ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14546	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 142 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Miodrag Djidić, Goran Knezevic, Sava Urosevic, Ksenija Milivojevic, Snezana Stojanović-Plavsic, Suzana Grubjesic, Ivan Zivadinović, Milorad Belic, Milisav Petronijevic and Milan Nikolic. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE PUBLICATION LAW AND THE EVISITATION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE IMPLEMENT(s)) I remind you that the National Assembly has suspended its work in the course of the review of the amendment to Article 10. The bill, submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here's a word from MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14547	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the proposal for a law on the recording of property, which should be returned through some of the future laws on restitution or denationalisation, is a political marketing or a simple distraction; Serbs from Kosovo have a nice sentence and say, "Take us to the Goles Mountain". The bill will not produce any effects, but is only the product of a pre-election promise to meet a part of the population, which is damaged. However, we need to see if today is the situation, whether the conditions are mature so that we can put a bill like this on the agenda. Of course not, because there are many problems that are bigger and more important than the adoption of such a bill. Instead of the Serbian government dealing with the fate of 250,000 violently expelled Serbs and non-Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija, trying to return them to their hearths and provide them with some kind of normal life, we are saying that we will return some property that was seized 60 years ago, which is currently a very bad move and has no effect, both for those people who are going to get that property and for these poor people who can't return to their hearths. Otherwise, let me remind you that the word Metohija came from the word "methoh", which means church property, so most of that land was church property. The question arises how will you implement this law and this proposal in Kosovo and Metohija and manage to return what was taken away 60 years ago to Serbs and churches, and you cannot advocate and use your position in power and to make a move through negotiations with the international community so as to enable Serbs who have been expelled from their hearth to return to their property. Here is Mr. Milovan Radovanovic's amendment, which requires that article 10 be deleted in the bill. The government has explained that the amendment is not accepted, because there is a commission that has conducted the recording of church estates. And the return of seized property to churches and religious communities will be arranged by some special law. So it's an inappropriate member and there's no need for him to stand in this bill. It is not possible to put into law members who will define some future conditions and futures by some new law. This is legally absolutely impossible and makes legal nebulism; this Article 10 will not oblige anyone, nor can it force anyone to pass a law in the future. If you were going to do something, and the Serbian radicals are against such a method of adoption, then a concrete law on restitution or denationalisation should be passed, and you should define what you promised in the pre-election campaign to a group of citizens who were really damaged. It's hard to pay back, because it's about $60 billion, and right now this country can't pay back. So, there should be conditions for work, for life, for Serbian citizens to be able to fill that budget, and only then, after that, to discuss such or similar drafts of the law. I would ask that this session be interrupted and the torture of parliament and citizens of Serbia and that the government come out with a proposal for a programme that will allow individual Serbian families, who have been left behind for five or six years without a roof over their heads, to return to the space of Kosovo and Metohija, and not to talk about such laws, under which, in a certain time, a year, five or ten, it does not matter when, something is done, which is quite the opposite of the purpose of this parliament itself that works here. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14548	I thank Mr. Kragovic. The word has the People's MP Stefan Zankov. Here you go, Mr. Zankov.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14549	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Article 10. The draft law on the application and registration of the seized property is fully in line with the whole text of this law, therefore, it is a complete nonsense. The only way to correct this is to delete this member, as suggested in the Serbian Radical Party's amendment. The promoter, or government, says in this article that the return of the seized property to churches and religious communities will be regulated by a special law. The first illogicality is in the very separation from the natural persons and others who were taken away from the property; the second, even greater, in the fact that in the law on the registration and registration of the seized property (which is therefore not the law on the return of property) you say that the return of the property to churches and religious communities will be regulated under a special law. Here you could simply say that the registration, the transfer of property will be regulated by a special law, and no return, because it's not the subject of this law. That's why we're practically on the fifth day trying to convince you to withdraw this bill, but it's for nothing that we're talking about when there's no government representative. Obviously, no one is interested in it except the citizens of Serbia, who recognize another Serbian government fraud. It is an attempt to deceive citizens of Serbia, and this is clearly seen in Article 8 of this law where it says that the submission of the confiscation of the property within the meaning of this law is not a requirement for the return of the seized property or the compensation for that property, but a condition that such a claim is filed in accordance with some special law, which will most likely be nothing. You are now registering property and forcing citizens to apply until 30 June 2006, but there is no guarantee anywhere, nor do you commit to propose and bring back the property law at all. You'll probably say that there are no funds in the budget because of the IMF's demands and similar ones, which we have to listen to, because we have to go, as you say, to Europe, as if we're now in Africa. It's more likely that in a year you won't be able to be in power and to suggest or adopt anything. How sincere you are in your intentions is the date you put into the first member of the bill, where you say this is about the property that was taken away after 9 March 1945. I ask the question - why is it not 4, 5 or any date before 7 March 1945 or why you did not include famous agrarian reforms, since you mention them here too, let's say King Alexander. Anyway, let's get back to Article 10, which is the subject of this discussion. In order to do something, there must be political will first. The Serbian Radical Party showed, just when the former minister of religion was a submission to the amendment, and this is about Mr. Milovanovic, how one way is helping churches and religious communities. That's what we'll do in the future, the first time we're in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14550	I thank you, Mr. Zankov. The word has a People's MP, Colic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14551	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported on the amendment of Serbian Radical Party MP Milovan Radovanovic. As the government has granted us the right to have any MPs to listen and to respect or disrespect their exposure, such a relationship with the bill and some possible decision by the Government of the Republic of Serbia that this law really applies in practice and that any damage, injustice, on any basis, is compensated for all those citizens of Serbia. I think that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Mladjan Dinkic themselves have a certain amount of impudence to go out with such an inapplicable law before the MPs of the National Assembly and in some ways deceive the citizens, and what the citizens themselves have noticed. Because, in addition to the great experience that I have as an MP for the SRS in many meetings of the National Assembly, when I left the National Assembly building, I saw something that made me happy, which is that the citizens themselves noticed the deception and that this law was wrong and was not worthy of attention, so the pillars of the National Assembly stuck to the posters with the title – a big scam, another big scam. So, an illusion is created, with a significant amount of impudence from the government of the Republic of Serbia and Mladjan Dinkic himself, who, in means of public information, says he should win the Nobel Prize for Economics, and I think he might rather get some ′′Oskara′′ for acting, because he pretends to work as a finance minister, something for the benefit of Serbian citizens. Maybe acting could be in some action thriller, a criminal movie about breaking into a bank, bank robbery, etc. This law certainly will not be applicable in practice, nor will the law on the prevention of violence in sport, which we have brought into one of the National Assembly’s vocations. We have all seen what happened at the Red Star derby and Partizan, and that one of the laws that the MPs of the Serbian Parliament have brought absolutely inadmissible in practice, is not in practice. These are laws that are pointless. I am one of the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party who visited Serbian citizens, Serbian villages in Kosovo and Metohija. Unfortunately, I have seen to it that the people of Serbia and our people, who had only one question for us, are being joined and poured into only one sentence – and what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing. They rely on state authorities, state institutions; unfortunately, it is only the voice of the crying in the desert. We have a Article 10 here – the return of the seized property to churches and religious communities will be governed by a special law, and then, in an explanation of the basic legal institutes and individual solutions, it says: ′′Article 10. It is envisaged that the return of the property to churches and religious communities will be regulated by a special law, which is assessed as a more comprehensive solution. ′′ In these few words – it is a more comprehensive solution – it is only now explained, only now will the citizens of Serbia trust someone. Absolutely, this government of the Republic of Serbia has nothing to expect; it looks like a wormy apple to me for which a storm does not need to bring it down, the first breeze will bring it down. We SRS MPs and the whole Serbian Radical Party with all their members will do everything to defeat only Serbian radicals in the next and future elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14552	I thank you, Mr. Cholic. The People's Messenger Rodoljub Gačević has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14553	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Orthodox Church has very well and carefully recorded assets that were temporarily nationalised and taken away. As far as restitution is concerned, there's no problem. However, the property of the Serbian Orthodox Church was primarily hit by the then communist authorities for several reasons. One of these reasons is the subjective mentality of the then Serbian politicians, who, in order to agree on the regime, primarily took away the property of the Serbian Orthodox Church. The property of other religious communities was less hit, as then Serbian politicians resented touching that property by fearing being attributed to them and not glued to the labels of large-scale Serbian nationalism, which was then the greatest sin, at least partic. Fearing all this, and knowing that even when the label of Serbian nationalism gets out, it remains a stain that puts a stop to political and political careers, for these reasons, they have not touched the expropriation of the assets of other religious communities. So the assets of the SPC were primarily under the hit. Some politicians of that time built their political career to defile the reputation of the Serbian Orthodox Church, i.e. clergy and monasticism. That's how it is, for example. A communist agent, today a senior official of the DS, and the center itself, to court the communist authorities of the time, in the '60s, in the Merdari of an unfortunate pope, almost tore him apart with his soul. Now, please, how is it possible to perform that restitution? So it's not just taken away property, it's taken away the authority of the Serbian Orthodox Church. Is there a way to restitution there too? That's what everyone needs to ask themselves, and certainly the Ministry, as well as how to restitution. On the other hand, is there more irony than when they are now being sold by rodeo riders in Merdari for large, prominent SPC guardians, or for large Democrats or human rights and freedom fighters? There's a lot of cases like that. The other day, when we Serbian Radical Party MPs visited Serbian schools in Kosovo, I was honestly surprised by the border of Kosovo already at Raska. Someone explained to me that the border came by estranged Serbian politician from the time, Petar Stambolic, to build a political career, and perhaps because of the Tassian relations and ties, alienated, or attributed a vast Serbian territory, which is about 66km from Raska to Kosovo Mitrovica, and introduced it into today's occupation borders of Kosovo and Metohija. So it's not just that he handed over Serbian monasteries, church possessions, but also huge Serbian territory. There are politicians like that. Such courtships were once politicians from the party scene, from the party stage of the communist party of then-Yugoslavia, or Serbia, and today there are worse ones. Therefore, the restitution should be carried out not only when it comes to church possessions but also other assets. First of all, I think of many exhibits of the Serbian Orthodox Church, which have been collected and handed over to some museums since then, and some have lost every lead. For their part, they are found in private collections of some individuals. It is therefore necessary to restitution and that form of property, i.e. those exhibits taken from the SPC Treasury.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14554	The word has a folk ambassador, Živadin Lekic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14555	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've been discussing this law for a few days now. I'll give you an example from the Young Man. The slaughterhouse in Mladenovac has its owner, Janko Bajak. The slaughterhouse was seized in 1947 immediately, and now it's being leased by Mile Damjanovic. He probably made a 99-year contract. In the situation in which we are now, if we pass this law that is not good, and the contract is made at 99 years, then by passing the law, the heirs of the slaughterhouse in Mladenov will have the right to seek the return of property, and they will not be able to recover the property because it was contracted for 99 years with Milo Damjanovic. So the law can't be implemented and it's not good. The law will damage one side: either Milo Damjanovic or the users, or heirs. So I'm not voting for this law. We have similar examples in Vojvodina. If we take the books, what's the situation down there, it's not good. I will not vote for this law, but for the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party I will, for all amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14556	Thank you. The word is by MP Vitomir Plužarević, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14557	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I support the amendment of our MP to Article 10 of this bill, and I believe that this amendment should be accepted by the parliamentary majority. The Serbian Radical Party has highlighted its position on this law; we are pushing for this law to be removed from the agenda and as such does not enter into the procedure to be adopted. This breaking of the law was also pointed out by MPs who do not belong to the opposition group, so we believe that he does not have a foothold in the ruling majority, but that he aims only to meet there some number that probably require of us those who approve of the Performance Study. We believe that this proposed law is not in line with the current political situation and we are against this and similar law because this law would do more harm than good. That's what we've been commenting on so far on many occasions. This law only seeks to dispel the existing DOS promise, i.e. small DOS. They promised to pay back the seized property, but they promised it so timidly, so that this law that is now on the agenda and stems from that promise. Why have they not returned so far, or why have they not done so when they have more than four years of age? They could have done it whenever they wanted, but they probably didn't find a consensus in that ruling structure before or even now, so this law is shy and proposing. This entry only wants an extension of that deadline that has expired according to all legal norms if we know that something by law goes out of date after 20 years. The European Union probably has nothing against this and similar laws, because their goal is not on the side of citizens, but their goal is to make the situation in Serbia the way it will best suit them, and that is waiting for something that will not be. This system of blackmail by the European Union is evident; they blackmail us daily and give us messages that suit them, and our citizens are only deceived by various colorful lies. With this amendment to Article 10, we propose that it be deleted and that this law should not be passed. We are against this law, because it does nothing, and it will not do anything by allegedly recording property. Well, that property is registered, and it's in our country's archives. What would we do again to form an agency for this area, so that we can hire another 1,000 people from the DOS majority and allow them to bridge their wishes across this bridge called the law on the recording of seized property? This provision of article 10 does not allow natural persons anything or the return of property. There is no law, no justice, no justice. Supposedly, you're insisting to return the seized church goods to a special law. Well, you weren't able, either you or that former government to do it. I received information from the historical reader and from the old people who told me that the Ustashas in 1941-1943 in Sreme robbed and took over 40 wagons of valuables and property (icons, frescoes, murals, iconos and all that was valuable in the monastery's treasures) in Zagreb. You never asked for it back. And now one example: in the last war, a Serb from Croatia exaggerated several mare of the Lipipian race and you raised the horses to the highest level of interstate talks, to return to Croatia. There are more of these examples, and they are also related to this bill. We've always given you information about Kosovo and Metohija. You know the situation there. There's our people in a new kind of group prison. They're on a new exam. As they will behave, so will the European Union in the future be able to rule those smaller nations for which it has an interest. We could not point out to you on this occasion the seized property of our citizens in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and in all those places where our Serbs left their hearths and their grants. This is where the European Union has done nothing so far. The rules are certain pilot systems through some NGOs, allegedly helping these citizens, but that's not enough and that's not enough for what they've suffered and what they've left as material goods in our grants.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14558	The word has been given by MP Milos Disic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14559	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the purpose of an amendment is to improve the law, if possible. It seems that these amendments by the Serbian Radical Party cannot improve the law, so the SRS suggests it withdraws from the procedure. We think it's the best solution to one of these laws. I support Mr Milovan Radovanovic's amendment to article 10. He's really not right, and he's trying to make a difference between the owners of the seized property, the land. I suggest that this amendment be accepted for the reason that it is just trying to fix the bad text of the law that is now on the agenda. As far as this amendment is concerned, the Serbian Radical Party has already said a lot about it, and as far as this law is concerned, the government should also listen to the SRS' stance and not make another mistake and allow all owners of the property to take equal part in this so that anything can be resolved under this law. The government has disobeyed the SPC by this law, where it did not predict the return of the seized property, and we know that the situation in Kosovo and Metohija would be far more favourable for Serbs, because it was in Kosovo and Metohija that the property of the Serbian Orthodox Church was taken away. It is being processed today, and bandits from Albania, or separatists from Kosovo and Metohija Albanian nationality, are doing whatever they want. That would make all the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija in a better position. If we know that the church never went past the people, but right next to its people, when it was celebrated – it was celebrating, when it was suffering – it suffered with its people, you should not have allowed this law to keep the Orthodox Church out of the law, because it is not appropriate and it is not right for you to do all of this in this way. Don't make a difference between owners with this law, don't make a selection, make a law that will be applicable to everyone. We're against this law, I have to point it out one more time, until the country strengthens, until it's able to do this without a problem. We are opposed to the poor filling the budget for which former rich people are returned to their property. This can only be done when the country strengthens, when our workers work, when our children go to school peacefully and when they finish everything and when they find a job. I thank you and suggest you accept the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14560	The People's Messenger Srjo Komazec has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14561	Dear Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, as the whole law is meaningless, so is a member of the 10th law on the application and registration of seized property. The other laws are not particularly, they have not been preceded by any laws, so this law is absolutely unnecessary. A small number of members of the assembly's majority took part in this debate, either in principle, or in the amendments; they all pointed out that it was necessary to know the exact value of the seized property, as if there were no record, and then to determine the dynamics of any return of property or any cash compensation. It's just a false fulfillment of pre-election promises. If there is a real intention to regain property, especially the church and other religious communities, then it can be done without this law, as did the Serbian Radical Party at the time of government. It is the churches in Kosovo, although the SRS's view that the Church and Serbian citizens share the same fate and that property should be returned on the same terms, but this is certainly possible in some later period, when existential issues of Serbian citizens are resolved. The reason for the law states that this is because of the removal of revolutionary injustice. And you're referring to morality, and everything you've done so far is more or less immoral. The delivery of Serbia's citizens to The Hague tribunal is so immoral and no matter what you do, you cannot remove that immorality. The best solution is to withdraw this law from the congregation procedure. Not only do SRS MPs think so, but also Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14562	The word has a folk ambassador, Prvoslav Savic. Mr. Sarovic, you've already called about this amendment, it's not possible twice. I'd like you to answer it five times, in five weeks, but it's not possible, you have to read the Rules of Procedure and remember that you've already called.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14563	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, by amendment to Article 10. The draft law on the registration and registration of the seized property of my fellow SRS MP, Milovan Radovanovic, tried both to give the government and your parliamentary majority the opportunity to show all possible enforceability of such a law, which in practice will not give Serbian citizens anything tangible, except that some new ruling structure may retake the seized property, because this power has no courage to tell citizens that vomiting is impossible after so much time, nor has the possibility of having that return carried out. Of course, in the pre-election campaign, all of you in the ruling structure promised citizens this, in our opinion, impossible return of property, so you want this bill to prolong it and to put the hot potatoes you took into someone else's hands, so let the other one burn with it. You know, like all the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, I'm aware that what we're saying about this bill doesn't interest you perfectly, but, gentlemen, we're not telling you because we know you're not listening, we're telling the citizens of Serbia who want to know what this bill is offering, or not offering. What is this law that does not offer a solution to how to return property to churches and religious communities, but rather to settle another law, as is in this Article 10? Because of this, I, as well as the other SRS MPs, urge the government to withdraw this bill from the assembly procedure, and this move shows Serbian citizens that at least partially care about their interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14564	The word has the People's Messenger Lazar Cavic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14565	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Milovan Radovanovic submitted an amendment to Article 10. Proposal for a law which provides for the erasure of the provision of Article 10 of this Act. Article 10 shows the senselessness of this law for a number of reasons. Article 10 starts with words – return of the seized property. For several days we have been discussing, both in principle and in particular, the proposal bearing the name – Proposal for a law on the registration and recording of the seized property. There is no mention of the return of property at any time, and this proposal does not treat the law in question. This bill should be a legal basis for the adoption of another law on the return of property to natural persons. In Article 10, it is said: ′′ The return of the seized property to churches and religious communities will be governed by a special law. I think, like all the MPs of the SRS who spoke about this subject, that this is your pre-election campaign, that this is your attempt to score political points. I hope the voters won't buy it, because you used the same methods in the previous elections. They promised to return the seized property, but in order to reduce the dissatisfaction of the voters who settled on their promises, they came up with this failed law that would only record the seized property. Will it be a realistic return of property to churches, which differs from the issues being treated and regulated by this proposal for a law on the registration and registration of property as a basic law? It is especially a question of which churches and religious communities these assets can return to. Would it be realistic to return to the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Roman Catholic or the Slovak Church, etc. Do you think a church or a religious community should be returned to the seized property? What legal act does that say? This law cannot regulate it, until the basic law on the recognition of churches and religious communities regulates the issue of existing historical and recognised churches and religious communities. The question arises as to how a member of the 10th law will eventually address the issue of return of property to churches and religious communities.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14566	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14567	You see, what was taken away in 1945 from the Serbian Orthodox Church and other churches that worked legally at the time and could be dealt with in some way. We made a few suggestions during this debate. Since the government has exercised these property rights over state property, it is authorised to have and can return it to one ordinary decision, as it was done in 1998. According to these texts, if Labus were in 1945 in power, it couldn't be restored. As you turn the news around, you saw this part of the coalition that loves money, where the money is Labus and Dinkic, though with the family. You see, article 10 is a very specific member. Why? Whoever had the idea to propose a law like this had a big problem about how something that could really be placed in three members to write it so that it looked as many as possible, at least 11 members, and then resorted to the system to write something that was positive in four or five members, which implies doing it and some right, and in six members what it wasn't, so we have six members explaining what this law wasn't. That is why this government will be remembered, because something like this in legal technique is avoided, an extremely specific member is placed for precision, clarifications, but this government had the need to define negatively five, six members, or to describe what this law does not apply. It would be almost like changing the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, and then in one article we say that this law does not apply to the sugar affair, "Erikson" affair, National Savings, Import and Export of Electricity, fuel with NIS. So all possible G17 plus affairs are excluded. In translation, that means Article 10. There's a shame here that you put religious communities and churches as some exception to compensate for the lack of provisions. So, tell the Prime Minister that if his government has an honest intention to return property to churches and religious communities, it can do so very effectively through the Republic Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia, where there is a record. It is only enough for the government to make one decision and to formally execute the return of those assets and to make it possible, in fact, for our monasteries that had the most in the possession of these immovable properties, pastures, meadows, forests and other immovableities. So it is possible to return relatively quickly, without any need to prescribe something by this law or by any future law. There's a much simpler procedure, because it's so-called. A civil legal person. It is an association, a legal person, and there is no possibility of any major problems and complications. Besides, you heard, in 1998 he was in Kosovo and Metohija... And when it comes out for this pay phone, when mentioning that part of our territory, everyone should say -- Kosovo and Metohija, because that's our real name, not just -- Kosovo. Cosmet is a communist creation, and Kosovo and Metohija are the real name, especially Metohija. You can see for yourself that there are many reasons why it is necessary to do so. Why did we propose to delete this member? Because the whole law is pointless. It is impossible to repeal the law by requiring only one member to be deleted. No, you need to delete everything, forget that someone once tried to record, report and regulate the reporting and recording of something that already exists, which is already regulated. You have a problem with the political decision regarding restitution, but that's your problem. When the time comes for restitution and for that future law of yours, then you will hear another argument. Since this law is pointless, it needs to be withdrawn from procedure, and religious communities can count on something to come back, but everything depends on the government, especially what can be returned because Labus was not in power at the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14568	National MP Branka Bosnjak, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14569	As an authorised representative for this item of the agenda, I would like to replicate because individual officials are mentioned, particularly in the Serbian government. I would like to remind the MPs who are discussing this point outside the agenda, that it will not contribute to this law being valid. I would like this assembly to establish a rule that when we discuss amendments, then we really discuss amendments and we discuss them. I would also like that, when certain parliamentary groups want to improve some of the laws do so in a way that can indeed result in the improvement of this law, and that is done by those who do not know it in this assembly, and also by the citizens who should know it, they do so by coming to the representatives of the government or the parliamentary groups who will eventually vote for it and then lobby and explain it. The way you're re-sitting from this pay phone is not a way to fix these laws. In order to get as high-quality a law as possible – and I really want this law to be such as to help citizens who have been unjustly deprived of property by many laws after World War II, and that we all get to the right law on restitution and denationalisation as soon as possible, and this is only the first step towards it – I believe that your discussion would be fruitful only if, by interpreting your amendments, we were convinced that they lead to some improvement of the law, and that we would come to a truly quality law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14570	National MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14571	Article 100(4) My predecessor didn't understand me very well. The Serbian Radical Party has submitted a large number of amendments; you should respect that, you do not have to respect. It seems offensive to us if you force us to chase the amendment into the G17 plus parliamentary group to lobby. We don't know how to lobby. Your party president knows how to lobby. Here's a full list of newspaper articles that he lobbyed as an opposition politician in 2000, lobbied, so the daughter got his name, allegedly, a scholarship, and was present at the signing of a contract. You're not asking us to lobby. We don't need to lobby, we need to respect the Rules of Procedure. We need to get involved in the work, to submit amendments, to expose our political views. Don't expect us to lobby by going upstairs more to G17 plus, asking them to adopt some of our amendments. No, we offer an argument as to why our amendments are good, quality and explain why it is necessary for this law to be withdrawn and to forget that this government has ever submitted it, because this law is an insult to everyone, both to the state, and to citizens who expect or feel that they have some right. We can't lobby with you. You're asking for someone to sign up again, name, last name and property, and these records exist with five competent state authorities. Just now, on the occasion of the amendment to article 10, I said very specifically that the government, literally, can return the property that has been seized by a feather move to religious communities and churches. But you won't, you want to lobby. We're not going to lobby with you. We don't have the experience of lobbying or receiving Danon's representatives at home or that sugar affair, the National Savings Room, or this Ericson affair. Don't make us do what you do. We're just letting the public know that that's not how it should be done. So at the end of the interpretation of the amendments that we submitted to Article 10, I said that religious communities and churches could count on something. Why? Well, Labus wasn't in power in 1945 and he wasn't taking it away. If he and Junior had taken away, you know what would have happened.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14572	We will proceed after the amendment to Article 10. People's MP Zivan Vladimirovic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14573	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thought I wouldn't report for the amendment, because the MPs of the SRS, after so many repetitions here, explained that this law is completely inapplicable and that one law should be passed on the return of property, the real law, which will really enable the return of property seized after 9 March 1945. I don't know why you listed that date. I wasn't taught enough to remember what an important date it was on March 9, 1945. But I did report on a specific case from Toplice. More specifically, the Aydanovac monastery, located on the Veliki Jastrepac municipality of Prokuplje, was taken away from property, thread, part of property and forest, which was privatised in the meantime. The question now is how will it be returned if it is ever returned. The amendment submitted by Milovanovic suggests that article 10 of the law be deleted. I don't understand why the property is separated and how the property will be returned to private owners, and in what way to churches. The law doesn't have to be passed. One law should be passed that will allow the return of property to all equally, not to separate private persons' property from the church's property.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14574	The word is from Ambassador Boban Vojnovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14575	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Milovan Radovanovic, an SRS MP, submitted an amendment to Article 10. Proposal for a law on the registration and recording of the seized property. In our amendments, we have made clear the reasons why this law is not good, as well as the many laws you have passed, and you have not thought about how destructive they are and what they will produce for the citizens of Serbia. This law has no legal basis, no constitutional basis. You don't know here, according to the current bill, who's exercising the right to register the seized property. In law, you're saying that the right comes from natural persons, heirs, legal followers, owners, etc. Why do you even treat persons, or entities that do not exercise such rights? What the proposer proposes -- that a special law will regulate the return of property taken from the Serbian Orthodox Church, is not acceptable to the SRS. If it was also a good intention of the promoter, then there can be no discrimination and delay the return of the seized assets of the SPC. It's, as we all know, a very valuable asset. Serbian citizens know that this is only one false promise, to create the impression that the current government intends to return the property, but it is not said here that it will return and within what time period. We also don't know whether the state can return that property that changed more owners and whether the state has the money to pay for what can't be returned. The Serbian Radical Party is against this bill because the state is poor and such a law would put us in a position for the poor in Serbia to fill the budget, from which former rich people would be returned property. Now that the country is in chaos, when every day more unemployed, when the state is harassing crime, you want to separate some of the budget and to bring it back to those who and then lived well. Today, we need to deal with far more serious problems in Serbia, impose more serious laws, not bring us back 60 years and create interference in the people. This law is absolutely pointless and we have convinced you for a few days, and this is also the opinion of a large number of Serbian citizens. Here you want one injustice, which has been done long before, to be replaced by one such injustice now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14576	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Suleiman Spaho.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14577	People's MPs, I support MP Milovan Radovanovic's amendment to Article 10, where it is said that the return of seized property to churches and religious communities is governed by a special law, which is an obvious fraud of the ruling structure. Because, taking into account the fact that more than one third of the property in Kosovo and Metohija belonged to the church, it is obvious that the task you received from the heads of the West is not to touch property in Kosovo and Metohija, and in Vojvodina half of it belonged to the folks before World War II, which means - Vojvodina's logs, and Kosovo and Metohija are not allowed to touch. It makes it clear that you will, at any cost, cause unrest in our province of Vojvodina. This bill itself is unacceptable, because you want to satisfy this group of people, and that's why you're causing major conflicts in the country. Also, it should be borne in mind that a large part of the property has been alienated in the privatisation process, making the situation even more complicated. As a member of the Muslim religion, I appeal to all MPs, regardless of party or religious membership, that we do not return to the past, that we do not rekindle the hatred that has already been forgotten. That is why we Serbian Radical Party MPs will not vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14578	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The word is made by MP Branko Rankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14579	Dear Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, as the whole law is meaningless, so is a member of the 10th Law on the application and recording of the seized property meaninglessly; as are other laws, previously, equally unnecessary. A small number of MPs from the congregation's majority took part in the debate on the principle and amendments. They pointed out that the exact value of the seized assets and that there was no recording; then, to determine the dynamics of the possible return of the assets, as well as the cash compensation. It's just a lie, keeping pre-election promises. If property is to be returned, especially to churches and other religious communities, then it can be done without this law, as did the Serbian Radical Party in the exercise of power, especially the church in Kosovo. Although it is the Serbian Radical Party's view that the church and citizens share the same fate, that property should be returned under the same conditions, it is certainly possible in a later period, when the existence and issue of citizens is resolved. The reason for the law states that this is because of the removal of revolutionary injustices, you are calling for morality. Everything you've done so far is more or less immoral. The delivery of Serbian citizens to The Hague tribunal is so immoral, no matter what you do, you cannot remove that immorality. The best solution is to withdraw this law from the congregation procedure. That's what Serbian citizens think, not just Serbian Radical Party MPs. I'll tell you something else about this law. I can't understand that the parliamentary majority is proposing a new law, and neither has the old one. It is known to all that in 1990 and 1991, the Law on the Return of Assets was passed from 1948 to 1953, and it is known that certain citizens were not returned to this day. That means neither the law that entered the procedure and which was returned is returned, and you want to return something, literally speaking, and you haven't finished the rest of the work, and you want to start a new job. So until one job is done, another job should never be started. And thus, the Serbian Radical Party and I, as an SRS MP, will not support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14580	Thank you, Mr. Rankovic. Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14581	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on article 141. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, as referred to in Article 11. The draft law on the application and registration of seized property was submitted by the amendment, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, MP Momir Markovic. This amendment provides for Article 11. The bill is deleted. Why? Much has been said in previous days in the debate, both in principle and in the discussion of details. I think that all those who listened carefully to what the Serbian Radical Party MPs said could understand that it was a law that did not really deserve to be found in legal traffic, not on the eighth day after the vote, but at any time. This is a law that neither the representatives of the ruling parties nor anyone else could find any kind word. This is a law that will not be applied at any time, a law that, if ever applied, will not give any right to anyone to whom property has been seized under any law that was passed 50 or 60 years ago. For all of this, it would be best if this law was not passed. I cannot truly understand this tenacity with which the ruling coalition insists that this law be passed, even though they themselves have expressed themselves in the worst possible sense about this law. It is particularly interesting (I asked for an answer to that and the other day, but I did not get it) that we were finally through this letter from the Government of Serbia, which accepted two amendments to the proposal of this law, informed that for the representatives of the Government were designated and Mladjan Dinkic, who did not even appear in this parliament, and Milan Parivodić, the minister of economic relations with abroad, who came here, said that he did not agree with it and afterwards, no longer appeared for the next few days during the debate. There is no one here now to answer what is meant, and it is very interesting that this amendment to Article 5, which is accepted and which introduces the obligation of the Republic of Serbia's Property Directorate to issue a certificate of property registration no later than 7 days after the date of application. Were you going to say that this recording will have some constitutional fact, would it create a certain right for the applicant and, of course, on the opposite side of a particular obligation for the state? We really don't know. It would be very good for you to tell us, before there is a vote on this law, what is meant by the recording of property. Will the Republic of Serbia's Property Directorate be obliged to carry out any checks on citizens following the citizens' submission, will this be possible within this seven-day period? I certainly don't think they will, first because they're not supposed to be more than three million dinars to enforce this law. You will, of course, admit that this is a minimum amount, if it is taken into account that the property that has been seized is of exceptional value and that it is located in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia and that it will be an extremely large business and will collect these applications at all, rather than subsequently carry out the recording, or carry out an assessment of the value of the seized property. It's unclear what nature these issued certificates have. Whether, as we have already heard, this certificate will enable them to take a mortgage, or whether this recorded property will be mortgaged, who will have the right. In the end, it can be said that this law is what it is, a law that only takes away the rights of certain categories of the population, i.e. some legal persons, companies, religious communities and churches; that this law only tries to cover those promises that you made in 2000 and 2003, in some way, but that neither essentially nor substance to this law... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... They don't give anyone any rights. Although this, as you yourself said, is only a procedural law, which regulates the process of recording property, it contains a number of material provisions. You give these procedural and technical laws, in fact, certain restrictions and you deny, possibly in some future law, which you claim will be passed, rights to certain categories of population. For all this, I suggest, if there is any reason in the ruling coalition, that you withdraw this law, and if not, that you vote for all amendments to the SRS and ultimately against the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14582	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. The word has been issued by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic, who reported on the occasion of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14583	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if the legislator, who changed on two occasions, as well as co-workers from the ministry, wanted to follow a five-day debate, which in principle, which in particular, which will obviously continue throughout the day, could have accepted something from the argument we made and that, in the end, if the debate on ten members of the law, by coming to Article 11, he understood that the law could still be withdrawn from the procedure. This way, however you concentrate or not, or by pressing for or against the vote on amendments, when you reach the Article 11 on which the amendment was submitted by Mr Momir Markovic, which is that he is deleted, or that this law never comes into force, do so, if you want to show the citizens of Serbia – and especially those you deceived in the pre-election campaign, by promising them that you will return, and quickly, take away property – and to yourself, and to those deceived voters, that this was not really your authentic intention, and that this is a quasi-legal project, a kind of polling that means nothing. If you think about Article 6 and the deadline until which the property is registered, or if you return to Article 10 or to the first member of the law, you can see that it is in itself contradictory and that it is not at all in line with our Constitution or with the legal framework in force in Serbia. This law can't even be applied. And by the way, you've seen everything you've tried to tell us in favor of this law being good, and many of you have given up any persuasion, because you didn't have counterarguments, it doesn't stand. The changed promoter, Minister Parivodic, who flew in instead of then absent Dinkic, and he himself understood in explaining the law and trying to praise him as the government's authorised representative that he doesn't make any sense. You must understand that in Serbia today, there is a much more important situation that plagues citizens of Serbian nationality living in the southern Serbian province, that it is much more important that people do not have jobs and that they are extremely difficult to live on. Months pass, you used both last week and last week to send citizens allegedly positive messages because of so-called. Studies on feasibility and that will bring prosperity to Serbia. When you talk about the European and other integrations that you're promoting so much here, then tell us how you're going to implement it, one of these laws that has no constitutional basis, and you say and you promise those who end up with the highest legal act that you're going to respect this one now valid. You promised them you'd bring a new constitution, so you saw that it wasn't working and that it couldn't do without Serbian radicals. As much as you're meeting or combining one or the other, it just can't. So today it is clear that the voters will believe us – and it is not only for pre-election and propaganda purposes, but it is the essence of the difference between us and you – much more to believe, because we were never inclined to send negative messages and to make false promises. As I, as one of the members of the SRS, explain this amendment to Mr. Momir Markovic today, tell the citizens of Serbia that it is difficult for them to ever be returned to them and that Serbian radicals have never promised it for reasons that it is impossible for them to carry out it correctly and that at one point one historic injustice is corrected after 60 years, so it is clear that all this will come to their own and that at the moment of decision-making at the future of the election they will no longer believe you and those empty promises. It's not enough that you just show up with a political pamphlet or a program that's inconclusive and try something like this, like this quasizacon, to offer it to the National Assembly, or the public, and to say, well, we're done. (President: Time. Here I go. No, because business can't be done this way. That's what those of the Private Property Protection League and the various other associations, who have been representing this wrong attitude for all these 15 years about this kind of return of property, have been lying and deluding. This is not the way to work with a people who want and expect responsible and moral politicians to keep their word or to carry out what is set out in their programmes. This was never part of the Serbian Radical Party programme. We never had this courtship towards those, no matter how many hundreds of them, who wanted it from those who expected to come to power. We simply tried to explain to them, as you do, that it is impossible to carry out in this way, that is, through this initial kind of polling, the return of property. That's why I'm absolutely inclined to believe that in view of this kind of thinking and attitude of the SRS, those of you who expected it, with our view so open... (President: six minutes and 45 seconds, thank you. )......................................................................................................... Here, I'm finishing up, because of our other programming goals in the next election to vote for the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14584	Thank you. Please, the word has been made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Nedeljkovic, on the occasion of the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14585	Dear People's MPs, the SRS is not for this law to enter into force on the eighth day of its publication. We're about to stay out of the way at all. We have spoken extensively about the reasons for these last days, but it is an opportunity to address citizens once again and to reveal the true nature and the real reason for the application of this bill. What's this about? Today's ruling parties, when they were opposition, when they needed to attract as many supporters and potential voters as possible, promised to correct, among other things, all injustices, the correcting of all "guilty Drins". Now it's time for them to have to start to fulfill, at least formally, at least on paper, at least declaratively, manifestually, what with the promise of return of property taken away 60 years ago. This authority is now being pressured by the awakened hopes of the heirs of those families who have indeed been taken away in a large number of unjustly. The Serbian Radical Party also when it was at its beginning and when it needed new voters and supporters to act wisely, statelylyly far-reaching and never promised such a thing, knowing that it is not possible to correct injustices against individuals, at least in this particular case, without doing great harm to the state. Therefore, between the interest of individuals and the interest of the State of the SRS is defined for the interests of the State. We feel nothing less than you, and we do not think that many individuals, many families in Serbia, have been seriously wronged in the past. What I think is particularly hypocritical of this government, is that they are now verbally seeking to correct the injustice, to return the seized property, and at the same time, under this authority, and under the previous one, there are many, much greater injustices. We are now in favour of the state returning property to the family -- heirs 60 years ago, and today an intensive process is under way to take property away from the vast majority of Serbian citizens. The factories were taken away, virtually all social assets were taken away; millions of small shareholders were severely damaged. Now how do you explain that sentimentality, that compassion with those who were taken away 60 years ago, and now completely brutal and insensitive is taking away even more property. The fact that formal assets are now not taken away by specific individuals is essentially not changing anything. And when the factory is kidnapped, when sold for depravity, when commissions are taken, when small stockholders' actions are confirmed – it is also taking away private property. So, 60 years ago, she was taking the state, using some privileged, newly created rich people -- politicians, and now this property is taking a small number of tycoons, and we can see now, i.e. Those who have eyes to watch, that during the night a class of those individuals and families were created to move almost an entire social wealth. This government has absolutely no legitimacy and moral credibility to correct historical injustices. This government is bound to prevent today's injustices. We are absolutely aware that this government cannot do this. Some next government will be obliged to correct the injustices that this government is doing, which, I repeat, are far greater and greater than the injustices that were committed 60 years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14586	The word has the People's MP Vojislav Milajić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14587	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the bill of this law tries to correct the injustice that was done to some people 60 years ago. But the big question is whether all were wronged. There are people who are justified, through confiscation, property seized, who were war criminals, the Quislins -- associates of the occupation forces during World War II. There are also cases where the confiscation was done uncritically, through agrarian reform, through expropriation, where the property was taken away without compensation or with some symbolic fee. There was also the seizure of apartments, private enterprises and the like, through the Nationalisation Act. During a time of 60 years, however, injustices that have been done can hardly be corrected. Only new injustice can be done by breaking the burden of nationalisation and restoring property to future generations, which should pay off that debt made by some communist, revolutionary government. The law itself is not well-conceived. This can be seen from the unmistakable explanations of the applicant’s representative, i.e. Minister Parivodic, who explained the bill's proposal at the start of the debate on the law, presented arguments that this law, among other things, should be passed and that this law should consolidate property rights. That term is, right to tell you, unknown in legal theory, and it's not easy to understand. What does that mean – consolidation of property rights? The right of property either exists or does not exist, cannot be consolidated. He also referred to historical reasons that led to the confiscation of assets using the term – revolutionary democracy. These two concepts exclude each other; neither revolution can be democratic nor democracy is established through revolution. He also used the term that this law would ensure reconciliation between citizens and the state. It's absolutely unclear how this state will come to terms with the citizens through this law and I don't know who argued with this country that it should calm down, or that citizens and states should be at peace. The great illogicalness of this law is also that the recording of assets is made possible by all natural persons. So, it's uncritical that all natural persons can absolutely record their assets, with special laws being subsequently passed to determine the right to return, so, among other things, the SPC is excluded. The possibility was left for a special law to restore the seized church property and property of religious communities. However, in Article 3. The bill explicitly states that only natural persons submit the records, and the religious communities and the church, as far as I know, are not natural persons, so it is completely unclear that they will file an application for their property. This leaves the possibility that everyone can file for a record, whether justified or unwarranted. In a direct conversation with the Proposer's representative, I came up with information that they left it on purpose and that there will be between 200 and 300,000 applications, and that these laws, which will be subsequently passed for the return of property and natural persons and religious communities, will make certain restrictions, in terms of citizenship above all. It is now completely unclear why this has not been done now in this law and why this law does not impose restrictions on persons who can apply for registration. The law has many shortcomings that could be adopted, and this is evident from the fact that the representatives of the motions, or the representatives of the government, are not sitting in this assembly building, nor have any of the MPs of the ruling coalition taken the floor and participated in this discussion to defend this bill. I think the MPs themselves, as well as the promoter, are convinced that this legal project is not good and should have been brought in a different form than was proposed. We believe it is necessary for the ruling coalition to consider when voting on this legislative proposal, and the SRS will certainly vote against this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14588	The People's Messenger Ivan Radic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14589	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, amendment to Article 11. The bill on registration and registration of assets submitted by Serbian Radical Party MP Momir Markovic is fully logical and follows all of those amendments submitted by the SRS MPs. I think that the debate, which has been going on for five or six days, has fully confirmed all the senselessness of this bill. The reason for my opinion is that this also gives me the fact that, after the first day of the debate, Mr. Parivodic partly agreed with the remarks of the Serbian Radical Party MPs, and then he fled from this hall in an unknown direction and has not appeared until today, so that his example would be followed by the other MPs of the ruling majority, and there were no more. So, all the reasoned criticisms of this bill, presented by the SRS parliamentary group, MPs of the ruling majority couldn't or simply didn't want to deny it, nor to defend this bill, probably themselves aware of its senselessness and its inappropriability. Since we're in the finish line, we're meeting with the last member, it might not be a bad idea to recapitulate what's been going on over the past six days. What exactly is this about? It is a completely pointless proposal, a law that cannot be applied, a law that is full of contradiction, paradox and legal illogicalness. I think that MPs of the ruling majority are aware that this is about one political pamphlet, that it is about throwing dust in the eyes of Serbian citizens who have become aware themselves that this is just one story that needs to distract the public and citizens of Serbia and to draw their attention from far more important issues. Citizens became aware of this, and after the second day of the debate, groups of citizens gathered outside the National Assembly protesting against one of these laws. If it is already about the registration and registration of the seized property, as it is said here, then it is completely unclear why you restricted its application only to the natural persons, why you have excluded property (so it is not about the return, but about the recording of property) from the property of the religious communities, which has already been debated about the previous member of this law. The problem is becoming larger, I mean the property of the Serbian Orthodox Church in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, which was unfeelingly taken away after World War II, parceled and given to the Shiptars for use. And how do you plan to enforce a law like this, or law that provides for the adoption of a special law on recording, of a new one. But there's a lot more paradox, there's a lot of illogicalness, and its inapplicability tells us that it's impossible to determine the legitimacy of the heirs, which you yourself were talking about, that it's impossible to determine the legitimacy of the property. You gave it to a state-owned institution that has no jurisdiction at all to register the seized property. There's a lot of things that don't make sense in this law without talking about the universal period, I mean 20 years. It is clear, therefore, that one such bill neither has legal nor constitutional grounds to be brought in, and that is why we of the SRS parliamentary group are fighting. What is put to us as an observation and what many ask us is: why did you work against the return of the taken property? I think that's easy to explain. It is absolutely impossible for one historical injustice, which is evident, to correct, and not at the same time to do injustice to another and it is absolutely impossible to damage all those who are damaged during that time period. You can return property, a piece of land, if it's taken away from some physical person, but how do you think you're going to damage the families of those who lost their heads during that dark communist dictatorship? Is their victim smaller, so you didn't even try, or is it something else? I think it's something else, as I said at the beginning of the exhibition, about a purely marketing trick of the ruling set, about the desire of the authorities to turn the story around on some irrelevant subjects and that the MPs have been distracting us for a week now with such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14590	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14591	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's clear to me that Mladjan Dinkic, as an authorised representative of the government, didn't come today, I hear he went to some Virgin Islands, something wrong with his account. I also have an understanding for Vice President Labus, because I hear he and Ericson had some meetings, too, so he couldn't attend, but at least some deputy assistant, or whatever his name was, the one who was here two or three days ago, so here they tell me, the deputy deputy assistant who was already here, and now he's gone. In any case, by submitting this amendment, I wanted to give the Serbian government an honorable exit from a project that was quickly and absolutely unprepared by passing a bill that had absolutely no purpose. I wanted to adopt this amendment by the Serbian government in a painless and unheardable manner to give up on this. I have submitted an amendment to Article 11 which states that the law will enter into force on the eighth day of the day of its publication. I asked that member to be deleted. Apparently, consultations in the government (at least that part of the government that is here in Serbia and which is not in its accounts) are not completed, so that the government's position on this amendment, other than the attitudes that I was told there in that proposal, is not complete; therefore, the government continues to insist on passing a law that does not mean anything at all. I spoke several times from this pay phone – if they wanted a record taken from the property, they have it in the Serbian Archives, in the archives of local self-government, at least 10-15 seats. They wanted to bring confusion into the people that this law would bring something back to someone; I think that intention was read, because the owners of the seized property were standing here, and if you had the opportunity to read the passwords, you know what it was about. I believe that in voting day, the Assembly should adopt this amendment and that will be the most painless way for the government of the Republic of Serbia to get out of this. I think that by registering that once taken away property, and especially by Article 10 where you said - the church will be recorded in particular, and then we will especially think, possibly, if the law is ever proposed, it does injustice first of all to the Serbian Orthodox Church. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you know that Metohija is an excerpt from the word ′′metoh′′, which means a monastery estate, a monastery land, a monastery, etc. This means that you are ready to write down two-thirds of the countries in Kosovo and Metohija belonging to the church and attribute it to those who are using it now, who have, along the way, expelled almost a whole Serbian animal from Kosovo and Metohija. If you already wanted to propose such a law, then why didn't you say – about records and vomiting? Some people are lucky to the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party and ask why we are against vomiting. It's not about vomiting at all, it's about taking back the fat taxes from these people, so Mladjan Dinkic will again boast that his budgets are full, that there are no more budget shortages in the budget he had, now he's covered in fissalization, intruding, kidnapping, and here he is going to cover this. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest you adopt only this amendment in the voting day, and then we'll settle everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14592	The People's Messenger Rodoljub Gačević has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14593	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we Serbian radicals are aware that this law is more or less inapplicable and that it is mostly written for promotional purposes, and whether it will be written to take effect on the eighth, 15th day or perhaps never. I would say, as far as the law is concerned, that the laws have not been in force here for a long time, but the ruling coalition has entered into force. They are aware that they have the necessary majority, though narrow, but the necessary majority to pass laws in such a way does not care much about amendments to the Serbian Radical Party, which is trying to fix as much as possible through amendments to such laws. This wouldn't be the only law that's practically inapplicable. There are laws like this before, especially passed during DOS, siasses. The only thing that's weird is why it doesn't first approach the constitution as the basis of all the laws, then legal projects and many laws, so it's more and more like that ′′The People's Anthem′′ or ′′Juhahu′′ written by Uncle Jova Dragon, which we used to study at school. I'm just wondering, and I don't know how long we're gonna be obedient to Juttuns.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14594	The word is made by MP Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14595	Dear MPs, the amendment of MP Momir Markovic is the most important amendment, because during all these days, from the principle debate to the debate on amendments, it is clear to all, and to the MPs of the ruling majority, and to the citizens of Serbia, that this is not a law, that this is one technical instruction that could be issued through the government's regulation and the corresponding ministry of the Republic of Serbia. But the attempt to deceive citizens who are heirs or descendants of those to whom the property was seized failed. Minister Dinkic's behaviour, including his deputy Parivodic, clearly says they were not allowed to come and defend this law. The law isn't. Even Albianic, as head of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, did not appear to defend the minister's law from his party. Mr Dinkic, as finance minister, should have proposed that the 2004 budget be implemented on the agenda in front of parliamentarians. This is much more important, to lay down accounts, what happened in the 2004 budget spending. He also pledged to rebalance the budget by the end of March 2005, boasting that the introduction of VAT would be an excess of the planned budget for 2005, so that the rebalancing would satisfy many objections or demands made by MPs, particularly the SRS, in terms of the agrarian budget and on the funds to be returned to municipalities under the Law on the return of funds to municipalities. He firmly promised it here, that at the end of March a budget rebalance will be proposed and amendments and additions to the Law on the return of funds to municipalities and that MPs will discuss it. They have nothing of the citizens of the Kingdom municipality from many false promises made by the Minister of Capital Investments. He was almost in the Kingdom and with the leaders of the local government of the democratic bloc in the King only offered capital investment, aid in financing the ′′Living downhill′′ river Ibar from Maglich to the King. In addition, he generously promised to assist the Ministry of Capital Investments, that a toilet in Maglich would be built for the participants of the "Merry Downhill". He didn't even mention a bypass around the Kings, a bridge on Ibra, but they know the citizens of the Kings and the entire municipalities that are the problems of traffic in the city and around the city, without talking about a water supply problem that has been present for decades for all residents of the city and suburban settlements. There have been many frauds and attempts, allegedly, to solve this water supply problem: also through the Water System "Grave", and the DOS leaders who came after October 5th with a project called "Lopatnica", and now it includes Velja Ilic to try to catch funds from the municipality of Kraljev, if possible from the Republic of Serbia, for the system "Rzav", which is unable to finance from the Čačak municipality, to provide the funds through the Kings and this difficult problem of water supplying the King's abuses. They used to speak and try to deceive citizens, there are many injustices that are obvious, so I will give only one example: many who have been singled out for housing contributions for decades have not received apartments or loans to build their family homes. It was misused by the Liberal Party, the "black sheep" Mihajlovic; it gave false hope to those people who have allocated funds for decades, and it is never said from which funds they will be able to compensate for the funds that these workers have allocated to the housing fund. Because of what has been said so far, I expected Minister Dinkic to come here and give the final word, as he has always done when it comes to the draft law in front of the finance ministry, but there is no courage or strength, but we hope that one day he will have to come here to the assembly, in front of the MPs, to face, face to face.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14596	It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14597	Dear People's MPs, we've been discussing one rather long, according to us Serbian radicals, a pointless law. As our MP Momir Markovic has suggested, we believe that Article 11 should be deleted and thus fully devised of this law. If a man wanted to give some of the characteristics of this law yet, it would surely be one law that serves propaganda and is a demagogue law entirely. We have witnessed laws being passed for the sake of the law before in the congregation. We've seen inapplicable laws being passed. Let me remind you, one of the MPs from the Serbian Radical Party has told you that the Law on the prevention of conflict in stadiums is inapplicable; vandalism happens and serious injuries to our citizens on our sports grounds and stadiums. One such law is also the Law of Conflict of Interest. Today in the country of Serbia, you have so many violations of conflict of interest and of this law that we could discuss here all day. But that doesn't bother anyone. Next, we have some bad bill proposals here, and I'm just going to remind you of the drug and medical law that was brought in last year in this assembly. Just to ask you what the drug situation is today, are there any illegal drugs on our market, how many of these drugs are on our market, and is there any order in this government? The best answer you can answer yourself if you read what our daily presses say. All I'm saying is that Chief VMA shows up on TV and says that the pharmaceutical mob is threatening to take his life. When all this connects, you can see for yourself what kind of laws we're making here, and we always want to say that these are reform laws, that they're great laws. Furthermore, what is typical of all of our laws, including this – in no social area where laws have been passed so far, you have not received the first analysis of the situation. The analysis of the situation should make a proposal for some policy to be advocated by our assembly or government, and should then pass laws. We here by law want to reform all areas of social life – one wrong path, which does not know Europe and modern developed countries. We got an absurd proposal and then it's logical to have an absurd debate. It's not an accident. This has been deliberately thrown here, so that we do not deal with serious, important problems affecting this country, economic problems, privatisation problems, which goes in the way it goes, of course, with corruption and violations of the law; so that we do not deal with Kosovo and Metohija, which is a burning problem and is forced to be resolved this year or in the next period. Furthermore, not to deal with health problems in the right way, and in health, corruption flourishes. This is what foreigners tell us today, not only tell us our newspaper and that we have personal experience when we go to the doctor and we have to ask for medical help. Furthermore, it is interesting that this assembly will never be interested, and neither will the Serbian government, as human rights in The Hague are violated by one representative of our party - Mr Vojislav Seselj. No one can think of proposing a resolution, that this parliament and this state raise their voice against the flagrant violations of human rights that are now taking place in The Hague. That's very interesting. What else is very interesting? It is an interesting relationship between the proposings, the cowardly relationship, not to go before parliament and not to defend what is proposed. It is a manner that has been demonstrated here for days and Parliament has been silent and suffering, one such humiliation by the promoter. It must be understood in the division of the social government what the legislative authority is, what the executive power is, and what the role of the judiciary is. If Mr. Minister thinks he's above Parliament, that's his personal position. Parliament must also have an opinion on whether it is okay. At the very end, no one is satisfied with this law. They are not satisfied with the allegedly damaged people who demonstrate before this House. The legislator's own delegate says they're not the happiest solutions. The most numerous parliamentary group in this parliament, the Serbian Radical Party, also says this is wrong. You guys keep your mouth shut. No, it goes on your conscience. The citizens see it, the citizens estimate it and the prices. There's one problem that I'm going to end up with, which absolutely doesn't stand. You say radicals are obstructing this debate in the Assembly. No, the irresponsible government and irresponsible minister are obstructing by continuing to pursue an absurd and unnecessary law. That's exactly the truth. You've prepared the citizens of Serbia for a rye, there's no rabbit anywhere, and then you want us to say it's okay and let us agree on that and miss it for you. We don't miss it and tell Serbian citizens from this place what you're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14598	The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14599	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbian Radical Party MP Momir Markovic has tabled an amendment to Article 11, requiring the removal of this member. As MPs of the Serbian Radical Party have so far asked for the withdrawal of this law in their discussions on all amendments submitted, this amendment to article 11. There's no point in passing a law like this, which is, in fact, a hoax and a citizen and an institution that has been taken away from property. This law should not exist in our legislation. It's very bad, inapplicable and can have inconceivable consequences for the country. By deleting Article 11. The assembly would be fenced in the most effective way from the government's proposal, which did not come across support from citizens who were deprived of property and who protested several days ahead of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The legislator, the government's representative, on the first day of the debate himself was not certain of the effectiveness of the application of this law. That is why he no longer appeared in the National Assembly Hall, in the manner of former representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who, after showing their bill, soon leave the Assembly Hall and no more MPs have seen them since. Almost no one has tried to defend the law of the congregation's majority; and those who tried to explain something have made it even more confusing for themselves and their political parties. Also, this amendment by MP Moma Markovic to article 11 should also be supported because of a very important fact. This law is partial. You're making a difference between taking away property, say, the property of church and religious communities and other assets. The law applies to everything equally, or it's gone. You will soon put pictures of the objects and the persons to which the law applies in certain members of your future laws. By erasing this member, first of all, the harassment of citizens who will have to break the thresholds of many institutions to record something already recorded. Whether this law will be a real obligation for the government of the Republic of Serbia or only a pro-form law because of the European Union and the feasibility study remains to be seen. The government is dealing with these impossible laws, instead of dealing with the actors of the Erikson affair, the sugar affair, the affair with the Fiat vehicles, etc. That's why government support is seen through daily polls, which you can read in the papers. Neither who can assume in the Serbian government how much Serbia will cost possible implementation by radicals of an inconclusive, lawless, or who is trying to see the ultimate amount needed to settle damaged citizens and institutions. Consider, fellow MPs, about Vojvodina, that it should not happen that the Serbian colonists are thrown out of their homes because of the folksdojcere, whom you will generously return the property, because you will not have the money in the state register for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14600	Thank you. The word is made by MP Branislav Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14601	Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for a law on the application of the seized property and a member to whom Mr Momir Markovic, MP of the Serbian Radical Party, has been discussed on the date since the application of the seized property, which says this member is being deleted, is another warning from many we have heard so far from the Serbian Radical Party MPs. I mean, the whole law, like most of my colleagues said, is pointless and scandalous. I want to say another example: I had a chance 15-20 years ago to meet a man from Koceljeva, who showed me a land of maybe 200 hectares and told me that the owner of that country had become one man, by expanding his property by forcing him to take away from people who didn't want to sell him that property, physically forcing them to do great damage to those people. So whoever stood up had to be eliminated. It's a picture from those ancient times, which is what I'm trying to say to all of you people you want your property back. Of this man, the owner of this great property, 15 years ago, there is only one old grandmother left, which means there is no heir who could claim the country's return. There are practically two villages on that surface now. I see here that there is no representative from the Ministry to defend this bill. Mr. Dinkic received a ban from his boss, Mr. Labus, because he has "a short fuse" and comes very quickly into controversy with Serbian Radical Party MPs, and then causes additional problems for both his party and his government. Therefore, he simply must not be in the first benches in the future, where he should be. If we were to confiscate the land in this modern age, the present situation, clearly, Mr. Karic, Labus, Dinkic and newly-compromised DOS richers, we would certainly have a lot to do with exotic islands to take away, and here in Belgrade itself and beyond Serbia. That's why I'm saying this law of yours is pointless. This is said by the very reaction of this people, their opinion is already known in the public, so I am the project of this proposal certainly has no meaning, concept and reality, which is why we should return that taken property. Fortunately, a small number of people are damaged, those who need to be returned to the country, compared to a large number of those who would now be harmed if denationalisation and return to the country were carried out. That is why we, MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, are explicitly against such a bad proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14602	Thank you. Before I set a break, one announcement: a session of the National Assembly of Serbia's Legislative Committee will be held at 14.15 a.m. on the ground floor. I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14603	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. Please, before the start of the afternoon session, we'll determine the quorum. I understand we have a quorum to work with. We continue to work on the amendment to Article 11 submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic. Alexander Djordjevic is not here. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14604	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment to article 11, which was submitted by our MP Momir Markovic, gives you the knowledge, he guides you and he takes you where you do not want to go. We know, your wishes are desolate and invaluable. This amendment does not allow this bill to live in eight days, we know that it will not live after 88 days, or after 888 days, because in 100 days you will have to call an emergency election. You won't be able to, and you won't even be allowed to answer the question of what to do next with Kosovo and Metohija. It will be easier for you to react in the "we are not from here" manner, and to solve this issue by someone else, and we will surely resolve Serbian radicals. We know, Serbian radicals, how this property has been taken away in the past. We know that then the government and the state have made a historic injustice against our citizens, but that's the way it is in your life; when you cut a plant in your head multiple times it's biologically weak and it's starting to dry. What I was going to say with this example, you draw a conclusion from that. Do you know how much we would deal with this law in the future, do you know how advanced these families are now, do you know that the current government can't even monitor the basic salaries of civil servants? Do you understand that? What happens when we get the IMF and the banks we owe? It's just details without which the government can't go any further. For three days, we've been bidding on who's going to hit the wire and the wire snap and this law is found somewhere out there like a cracked string on a prim. This law is quasizacon. This law has not been supported seriously by anyone from the government, and it has not been followed since the start of the work of this congregation. They know in the government that he's not good and that they're ashamed to say anything in his defense. We've been telling you that you need to return, and we're making a point now, all of our property to our Orthodox Church in Kosovo and Metohija, but you're still using your wings sent to you by your employers, so there's nothing there. Since I am an MP from Srem, I know everything that was in that part of Serbia, I know how our peasant suffered after the war, I know that our families were taken away by plates, forks, spoons, horses and drawers, fat pigs, vineyards and orchards; we know that heads fell at that time, that many did not even return from prison. We all know that, and we know that now you and the like of the law cannot compensate for the damage and ease the pain for this seized property. You just irritate the old wounds, and you know, when the old wounds leak, they hurt more than those first wounds. What you're doing, what you need now, aren't you aware that this law is just a fraud and a lie? You know that the property in Croatia is our people's property, so there's no time distance past, shut up, you're not doing anything. Why? You know that property in Bosnia is our people's property, you pretend to be ignorant, and you do nothing about it. Why? I saw from the train of the wrong furrow and the uncomplicated plow in the fields of our Serbs in villages along the railway in Kosovo and Metohija. Whoever's plowing their fields, go down to Kosovo and Metohija and see that, and say here in Parliament that you're up for it and that we're going to fight together for our fields in Kosovo and Metohija. Is that the mineral treasure that the English paid us for concessions we now give there to some people who have descended from Albanian virtues? It's not the subject of this law, but he's deeply connected to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14605	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14606	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have become accustomed in this House to any proposals from the Government of Serbia, which are translated, mostly poorly, and every time you have passed bad laws, we Serbian radicals have warned you, distracted you, and in principle debate and through amendments, with a truly sincere desire to pass a law that is applicable and benefiting the citizens of Serbia, because that is why we are here, as well as the Government of Serbia. Every time you didn't accept our suggestions, it happened that a few months after the law was passed, you understood and you accepted that we were right and that the law really couldn't be applied. Then you mostly went to the amendments and additions to those same laws, and each time in those amendments and additions, you implanted what we warned you about during the debate on some law. When it comes to amendment to Article 11, where counterpart Markovic asked to delete this member, the government's argument states that the amendment cannot be accepted because this member, in accordance with the constitution, must exist in law. I'll tell you that this is the only member of this bill that really is in accordance with the Constitution. It is true that when passed at the National Assembly, the law must be published in the Official Messenger, after a certain number of days, or eight days, under the Constitution, it must enter into force. That would not be questionable if not all those previous members of this law were not in dispute. For this reason, we have suggested that this member be deleted too, because this law cannot enter into force. He can't go into effect for any more reason. You're talking about some kind of record of once-absorbed property, and you're doing it today. Did you know that a building was taken away from the Holy Trinity Church in Zemun, that a false book was registered without legal basis and that none of the department's authorities were responding? Do you know that the Nicholai Church in Zemun was also taken away from one facility, and I'm saying what's been going on in these last four years. Did you know that a large church home was built at the church in Batajnica and that the city authorities are now trying to take that home because it allegedly does not meet some of their known conditions? These are all the reasons why this law must never enter into force. It must not even come into force because the law is a fraud, the deception of Serbian citizens. It must not come into force because this law does not mean the return of the seized property, but only some kind of recording that essentially means nothing. And, with this amendment, we wanted to show the Serbian Radical Party's principle of denationalisation, which is our negative attitude towards denationalisation. I wonder why you need this article 11 in the first place. Why do you even need laws when you don't apply those laws that are in force long ago? If that were not the case, if this were the rule of law and the rule of law were applied, then it is certain that the public prosecutor would react, parallel to the Swedish Attorney General, when it was found out about the ′′Erikson's affair. If he didn't know who it was until today, he should have looked at that photorobot in Serbia's National. It really reminds me of Miroljub Labus. And I ask you, what kind of government is this, ladies and gentlemen, whose vice president of the government takes $13,000? And most importantly, that money was taken at a time when Miroljub Labus was an opposition politician. There are all kinds of questions. How did he know that, the one who gave him the money, that Miroljub Labus would soon be in power? Is Miroljub Labus or the one from ′′Erikson, who is already on the defendant's bench, perhaps psychic, or has the CIA been keeping them informed of what will happen after these elections in Serbia? Ladies and gentlemen, I see you've fallen for this. You have reason indeed, you who are in the congregation majority. It's unacceptable that you don't react to this kind of thing, that you don't react to the vice president of the government who's embarrassed by $13,000. The question is how many dollars and euros are at stake at a time when the Deputy Prime Minister, when the government, when he was still doing this during the opposition period.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14607	So, after this presentation, there is a Miloljub Albianic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14608	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, therefore, some are not worth having sex with, because they say so dirtyly that it is beyond measure. First of all, none of this is true. Two, I'm a graduate mathematician, I'm a graduate math student. Mr. Labus' daughter also graduated from the Faculty of Mathematics with an average of 9.62. Such students at the Faculty of Mathematics have one in a generation. Stanford, the prestigious university in the world, had the honour of seeing such a student. So, in the contest that announced this prestigious university, Mr. Labus' daughter had 700 points of a maximum of 730. She skipped a 70-point line. It shows that the state of Serbia, and you can see that in the competitions of mathematics, physics and astronomy, has exceptional students. It is not the situation that the state of Serbia prevents the exceptional from being even better. Instead of such students, Serbia scholarships, rewards, promotes to be even better and work here, our students are in a position, and this is a good opportunity, to get scholarships from all over the world, because they are extracurricular. I repeat once again that Labus has nothing to do with it, that all insinuations are not true. But I am seriously asking you, since you are able to pronounce such lies for the assembly speaker – prove to me that you did not kill Zoran Djindjic. Well, should we call each other this way? Am I supposed to call you this way? How can you not be ashamed to put such falsehoods behind a pay phone? How are you not ashamed to keep turning the truth around? As you are not ashamed; well, at the time you ruled the country you brought to the brink of destruction, and now you want us to be accused here that we are guilty of this situation in a country that is not the best but is going better, it is moving towards the European Union. You can see for yourself that today a positive assessment of the Performance Study has arrived. There's nothing left for you to do but to tell empty stories, gibberish, and to try to distract the citizens here at the Assembly's pay phone. But I'm telling you, it's not going to work. He won't. Be assured, the citizens see and know who works here, and who makes the circus out of this congregation. As far as G17 plus... (President: Time, Mr. Albianic. I'm done. As for G17 plus, we are proud that Serbia is on the European path. We are proud that the government of the Republic of Serbia is responsible for this and we are proud of our leaders, who are honorable and honest people and lead this country to Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14609	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Prophets of Radet, please be my guest. I'm just asking you to say a member of the Rules of Procedure that you're advertising.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14610	Mr. Markovic, while you are sitting in that seat, you are obliged to take care of the Rules of Procedure, and to God and to the health of the Members of the People, since this man just seemed to have been really unwell. For his sake, you should have stopped him. Anything could've happened after this pay phone. So, an injured member is 100. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I didn't say anything dirty. I was taking out information that is already public in Serbia, here they say (shows the cover of "Kurira") – hiding behind the daughter, and confirmed by the gentleman who tried to defend Miroljub Labus. Now I really don't know what quality. I was talking about Miroljub Labus, a man who, as far as I know, has neither a spokesman nor a lawyer here, and even if he does, he has no right for this pay phone in that capacity to perform. So, I didn't say anything dirty, but it's dirty for the Deputy Prime Minister to take $13,000. It's dirty that the Deputy Prime Minister is having some secret talks with Danon's representative in an attempt to take away some millions. It's dirty that the Deputy Prime Minister is involved in a sugar affair. A lot of things, indeed, in the state of Serbia, unfortunately are dirty. But I just want to say to the gentleman who spoke before me that I'm not accusing anyone. I've been bringing out what the whole of Serbia has been buzzing about for three days. Sweden also, thank you, colleague Jovanovic, and Sweden is buzzing about it. But I'm just wondering and repeating my question - where's our public prosecutor? That the DA was doing his job, that in the three days since the Miroljub Labus affair and the $13,000 he reacted, he might have been able to determine the fact in these three days, so that today we have both Labus in prison or in the newspaper an apology that he didn't do it. If Mr. Labus could have called the public prosecutor, past all possible laws and regulations, of that, you remember, the phantom government session, when the actions of "Knjiza Miloš" were discussed -- then he could have called the public prosecutor, then he could have persuaded the public prosecutor to answer, not to mention anything -- why so far the Prime Minister has not done so, I guess the Prime Minister is bothered to have him write such things about the vice president. Why doesn't someone warn the public prosecutor, why doesn't someone tell the public prosecutor to watch TV, read the newspaper, because he's bound to, and if he does get some information to examine it, because this really isn't a small thing. The fact is, $13.5 is not money, but for the vice-president in the dirty business, neither for the vice president nor for the government nor for the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14611	The word has a National MP, Branka Bosnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14612	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I'd just like to say a few words about the amendment. Can I just ask you just to express the pitchers sometimes to calm down, and those who sometimes win, you don't have to, just those who just keep getting a little calm, because it's not good for Parliament's reputation, they'll think we're all like that. So I'd just like to ask that this pay phone is really used to analyze a law that is quite important; this law should solve the problem of restitution and denationalization. You know as well as I do how much the G17 plus party has advocated putting this law on the agenda as soon as possible. As a prerequisite for passing this law, we have today a very important law and I wanted to tell you that. So it's a law that needs to define the recording of the seized property. In that sense, I would like to say that this amendment, which in itself doesn't make any sense, because it says that Article 11 which is actually transitional provisions, also proves that the definition of such an amendment is often used to make certain MPs come out and say a series of false things. Then I would ask only them – what would it look like if we had been given the agenda for the next Administrative Board today, to read all the charges for all those MPs who asked for their immunity. Imagine what that would mean if we now or if I read all possible criminal charges in the context of today's agenda and all possible court proceedings for some of our colleagues. Don't count on G17 plus to function like that, just count on one professional and collegiate co-operation. So I ask you not to accept this amendment to Article 11, and to support this law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14613	Replica, MP Momir Markovic. Mr. Markovic, you have the word; if you will, take the word. Mr Krasic can't get a word in, because he didn't ask for any of the Rules of Procedure or replicas, he asked to talk about the amendment. If you want, take your word for it, and if not, you don't have to.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14614	Mr. Krasic asked for a replica before me and I'd like to ask Mr. Krasic to come out now, and I'll do it later.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14615	Mr. Markovic, when you are in charge of the session, you will determine who will speak when. If you want to take your word for it, go ahead, and if not, then you've given up on the replica. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14616	Mr. Markovic, you would do well to look at this reminder, I am the authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party for this item of the agenda, and I reported on the replica immediately after Mr. Albianic, because he carried out a series of insults to the SRS account. I'd like to go ahead and explain what's going on. It's perfectly normal that when the majority of the assembly blocks the debate about the government's trust, the individual ministers... You know for a fact that here you have practically taken off the agenda or you have not allowed the debate on Mladjan Dinkic, you know that there are numerous reports of a polling committee on an affair called electricity, the "Knjiz Milos" affair and other affairs. I just need to remind you – as mentioned in the affair, the inevitable name and last name is Mladjan Dinkic and Miroljub Labus. I wanted to rephrase more because Mr. Albianic was inappropriate in his replica of Mrs. Radete's exposure to Mr. Labus' daughter. Don't get your family involved in anything that's purely political. There are newspaper articles, there are reports that the Swedish government is interested in the former minister, and the current member of the government; according to what the media published, everyone was recognized. Of course, as soon as the first information started, as soon as the money was thought of, it was known that Mladjan Dinkic and Miroljub Labus were there and that was no miracle. If all this is as clean as one of my predecessors has said, why is the debate avoided? Give an argument, there shall be a terrible point. But it seems to me that some strange arches are being applied here. The same party expressed their views on Bodrum, Janjusevic, Kolesar and others a year and a half ago, and in the same way we advocated putting it on the agenda. Be objective when you're in power and you're in opposition. Of course the public is shocked by these two or three days because of the texts published in the paper. Imagine, someone as an opposition politician guaranteed what he would do when he was in power, so someone designed him as future power. However, this fits what the SRS represents as a principled position on 5 October, the burning of two curtains, etc. Don't avoid the debate, open that debate, we'd discuss it in a day or two, solve those problems, move on. And, Serbian citizens, rest assured, all of this is being heard, watched, remembered, collected, taken and waited for the day when elections will be held and then punished either you or us. Then why are you afraid?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14617	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Penezic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14618	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the previous speaker, my esteemed colleague, to say, said he was a kind of mathematician, a graduate mathematician; I see that mathematics is going well, you already assume what I mean. I'm also a graduate, but I'm not a mathematician, but I'm done with Serbian language and literature, so I'm proud of it, so since I don't know how to count, I have an empty pocket and a pure radical soul. I will begin my speech in the style of my profession. He who stands on a hill and stands a little, sees more than he who is under the hill. You're either standing on a hill so you won't see that this law is no good, that this is just a farce or that you're really under a hill, so you don't see anything yet. I think the whole law is unnecessary, excessive and this amendment to Article 11 is normally to be accepted; therefore, as soon as this amendment is adopted, the law falls into the water. It's impossible, gentlemen, in this mix-up to correct everything. You may think that we Serbian radicals want to obstruct the Assembly, but believe that we are preparing studioly for each item of the agenda, and that is why in this number we are going out to do something for the benefit of the citizens and that we are very well-intentioned to draw your attention that this law is not good and that this amendment should be adopted. Under this law, maybe Article 10 should be singled out, redesigned, and it would be acceptable for the churches to return their property. That's what we'll talk about later. Can everything come back? I have to perform here a little emotionally – I'm asking if my taken childhood, my childhood and a part of my youth can come back. I was a two-year-old boy in a camp. Who am I supposed to ask, report back what I lost? Who should I report to my father in that war? It's an honor, I'm proud to say here that it's an honor to have inserted my card and rehabilitated my father in this assembly and to have his glory.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14619	The word is made by the People's Messenger Vladimir Homan.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14620	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind all those present to discuss here an amendment to article 11 of this law. We have been talking for days about amendments of the SRS, which are all the same – the member and the SRS are being deleted. As for Article 11, it contains provisions that say when this law will enter into force. The same members have all the laws adopted in this National Assembly, including those adopted at the time when the SRS was in power; they wrote the same members, and now they are making amendments. I want to say this: this is what this is all about, it's clear to everyone, about obstruction. Why? Because we've been discussing things for days. Miss Jovanovic, it is not appropriate for you to throw young men behind a pay phone; please don't. This obstruction prevents the debate on the next law on the agenda, which allows older people over 15 years to be treated abroad. Let our citizens know that we are losing our days here by discussing amendments to delete that and that one, while they wait for laws and amendments to the laws that are important to them. There's some lies running around here reading some yellow presses. These lies are meant to say, it seems, that gifted children of functionants must not receive scholarships because their parents are in those places, because it is immediately suspicious. It is sad to forget that this is exactly the kind of thing, but not made up but true, it happened until 2000, that apartments, tuitions, and schooled children in all possible places on this globe of the Earth, and that was none of the more interested, and at least these soul-care workers from "Kurir" and similar yellow newspapers. I ask all those present, those who would like to discuss this pointless amendment and others, to return to the subject, to forget more of this amendment and move forward with the agenda, to do something that we all like in this assembly, I hope.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14621	Replica, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14622	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am grateful that Mr Markovic did not warn the previous speaker and others who tried to insult Serbian Radical Party MPs from this speaker. My predecessor here tried the most brutal way to offend a lady, but somebody's gonna throw something at him. They may be getting you somewhere, but you don't have to give me those signs, I don't understand that gesture. Maybe some others do. Be assured that such women as Natasa Jovanovic would never throw you away, you are far away from them and you are far below them and you would have no chance, but it is a shame to abuse a pay phone in this way and it is a shame that someone who should be a gentleman in this way offends a woman. I see you're having fun. You're having a good time. You steal the whole country, you take away everything you get to the people, and then you die laughing. Nice one, how funny that is to you. The people are thinking, the bread won't eat, but since you stole all the Serbian money, you've also solved the Swedish money to steal. It was a little bit of Serbian money, and you think it's a solution, so you're laughing, it's nice. You enjoy it when you say: prove that you did not kill Zoran Djindjic. I came to prove it to you. If we did, I suppose you'd be chasing one of the Serbian radicals for that, I don't suppose you'd keep your mouth shut if someone committed such a big, heavy and terrible crime. I'm counting on you as legalists and someone who wants to kill criminals to be prosecuted by official duty by one of those involved in this murder. I don't see any radicals there, and, of course, as far as you're concerned, you're about Serbian couples everywhere. Now I see Sweden has no peace either. You're going after one of the most powerful companies, and you're going to rob it, and then you can win the Nobel Prize, like you said. When the Nobel Prize for robbery is established, I think you're the first laureate, no doubt. As far as the Serbian Radical Party is concerned, we will prove something else to you. We are in opposition today, and the moment we come to power, the authorities of the state will talk about what you did. So just be calm, have peace, don't try to insult the ladies because it's not human, nor male, nor gentlemanly, but go out politically to the duel, if you can beat them, and Natasa Jovanovic, Verica Radeta, Gordana Pop-Lazic, all our ladies from the SRS Parliament club can eat you up politically. Don't worry, a lot will happen to you in the future, and soon prepare not to prove it, because the state authorities will prove how many Serbians and how many Swedish money have gone, yours will be to defend yourself. It'll be your only job.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14623	Replica, Ambassador Miloljub Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14624	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if we recall earlier times, there were empty shelves in the shops, rows of milk and bread; just when I come to order, and I have a small child, there is no milk. They are criticizing us today, in a situation where the country is being restored, when the standard is rising as much as it is; we are criticised by those who have brought the country to ruin, by those who have made us stand in line waiting for bread and milk without reaching, or by being satisfied that we have found it. Today you're making an average and you're saying that for the average salary you can buy that much and that much, you say – there's a disaster in this country, nothing's wrong. I'm not saying it's good, but it's a very nice house for you and your time. There is a parole when Milosevic was ahead of the crash. Gentlemen Radicals, this government has implemented a document that has been confirmed today in the EU, which is a positive assessment of the feasibility study. I understand your nervousness, because we're taking the country to the future, and certainly you would, with your rhetoric and your story, bring the country back into the past. A situation arises where those who have ruined the country today talk about changes and that today’s government will destroy the country. As you do not understand, gentlemen of the radicals, that after obtaining a positive assessment of the feasibility study, there is a clear European path, and for you only one message after all this – you have cracked.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14625	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14626	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have to admit I didn't understand this first part of Mr. Albianic's exposure. Did he say that about his coalition partner? I don't think anyone would dare criticise their coalition partner. Your government depends on the ones you just attacked. The Serbian Radical Party has been an integral part of the Serbian government for two years. At the time you attacked, it was ten years ago, it was those who support you today. You criticize them, criticize your partners. What kind of authority is this where partners criticize each other so publicly? You're criticizing their president and you're saying he's broken. That's too much. It's interesting that there's no one to rebel and say one word. I'll tell you. I don't know who it is or what it means to you, but it looks like you're done. It seems to me like no one knows what's going on in the government anymore, what's going on around it, the only people know what's going on in his country. I don't mind you coming out to say something you did. I'm not saying it's all a disaster, like I'm not going to say it's ideal, if it isn't. Now I'm quite serious to answer you. Our citizens have a lot of problems, a lot of trouble, barely a rag end with the end. From that paper of yours or any paper of yours, they don't have anything. People still can barely feed their children, pensioners don't have anything to give their grandchildren. For this it will hardly help them and the coalition with those responsible for those shelves you're talking about, but I don't know what that has to do with the Serbian Radical Party. On the other hand, there's something else I need to tell you, when you're talking about the EU -- you seem to have solved all the values of the European Union to take. What Serbia could have done so far could have, but not Sweden outside the EU, Sweden is in the EU, Norway is outside the EU. Take care, it can leave huge consequences on the country, when someone kidnaps from EU members; I fear it may happen to us soon to tell us – you cannot, one of the EU's most powerful companies you have managed to rob and it has run out of significant income and it is a major problem. Speaking of what our people say and how empty it used to be, I don't know what it was when we took down that government, that socialist thing, so sometimes you say it was empty at the time, and I don't know what, when you had a little kid. Many of us have little children, and the right to tell you, I don't mean to serve myself, tell you what, how, and in what way any one of us has taken refuge and who even the children had to get out of this city when you thought you were seducing your democracy. I hope that time never happened again. As for "a far-beautiful house", our people say, our people have a better saying, "who lies, he steals." This could be applied by Serbian citizens to many who speak different kinds of untruths from this pay phone and whose untrue is the basic principle of political action. Not to mention those who took the money without knowing how, or why, and not knowing, after all, how much it cost this country and these citizens. I'm not saying this because anyone's wrong, someone's jealous or mean about what someone's got. No, I'm saying this because the citizens of Serbia and that Serbia could have had a lot more if it weren't for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14627	Replica, Ambassador Miloljub Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14628	Mr. Wolf, you must be one of those orange radical leaders. It's a totalitarian group. I'll explain what that means. The totalitarian group has a very common need, it works here for a pay phone, to tell a useful lie and try to repeat it as many times as possible. That saying "who's lying, who's stealing" refers to you. Second, let me clear your memory. You've never been an opposition in the 1990s, but it's made you state security for the needs of the government, so they can use you whenever they want. It would not make sense that the self-proclaimed duke beats one respected Serbian writer, but the elections were staged. That's how you showed up on a political scene in Rakovica. As for the story of what the situation is today, I can really agree that the government and the responsible people are doing everything they can to fix it, the state you've brought this country to, along with others. You tell us some demagogue stories, and when you got home to power, you went home in every way. But it's been a while, so now it's hard for you to pay phone bills. And I will remind the MPs and citizens that on the Administrative Committee we have very often a topic – immunity. Look at the wonders, among these people, the most radical thing anyone has ever done is beat someone up, what they've embezzled, what they've done, what there are criminal charges against you, and by official duty, they're asking for immunity to be taken down. Let's cut the deal that all MPs should be protected in the same way, when you're still engaged in thieving. How can you not be ashamed to call honest and responsible people here in the congregation? You're not ashamed, I'm asking you. Explain your position in this regard, in terms of criminal charges. On the other hand, it is constantly trying, in a certain way, to relativise the successes of this government, which leads the country into the European Union. Whatever you do, whatever you try, however you reduce this study, it has its historical value for the state of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the parliamentary groups of the assembly majority, together with the G17 plus, leads the country to Europe, and you here whine, cry, stretch, do whatever you want, but we will succeed. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14629	Replica, Ambassador Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14630	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's nice to listen to Miloljub Albianic, especially when he raises his voice, a man would say – here he is, something strengthened, especially in the electoral body, a nice one. I'll tell him everything he wants to know. As for the phone bills, I expect Ericson to pay me, that's 50,000 times less than what Miroljub Labus stole. Next, as far as criminal charges go, I've got about 55-60, indictments, criminal charges, I don't know what. I haven't seen anyone tell me anything, and I haven't called for immunity anywhere, at least not until now. So I'm telling you, you don't have to worry about it. Of your various and Djelic's idiotic reports about how I've been handing out bonuses, which I haven't even seen, and I haven't signed, but because I've been in charge of the Ministry, because I'm being sued by Cane- Frog for being sued by the second, third, fifth, tenth, I'm not worried about anything, all these financials of yours. Secondly, I don't know who made us; my mother gave birth to me, I guess my father took part in it, and as for who made you, it's hard to establish.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14631	Mr. Wolfie, don't mention it that way, we said we wouldn't take it personally.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14632	Don't say that, he said that someone was making me. He was saying I was being made by national security.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14633	Allow me, as chairman, I think you're...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14634	He said I was being made by national security.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14635	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14636	Here, I say, I think it was Angelko Wolfich...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14637	Mr. Wolfichu, as chairman, I believe you've injured Article 100. Please pay attention to the dignity of the National Assembly. When someone else is chaired, they may have a different criterion, so please continue in a way that will not offend the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14638	What did I, Mr. Markovic, hurt when he said I was being made by national security? I'm just asking who made them and nothing else. As for national security, the right to tell you, I didn't have any business with them, nor do I know who they are, where they are, what they are. I see there are some around here who are messing around, boasting that they're with the G17. I have no idea what this is about. I don't know what you wanted to tell us. If you have anything, come out and say it specifically, you don't have to be too wise. One more thing, you're talking about it here -- honest, honest, honest people; now I'm telling you, come on, people, if you want anywhere, in any way, since you're talking about criminal charges, it's back in 2000, you're still in that world, five million, so all the proceedings are going on. I'm waiting for Sljivancan to condemn me for the other day for taking part in a group that commits violence against the police, or I don't know what it is, I don't know exactly what it's called, it doesn't matter. ... Yes, because I've caught thieves like you. I'm going to jail for that, especially, just like that. In the end, within this replica, here, I'm waiting for you, people, you're in power, you arrest, you do everything you can and everything you want. I will not threaten you, nor can I, nor will I. I especially don't want anything wrong with your families. But one thing I promise you - for stealing, thieving and destroying Serbia you will have to answer, in accordance with the law. Get ready, that day has come close.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14639	I'd like to continue working on the amendments. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14640	The Serbian Radical Party wants an amendment to Article 11 to prevent the harmful consequences of the law. Namely, gentlemen, you've embarked on an adventure that you don't know the results of. You're passing a law that aims at a list of assets. How are you going to stop the descendants of the folksdojcher in Vojvodina from reporting the seized property? Will you say that their ancestors were denied all civil rights, were seized property; even those who claim inheritance rights in the same way were denied civil rights and were not taken away from property in the same way. How will you prevent any descendants who come to be heirs to the escape? How will you prevent those who seek pasta? For 500 years, the whole of Serbia has been owned by fugitives and pastures. Where are you gonna pull the line? What year is that border? What's the basis of the real limit? Are you just going to blur your eyes, say, "Here, we're the ones who list, we're recording those who took away the property, and on the basis of that record, you're going to do so much harm to the majority of the population in Vojvodina that you're not aware of it. For many years, the descendants of the folksdojcheres have also stated their request to the Council of Europe to return their property to them, to make up for their property. You and your political like-minded organize buses, literally columns of folks' descendants to tour Vojvodina and mark. These are the heirs, descendants of members of the famous ′′Prince Eugen′′ division, which has sickened the Serbian provinces. There is a chance that we can prevent you from passing this law if we come across the understanding of the majority in this House. There's something that the Serbian Radical Party can't stop right now, and that's your thieving and criminality. He can't stop it; when your kids are educated abroad, you find a sponsor immediately, so that's exactly what a telecommunications guy like Erickson was. But it doesn't matter to you, you don't care about the company, you're interested in having kids study abroad, you know, to brag about the team, how good they are. Of course they're good, when they have financial logistics from the world's companies, when it's only for tips 13, 14, or $15,000 a day to spend one child. What's he gonna do? He's gotta be a bum on his mom. I do not object to individual colleagues from the ruling majority, who, by defending this bill, reach for arguments based on this proposal and also in the real facts. I don't mind my fellow Albianic. He's a man who's late. That's 180 degrees. He's talking about the '90s now. It's not his fault. The biggest problem with him is the distance from the center of thought and reproduction. The center of thought is in his lower back, and for his reproduction on his shoulder.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14641	Please, buddy, it's not funny, please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14642	No, but it's educational. I can't understand the head of the parliamentary group...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14643	Okay, that was funny, not all of it. Please, I have to take care of the order at the session, be nice.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14644	... who comes out for this pay phone and with such hatred speaks of the Serbian Radical Party. Hate doesn't lead you anywhere, my dear colleague, it doesn't lead, you should have learned from your party president. He was kicked out of his government by Zoran Djindjic when he saw what a criminal he was, when he saw what a pervert he was. Well, the people who stayed in that party can confirm it to you. Here, Mr. Markovic, in part, although oral, was familiar with it. Don't cry, defend this law with arguments, present facts, and not when you have no arguments, you have no facts, you say right away – radicals are guilty of killing that and that. No, gentlemen, don't jump in advance, you can end up in a pot. The investigation isn't complete yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14645	Replica, MP Miloljub Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14646	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's not worth talking to people, it's not worth talking to, but it looks like I'm going to make you feel good about the radicals. So, as you know, all bodies in nature have a natural need to cool down. Every system, and politically, needs to go into chaos. In the 1990 ’ s, radicals resorted to this natural need and brought the country into chaos. In order to improve and regulate the country, as for the bodies, we need to invest energy to increase their temperature, as well as for every political system and for the work in the country, we need to hire professionals, working people to fix the situation and not allow the possibility of such as radicals destroying and bringing the country into chaos. Look at the situation we're in. I know that demagogy is your strong suit. I know an empty story is your strong suit. I know a good lie is the strongest part. But it's not worth anything to you. Serbian citizens should know there are obstructions in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Accordingly, I pray to the congregation’s majority, it seems that the time has matured for the congregation’s Rules of Procedure to be changed in order to measure these. That's the point. Citizens need to know that you have no purpose. Do you have any concrete suggestions? Do you have a proposal for a law, a proposal for a solution to a problem? You don't. The largest number of amendments is to delete it and not have anything. But even when there was nothing, I will remind you of the words of Bishop Nikola Velimirovic, when they tried, and they worked to put paper on him with a theme, and one day paper was empty, and he said nothing, on this side, anything, on this side, and God created heaven and earth. And we're here to work, to fix the country and take the country to Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14647	Replica, MP Alexander Vukic. Please, sir, please, less passion. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14648	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, something nervous is Mr. Albianic; people say Lucky is a little nervous. Looks like he wants to beat people up. We're not up for a fight. You can do it. We want intelligence, knowledge and education to defeat you, of course. But don't worry, Mr. Albianic, some of our escape legs aren't working, so we'll be there, don't worry, we won't get away from it either. As for what you said, I have to tell you that you're attacking your sad coalition partners again. The poor ones don't answer anything, they don't even know what to say. You're accusing them again, in the most terrifying way, of accusing your coalition partners from the SPS, which is a real shame. I have to tell you something, you've been talking here again about Nikolai Velimirovich and talking about how there's no goal, nothing on the one hand, nothing on the other, so you're gonna get us in line and you're gonna get us in line. What's our measure? I'll tell you, all of us people lead to the right measure. Right now, we're at about 40%, and you're at about 2.4%. Those are our measures. They're the only ones I understand. Secondly, I didn't realize, I suppose Mr. Markovic will explain what it meant – some work, energy and some heat and some miracle, I didn't quite realize it, body temperature and something like that, I don't know what it has to do with the MPs and anyone. I guess the citizens of Serbia understood. As far as other matters are concerned, Mr Albianic, Serbian citizens know one thing, your goal is this or that, politically. You have the right to realize it, you have the right to fight for it. What you have no right to do, you have no right to take from the citizens of Serbia. That's what you have no right to. Here, let's say that we never said anything on any subject and that all these years, we either keep quiet or we say I don't know what or the name you'd call it, but one thing is absolutely true -- people and citizens of Serbia would be very pleased with the achievement of one goal... Looks like the coalition partner got mad. He asks if he steals Labus or doesn't steal Labus, and it's not a question of what they used to do, Mr. Albianic. That's the theme: stealing Labus; and I say. So, to finish this sentence: one goal is very important for the citizens of Serbia, which is to free themselves from crime and corruption. Because the goal is to free crime and corruption, so these measures will be even more pronounced. One will go over 40%, and some will go below 2.4%, as far as they now have. And, in the end, since you were talking about totalitarian, orange or not, I don't know what kind of yellow, green, blue, red, whatever you want, but unlike you, we don't have accounts in Marshall or in the Seasel Islands, I can't think of which ones are yours. As far as fostering is concerned, I don't know what apartment Miroljub Labus is living in – in the five-in-one, 170-square-square-squared apartment he got from the Communist Union, the SPS pardon and the City Assembly? Did he get it from them? Did he get it from them, and it's downtown. And that's enough for you to talk about it; five million times I've heard something and we've kept quiet about it. We keep quiet, and you steal everything you've got, wherever you've come, the way you've arrived. And you have little Serbia, as much as you steal, so now you've moved to Sweden. It'll be small for you and Sweden how much thieves you are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14649	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Miloljub Albianic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14650	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as Mr. Labus' estate card is concerned, he had the same property card as today, unlike you are in power today. So that's one big difference. And there's one huge difference, which is -- if he knew you were going to be like that, he would never let you pass the exam. On the other hand, when we look at the weather that used to be and now -- lawlessness is the key word for your rule. Classic lawlessness. Kidnap - another key word regarding your rule. Persecution of men - a key word regarding your rule. You beat people in the streets - a key word regarding your rule. So, a society in which general uncertainty existed, in which fear was the main argument of government. And today, what are we doing today? Today we are reading a positive assessment of the Performance Study, where it is said -- the development of democratic institutions, legislative activity in the Assembly; where it is said -- law enforcement; where it is said -- development, freedom; where it is said -- freedom of movement of people, goods, capital and services. Which of these freedoms were earlier? Nothing. So now we have on one side the normal functioning of democratic institutions, unlike the time when you were trying to burn and burn, but only by persecution and beating. Since you're not ashamed to come to this assembly pay phone and speak, you've been working on closing newspapers. You remember that well. You remember the persecution of Serbia at the time. You remember the beatings of educators, students, taxi drivers and everything else. And today you are reading the fruits of democracy, where human rights are said to be respected; where we are said to have an improved dialogue with the European Union, etc. When you look at it, when you measure two sides of the medal, you see clearly what kind of society we live in and what kind of society we want to make. And we want to be a family of European peoples. We want to leave those things you've done for the past, to forget them, and you keep trying to remind us. But it's no use to you. The European path is drawn.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14651	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Alexander Vucic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14652	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't know Mr. Labus would have shot me down today. I thought he was a fair judge, who knows, who doesn't know. I used to get a dozen at his place from the political economy, but it seems that now, because of a different opinion, he would have shot me down, as Mr. Albianic says, but what to do. I might, but I don't believe it, and I can't say it. Yeah. [[Comments from the hall are not heard]] Mr. Labus used to be a good lecturer at law school and he better have stayed at law school. As you can see, I can't be exactly like you and I can't go that far and so low. It was a long time ago, I don't know exactly when I was lying, but I think he's been 15 ever since. As for the problems in Serbia that were, I'm sorry you're attacking your SPS coalition partners again. I'm sorry that they, sad, don't respond to it, but what do we do? I guess they'll still support you, for some unknown reason. You're the only one who's going after them. Just say what they did, how they ruled, how everything happened. I can't quite agree with you guys about it, but if you say that about your coalition partners, then I really don't want to get involved. All I'm assuming is that your coalition partners are going to say something at some point, but they're not going to. But it looks like the voters are trying to say -- everything was really bad, now we're looking like some new one, it looks different, so it just looks like Milosevic's bad. Who knows what it is. I brought here to show you something more serious, something that neither the SRS nor anyone else has concluded, and that you can't say that it's our political argument with you and that we want to transfer something to you. This is (in hands holding the material) a report by several international organisations in the field of health, in French, which is said to be a key word, since you mentioned a few keywords, a key word in May 2005 for Serbian health, you know which is - corruption! Corruption - that's the key word. And in 2005, if I'm not mistaken, they're not Serbian radicals in power. Some others are in power. Some others from the Serbian government are today managing, not only the Ministry of Health, but the country's entire policy. And one more thing, since every time it looks like you're getting close to the end of the show, you start yelling, you probably get it in strength, what you have to say, and like this, it's pretty scary, every time we think about whether we're going to get out of this room, get out, get out of the way, you've become very dangerous, Mr. Albianic, so I'm counting on it won't take long, because you might be able to start applying some other measures, how tough you are and how serious you are in all of this. I ask you to pay attention to that, that you don't intimidate any more MPs here, because it really doesn't make any sense anymore. None of us, for God's sake, can deal with you, you're so powerful, so powerful. Well, what's wrong with you people, we just want to do crime and corruption to show you, nothing else. Don't worry about it. And one more thing, Mr. Albianic, since I don't think it's worth spending all day with you in a vain debate, and some others getting out of it and saying that they're not very guilty, and that it's just you, and they're very good, all those you're sitting with today in the government are equally guilty. And the same responsibility they bear. And most of all, it's their fault that they let you take over under your control, that you do everything you want, whatever you want, and the way you want it to be, and that soon the password to enter the government of Serbia, from that -- knock, knock, knock, formerly, or the bell at the gates of the government, will be -- you know which, Ericson, instead of -- the zvezda, zvez, will be -- Erikson. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14653	The word has a National MP, Branka Bosnjak, according to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14654	I've answered my question on the Rules of Procedure, Article 99, and I'd really like to ask that there be some sort of conversation in the Assembly on the agenda. I'm not saying I was a little inspired to ask myself a question. Namely, why exactly is there talk of health care and to ask if some MPs know from whose ranks the doctor, who was suspended in time for abuse, can't even tell who.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14655	I'm just obliged to give an answer. You know, Mrs. Bosnjak, and all MPs, that the chairman can't affect the content of the discussion, because whenever the chairman tried to do so, it mostly became a much worse situation. So everything remains on the MPs, and if they want to abide by the agenda and adapt their discussions to some basic standards of decent conduct, they will do so, if they will not -- and chairing it is powerless. The People's MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then the MP Zoran Krasic on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14656	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, whenever I hear one of my fellow MPs when he starts yelling with a loud voice and every other sentence is his SRS, I can only conclude two things: either he's a criminal or he's sick. And the concrete proposal he asked for, I think it's for starters, to go to treatment, and let the prosecutor take care of those other concrete proposals. The same MP said this amendment submitted by the SRS MP was pointless. When I read the law, I see that the amendment is excellent, it reads, is deleted. Such a law, something you can't apply, something you invented to lie to people, some pre-election promises you can't make, you're trying through one of these laws to blur people's eyes, and that's the purpose of this law. You've been making this noise for a year since you've been in power. Many began to spar and measure their old assets, so now we're dividing Serbia into two parts again, those who are looking for some property and those who are already scared and who have that property in this country, and they're neither guilty nor obliged to have it, because they got it in such a time because they lost their country, some of them have no parents, no families. It has now occurred to someone to draw 10, 20, or 30,000 votes in order to have one or two more MPs and to lie to the people in Serbia, and that is the purpose of this law. I just want to remind you what you promised. You promised, this particular party that I can freely say is a private company, a reduction of some taxis; did you cut them down – you didn't. You promised to cut taxes, and you promised to cut it. Not only have you not reduced, but you have introduced a tax on bread, on meat, on milk, on flour, on water, on seed goods, it is also on eggs, and that is probably what you wanted to get back at your old sponsor Miodrag Kostic, i.e., I mean "Blood Product". So someone mentioned bread and milk here, and they said, at the time of the SRS, they were rows. They may have been, now they're gone, but that's why less bread is produced, less milk is produced. And why is that? It's not for sale, there's no one to buy. Then the poor girl could buy bread to eat, and now you've taken it right away from her. Now bread can buy only one who has a lot of money, because it cost four dinars before October 5th, and now it's 25 or 30 dinars. And whether salaries are 800 percent higher than then – they are not. He that seeketh to pollemise shall go out for a loudspeaker, and he that feareth shall cry out of the bench. Are those the results of your authority? So the poor girl could have bought it. Are you aware that the poor woman now has much more and more time is moving away and as you rule the creature is more and more, so this law that you have proposed is just the simplest eye blurring of a starving and exhausted people.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14657	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Homan.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14658	I advertise Article 99's injury, where it's said, every speaker is obliged to talk about a subject that's on the agenda. And since he's not already talking, he's talking about some promises, telling himself what you promised. You promised Serbia at the borders of Karlovac, Karlobag, Ogulin, Virovitica. I told you something to throw at you once, but it doesn't seem to do you any good. (Alexander Vukic, from place: Donkey One. In addition, I request a warning for this rude MP. Who's the donkey? You donkeys are what you throw at me.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14659	I'm sorry, really. Please, I'd like you to throw away, and I'd really like to ask the speaker to do it properly for the next 20 minutes. This is still being broadcast via television, and I think we've been sending a terrible bad message for the last hour of this session. Here you go. Mr. Homan.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14660	As for other things, let's say bread is expensive and it takes a lot of money to buy bread. As for the price of bread in our time, now it takes money to buy bread, but it doesn't take much time to wait, it doesn't take a lot of muscle to fight the others who wait for that little bread to buy. You said just now that you know what our policy is, what it is, what we stand for and what we strive for, and these are the values of G17 plus, the values of this government, the values that the EU recognises as well. There in that study, a positive study, if you have read it, and since it has been translated into Serbian, you have probably been able to read it, the reforms that start since 2000 are being discussed. No one mentions the period before 2000, when your magnificent 17 ministers were in power, in the government of the Republic of Serbia. And what you did then with those 17 great ministers for the Republic of Serbia, what you did for its citizens; you did what you knew and what you could. It would have been better if you hadn't done anything, but unfortunately, you've done a lot of things and the consequences of that we feel today.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14661	Replica, Ambassador Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14662	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't mind that you're not, although it's from this pay phone, not me or the MPs, but if you want the ladies, this man said they were donkeys. Sir, I don't know what your last name is, not because I want to belittle you, but I don't really know, don't be angry about it. Let me tell you something, nobody from this pay phone ever said anything about anyone. So, you throw things out of there when I'm at the pay phone, it's also true that we tell you what we think about you, but from this pay phone nobody ever said it. Is that your argument that you're thieves to say - you're donkeys. But what you're going to do, we might be horses, and zebras, and antelopes, and like this and like that, but we're not thieves like you, that's the difference between you and me. You're saying, seeing as you don't know the geography, you don't even know the layout of the place, maybe you think Jasenovac is not a Serbian place, maybe you think Gracac or Udbin are not Serbian places. I'm sorry, they are today, but that's your problem, not mine. It's a problem for Serbs, for which one MP doesn't know they exist or live. As for other things, about the Performance Study; I'd like to compete and see who knows and who speaks more foreign languages, because I think you wanted to disrespect us. I happened to have luck or an accident for even one time to live abroad, so there's not much talent and not as very smart, so I learned something, and I didn't have any scholarship other than a scholarship to develop the scientific and artistic youth of the Republic of Serbia, which I received as a high school student. I didn't get that on my cell phone, it wasn't Ericson involved, and I didn't need to give it to anyone. As for that, I hope they didn't send us the Performance Study in Swedish because I know that only you would understand that, on one of the two options, and I know that no one else in this country or could very hard know what it says except you. What I'm counting on is that no one else knows or could be involved. I expect you to jump into the Nokia story soon. It's hard for Finland if you get a hold of the Nokia tender. It's hard for other countries if you get any offers, and that's why it would be good to change whether we're zebras, camels, donkeys, horses, like you already said about the SRS. What you said about ladies talking about you, saying what kind of gentleman you are, saying what kind of man you are and what kind of home you are. When you lose your temper, you don't know what else to do but insult. You come out, and you insult, and you say, "They are animals or I don't know what." But I have to tell you, I'm proud of it, and I'm very happy that I can't tell you that you're animals. Unfortunately, you are something that is a disgrace to the human race, and these are thieves and criminals. Because you are thieves and criminals soon come to a political end and deserve the punishment of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14663	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Nadika Momirov.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14664	Fellow Members of the People, I report to the Rules of Procedure, Article 100(1), who says, "The Members of the People are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly." Here by the MPs of the SRS not to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, but to torture the other MPs, especially the G17 Plus MPs. The public is obliged to know that we are suffering torture here, swearing in the halls, where we are told such ugly words, where it's provoked amazingly, are cast the ugliest that can be imagined. They're also doing it in the halls, they're doing it in public. At the same time, they call certain political parties to be thieves, criminals, etc. But everyone knows that the SRS is in power in the majority, a lot of local self-government, especially in Vojvodina. I'm from Vojvodina. The Duke was harassed and robbed for years. Now they are enemies of the Vojvodina, enemies of Serbia, enemies of all citizens. We now have an SRS in Vojvodina that has taken responsibility and now we will see how the SRS will rule. We can already ask the people of Vojvodina if they're better, whether it's better for the New Sad since the SRS is in power, whether they have more money, whether they live better, whether they have better roads, whether bridges are built. What did you do? Nothing. You've robbed once already, you'll rob again. Every time the SRS is in power, they'll rob this country. It's a fact and you can never kill it by saying that they're all other thieves. That's not true. We have concrete results that are visible, they're standing on paper and that's what anyone wants to see. Also, anyone who wants to see will see what the SRS is doing in Vojvodina and what it does in Serbia, where it is in the local government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14665	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milka Silajev and MP Zoran Angelkovic. Then the replica of the People's Messenger Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14666	Gentlemen, what's happening here is terrible. We should all be ashamed of each other in front of our citizens who voted for us. We're the cost of this country. How are we acting? Instead of making more laws every day as countries from our environment, we simply spend energy in each other's conflicts. That's not right. Thank you for your compliment and for your remarks. I will, I'll calm down, you're right. Gentlemen, huge Bulgaria, Romania, are going to reorganise and reconstruct their public enterprises. We're only at the beginning. We've got a lot of big business ahead of us. What are we doing? We make the amendments a hell of a lot, we spend time, and it goes like sand through the hand. It's not good. How much time have we spent on the Seed Act, and how much are we spending now? That's not right. The last word about us and our work will be the word of the people, and time is history, so they will surely say. This is terrible that the tabloids are imposing on us. The "Kurir" imposes a theme on us, and they write to support themselves. Don't we have a selection level? Can't we separate what's good for our discussion, what can lead us forward? I guess we can't, and that's terrible. It is normal, then, that in such conditions all young people begin to hate this country and everyone wants to leave this country, and they need to be understood, when we can't make a country where they can live well. This is a beautiful country, but we don't have the strength to make it even more beautiful. I can tell you that my daughter left and used a scholarship. She had an average of 9.6 and couldn't get a job in this country, she graduated from electrical engineering school. She didn't find a job in this country, and what could she do? She just got a scholarship on the Internet. Europe is crying out for smart kids. It creates conditions for them to study here. I wasn't in power at the time, and she couldn't get a job, even though she was a great student. That's sad. She's got a lot of smart kids. We are a people who have distinct individualistic traits, but unfortunately we have no sense of organization of the state and that's terrible. We've got to get smart. This can't go on like this. We have a huge number of laws ahead of us. Where does that lead us? Bulgarians work, their parliament works on weekends, and countless laws are right, and we have a law that stretches terribly. We're inefficient, it's not good. Please, let us take our minds and be effective for the sake of Serbia, this beautiful country.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14667	Mrs. Silaev, I am obliged to answer you in my Rules of Procedure, but I can only say that I share your opinion and I also urge that we move on to more constructive work. Here you go, Mr. Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14668	Ladies and gentlemen, it takes two to love. If you two love each other here, don't get the third of us involved. We don't like that group love to participate. Therefore, when you argue and argue, you argue among yourselves. But if you're already discussing bread, it's true, we had sanctions in 1993 and we're not ashamed of it. We know why we had them. We're not ashamed of everything that happened in 1993. I remind you, in 1993, we had 101 MPs, and in December 1993, with that inflation and that kind of purchase of bread, we got 121 MPs. I want you with this kind of economic policy to get 100 MPs instead of 30 and how many you have. Likewise, at that time the people waited and bought bread, he had something to buy from. Today, the people, unfortunately, have nothing to buy bread from. It doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it doesn't come in line, it doesn't come in front of the store. Here we listened to the Minister of Labour, who said the number of employees increased by 80,000 from 2000 to 2004. That's a lie, that's not true. National Employment Service data show that on January 1st 2001, 717,000 were unemployed, and now 978,000. It's economic policy. Let's talk about this economic policy, let's see what was created in this Serbia in those three years, how unemployed people are, how many have not even applied to the SIZ. We don't have an organized state. We had an organized state. Ask the communists how they made a good state. DOS came and canceled everything, ruined everything. When you unmount the state, you cannot create a state and reorganize in a few months. Don't unmount everything that works, so you'll think you'll do better if you don't know better. Save what works and then talk about what you did today. What we were doing was choices. What we've been doing, that's how we've been through. That's how much we got, and we're happy with it. You finally solve this problem. Let's get back to the subject. I'd like to see you return that property you promise. We'll vote for this bill because he doesn't mean anything, he doesn't pay anyone back, but I want to see that new one when you want to give it back to someone, so you're in charge of 50-60 billion future generations. The SPS will never vote for the country to be in charge of the new $50-60 billion, when we cannot repay seven billion. But that's the way. Let's settle this and give this love to each other a little bit, you can do it in the halls, but let's finish, finally, after 10 days of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14669	Replica, Ambassador Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14670	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I just want to make up for a few things that Mrs. G17 plus said from this pay phone. No one has ever said a word to you in the hall, not to you, not to any MP, not to your party, but to any party in this House. We always talk very politely and politely. Don't make it up, because it's a shame. If you want none of ours to answer, there's no such problem. We don't want to talk to you any more than a good day, but don't make it up from this pay phone so you can wash who called these ladies donkeys. You're gonna talk about that courtesy or I don't know what! You will speak to someone about who will turn to the Messengers. On the other hand, you do not seem to know the political scene of Serbia. You don't seem to know that there's a triple pact in Vojvodina that has nothing to do with the SRS. The three-way pact is in power: Tadic - Canak - Karic. There are no Serbian radicals in the Vojvodina government. There are Serbian radicals in several cities throughout Vojvodina. When you mention paved roads and streets, let me inform you, I just received a message that there are a lot of steam rollers leaving tomorrow in Novi Sad. Tomorrow at 1:00 p.m., it's scheduled to begin the asphalting of many suburban cities. To inform the citizens of Novi Sad, that they know that from tomorrow they're going to have an asphalting action in many suburban cities tomorrow at exactly 1:00 p.m. On the other hand, two months ago, a corruption and crime deal started. That action continues. Many who stole and took from citizens, but not because we don't love them, not because they think otherwise, not because they belong to yours or any other political party, but because they really did participate. Not like Djelic, when he thinks of it, and afterwards he says to me, "Well, you know, it's not for everyone, it had to be that way. No, but if there's any serious evidence, if there's any serious matter, then he's going to go to the authorities. As I can see, there are many today. When you talk about that robbery in the previous period, it may have been the most pronounced in the Vojvodina area. It is therefore very important that the Serbian Radicals win next time in the province's elections. Just because of the system, they didn't get an absolute majority, which is that in the second round, for the half that's chosen by the majority system, you all get together against the SRS, so after that, you make the most of it. So next time it's going to be a lot different, and people are going to want resistance and a fight with robbers, with those who destroy the country. It is true, I agree with you on one thing: there is nothing new, the citizens of Vojvodina do not live better. On the contrary, the citizens of Vojvodina, as far as this is concerned, have not removed any chain or lock, as promised. The people of Vojvodina have not changed anything, the same power has continued as before, unfortunately. That's what's true. The only thing that's not true is that the SRS is involved in this business. Unfortunately, we are the opposition political party in that parliament, although we have told some today who are forming power at the province level that we would like to rule with them, take responsibility, show that it can be otherwise, to show that it can be better. But they didn't want to. At all costs, they wanted to go with DS to power, that they formed it and that they could manage it, that they could do what they wanted. (President: Mr. Wolfie, time. ) Thank you for your kindness, Mr. Markovic. We respect the will of the citizens of Serbia, as we respect the will of the citizens of Vojvodina, and we will never make a problem about it. Don't tell the truths here, don't say what's really not true. I would ask you to come out and say when any of us in the hallway said anything ugly to you, when anyone looked at you in any way, and I don't know what they did yet. It's simply something that shows how and how you try to rule, how and how you use perfidious tricks, and never do anything for the country or for the people not to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14671	Mr. Wolfie, I know you've been waiting 18.00 hours, but it's not right, you've been talking for five minutes. Let the others speak until 6:00. Time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14672	On the other hand, I just want to thank Mr. Angelkovic. He's right, Mr. Angelkovic, about everything he said. I don't understand what he said about love, but I do know what he said about bread. As far as bread is concerned, that's all true. That's why I expect Mr. Angelkovic to join the SRS request and bring down this and this government. In the end, I would ask you, Mr. Chairman, to question the quorum, to determine whether we have a quorum or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-25-0.u14673	It's obvious there's no point in establishing the quorum in three minutes to 1800 hours. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
