ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u19991	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 93 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than 1/3 of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Nikola Novakovic, Susana Grubjesic, Ksenija Milivojevic and Dragan Rafaelovic. We move to the 2nd point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Voluntary Pension Fundes and PENSION PLANS (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs at the bill: Miloljub Albianić, Zoran Andjelković, Zoran Krasić, Vjerica Rade, Nemanja Sarović, Momir Marković, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Dragoljub Stamenković and Veroljub Arsić, as well as amendments to the Committee on Labour, Borač and Social Affairs. You have received reports from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee. National MP Miloljub Albianic wrote a letter withdrawing the amendment to Article 39. It's a bill of law. The Legislative Committee is, on the basis of Article 146(2). Rules of Procedure, dismissed as the untimely amendments of MP Susana Grubjesic to Articles 23, 27, 30, 31, 39, 46 and 51. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. One announcement: The 41st session of the Justice and Administration Committee will be held on Thursday, 22 September 2005, starting at 10:30 in the third floor hall. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u19992	You, Mr. Chairman, have read who has submitted amendments to this bill. You have read the position of the Legislative Committee that all amendments are legally possible. You've probably read the position of the board of directors not to accept these amendments. But we don't have the government's opinion on these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u19993	Following an emergency procedure, the government has no obligation to give its opinion, and it will deliver its opinion at the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u19994	Do you know why I'm asking this question? It's in direct connection with this amendment that made me come out for this pay phone. I don't see why the government wouldn't accept this amendment. Before we begin the discussion in particular, it would be good if someone from the government at least sent the paper, because they can't come and let us know anymore -- we accept this amendment, we don't accept this amendment, that we know when we're explaining how far to explain. It's a waste of 15 minutes to explain this amendment here when there's no one from the government, and maybe in the voting day we get a notice that the government has accepted this amendment. What, then, is efficiency, and what was the purpose of changing our Rules of Procedure? But, well, since you've concluded that you're working this way, I'm going to think that the government has not accepted this amendment. To begin by stating that we are on the second item of the agenda, it is the draft law on voluntary pension funds and pension plans. It is directed by Mladjan Dinkic, the third pillar of PIO. Article 4 regulates the legal form of a voluntary pension fund management company. Government, judging by the look and text of Article 4. The draft law considers that this should be a closed stock company, that founders can be domestic and foreign legal and natural persons, that a domestic legal entity with majority government capital cannot be the founder, exceptional banks and insurance companies with majority government or social capital can be the founders of a management company's body. The last attitude – legal and physical persons can be shareholders only in one management society. We have submitted the amendment, and we ask that the entire Article 4 change, to get a different look, much more precise, much clearer. It would have to read like this: "The management company is a company established and operated as a stock company". After Article 1, new positions 2, 3 and 4 are added which read as follows: "The core capital of the management company cannot be provided through public emissions of actions. The management company's actions are simple actions in the name of the company. The management company can't issue priority actions. "We asked that the last position of this member, in the government's version, be changed and that it reads: "The legal and physical person can only be a shareholder in one management society. "As you can see, this is just a precision of what was probably the idea of a promoter, but much clearer, not so much because of the very content of Article 4. The draft law, but because of legal status, is the legal position of the management company which is reflected in the following provisions of this proposal. I'm sure the Government's representative is here, and by any chance he's read the amendments and he knows the text of the law, that he would accept this amendment, because there really is no reason why this amendment would not be accepted. As long as I'm here for this pay phone, I have to point out why the adoption of this amendment is important, and from the point of view of the next members of this law. It is important to reduce the impact of the National Bank of Serbia. Since the DOS came to power, regardless of appearance, size, the essence hasn't changed. Where are the finances, there's the G17 plus. The National Bank of Serbia received a total primate compared to banks, absolute power over insurance companies, and is significantly asked about securities of value, and now, also for voluntary pension funds. The National Bank of Serbia has become an alpha and omega of everything and everything. There's no more record commissions, no more finance, no more government, no more government, no more government, no more government, no more government, no more government, no more government. And this is all about state administration affairs in the part where they provide the safety of these companies' operations for the management of a voluntary pension fund. It is very important that these funds be under rigorous control of the state, because they work with the assets of natural persons, the assets that are allocated, increased, kept for the day when a member of a voluntary pension fund should be a beneficiary of his or her assets, should be available to his or her temporary assets in a voluntary pension fund account. 20th and some place in this law is the provision that the National Bank of Serbia is obliged to make it closer to the regulation, so that it also rules on human resources policy, and when it comes to the rules of business, the rules of investment, investment opportunities, the scale of investment. It all depends on the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. That would be -- the younger you miss, the more Jelasic welcomes it, or our people realize "what you don't pay on the bridge, you'll pay on the pot". Such interference, however, cannot be approved by the executive authorities in the National Assembly. We have submitted very few amendments to this bill for two reasons. The first reason is that with the corresponding number of amendments we want to point out the failed concept of this law and give us time to let the public in Serbia know what is going on with the voluntary pension fund. As a party, we advocate the formation of this fund and that third pillar of insurance, but not in this way how Mladjan Dinkic designed it. He came up with the following way of voluntary retirement insurance: that apparently, according to the principle of free choice, every citizen can decide whether to be a member of a voluntary pension fund, to enter into the system of that voluntary pension insurance, to pay according to his request the appropriate amount and thus create an impression of the largest number of citizens of Serbia – so that, what we care about, these are their funds, they invest, how they will pass it does not interest us. It would be about the reason that Dafina and Jezda, so if they were killed, they suffered and took that risk, as said Vlatkovic, governor: "Well, no one forced them to go there, but they went voluntarily, and it was a risk." The audience needs to make an impression: well, what we would like to do now is "how much money, how much music" that has money, he's going to invest, he's going to use that right, that's it. Your property at a certain point. Why would the state get so involved in this? Then there are other opinions, which say - yes, it is available to everyone, someone will invest 200-300 euros, someone will invest 20 euros as their contribution; why should we now enter these property items of an individual? But there's a big prank here. Here there is a hoax in the system that probably 11 hundred hundred legal entities, if they provide the founding capital that is foreseen by a million euros, forms a management company. This management company designs a voluntary pension fund, citizens become members, of course, if they want to, assume a commitment, pay those contributions, but this management company takes 5%. There's even one provision here that the management company is not even obliged to keep records, it can trust someone else. The fraud is complete in such a way that, when it is seen where a voluntary pension fund can invest its assets, which provides through the contributions of members, where it will turn mainly into securities of value, state securities of value. So Mladjan Dinkic designed that he should not be in debt with commercial banks, he should not be in debt with the International Monetary Fund. It can be well-indebted by the emission of debt securities, so whether it's the Republic of Serbia, the National Bank of Serbia, some commercial bank (we'll get to that member who regulates business), and since the state is the biggest guarantee, the lowest risk is when buying securities of value of which is the publisher of a state or a para-state body, is not that, in the end, not relevant. In this way, it provides funding for the future, to show, likely, the ability to overcome the liquidity problems of the current funding. Why is it peaceful for the next ten years? Because it is absolutely certain that for the next 10 years no one will be a beneficiary of this voluntary pension fund, because under certain conditions these funds are used, although they are always property of a member of a voluntary pension society, or a fund. That's the whole math thing. If they are also aware of how data on business are protected, and given that there are no restrictions, they will not start at all, but probably 3-5 companies or 3-5 interested organisations are already planning to engage in this system, to manipulate free funds. It will always be free funds, so you know, as long as there is no specific obligation of this voluntary pension fund, so there will be money from Cyprus, there will be other funds. Practically, money laundering will be legalized for individuals, not for an ordinary man who can invest 20, 50 to 100 euros a month to pay for his voluntary pension insurance or disability insurance. No, but those garaganes, the big ones who receive 200-300,000 euros a month, will be protected like bears. Voluntary pension fund is not a legal person, it can't be held accountable for its obligations, because a voluntary pension fund does not enter into some bonds. The bonds are made by a voluntary pension fund management company. There is practically formal protection of property, provided mine and funding for all of these innovations by Mladjan Dinkic, some selected banks and some future selected pension funds. It's the whole game. A truly ordinary citizen can say – well, we don't care at all, why should we who will never be voluntarily provided there worry now that they will operate a voluntary pension fund. Now, that's what the biggest scam is about. The founding capital for the establishment and management of a voluntary pension fund is at a low level -- just a million euros. What benefits are acquired by the founders of this voluntary pension fund management company cannot even be seen at this time. With these few amendments, we just want to point out the fundamental gaps in this law that have the wrong concept. You precisely from a provision to a provision that speaks of personnel, organization, etc., you can put next to each member the name and name of a man from the Republic... (President: You're out of time. ) What are the terms and conditions of management, which are the terms and conditions of the bank, everything can be translated into the name and name and name and does not need to be interpreted as this complicated general norm. There are even exaggerations here compared to the practice that exists in other countries with such or similar funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u19995	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u19996	Mr. Mihailovic, you just explained to your colleague Krasic that, according to the Rules of Procedure, ministers are not obliged to be here when discussing the laws under emergency procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u19997	I'm sorry, just a correction, I didn't say they weren't obliged to be here, but they weren't obliged to give an opinion when the procedure was urgent.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u19998	Okay, both of them, I can see they're not here and we don't have the government's opinion. If that's the case, it's another piece of evidence of how badly you've adopted the Rules of Procedure. However, it stands in the Rules of Procedure and the obligation of ministers to sit here periodically and to respond to MPs on topics of interest to the MPs. It's just something written in the Rules of Procedure. Regardless of what the government did not have to inform us of its opinion, we think it was necessary, especially when it comes to one law that is a complete newspaper in Serbia's legal system. Otherwise, it would be normal and common if the MP submitted the amendment and explained it here, explaining it, among other things, that a representative of the Government would eventually accept those arguments and accept the amendment, or that this same representative of the Government would come out and answer his arguments to a MP who also has the opportunity to say - I give up the amendment. Of course, there is no such communication in this House, even though you boast of certain special successes both in democratisation and law-making. You can make as many laws as you want when you don't participate in the debate you from the ruling majority. You are not even here to listen, let alone participate in the debate on the laws passed in this House. So today we are talking about a bill on voluntary pension funds and pension plans. This is a newspaper in our legal system, but we Serbian radicals are not fascinated, as the minister tried to tell us about this innovation here, because the SRS is, I'm sure, the only party that has long planned and voluntary retirement insurance in its programme, and the first and second pillars, etc. So it's not foreign to us, but we would do it in a much better way, so that the citizens of Serbia who will benefit from voluntary pension funds from them would benefit from it and where they would be sure that their funds will be properly preserved and made available to them at the moment they are ready to use them. This law does not guarantee it, and so did counterpart Krasic, because this is the law of a party that makes up the government of Serbia, the finance minister and governor of the National Bank. It is simply inadmissible for the governor of the National Bank, i.e. the bank to leave so many opportunities for all the sublaws arising under this law to be passed by the Governor of the National Bank. First of all, it's unacceptable to make a law in which there is no maximum regulation of matter that is the subject of this law. We Serbian radicals constantly convince you and appeal to fellow lawmakers from the parliamentary groups who vote for government laws, must be kept in mind, regardless of the government's support, lawyers must make sure that they represent the view that the laws passed in this House must be clear, precise, concise and that law-making does not leave the possibility of abuse, i.e. to minimise the possibility of abuse in law enforcement. You may not be aware, but whoever is proposing these laws to you and how well he is aware that he is proposing laws that are in fact just a framework that regulates some matter, and the essence is left to someone who will do so far from the eyes of the public. In this law on voluntary pension funds and pension plans, this possibility is left to the governor of the National Bank, and today it is Jelasic. You know very well that this man does not deserve to be left in charge of such things; a man who is capable of taxing on the purchase of a villa. That's what the public knows, and who knows what else he doesn't know. He and Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, manage these funds in the way this law predicted, it is inadmissible. We all know and you all know and the citizens of Serbia know what Mladjan Dinkic did to the banks in Serbia, what he did to the insurance companies, where he involved everything. It is unacceptable for the National Assembly to pass a law that continues to allow Dinkic and Jelasic to dispose of social money with their abuses. They're used to it from the time of Jazda and Dafina, no matter how much they transferred to someone else yesterday, but remember who was leaving all that money, who was getting donations from abroad, who invested those donations in those pyramid banks, who only raised that money before the banks broke. Of course, the whole of Serbia knows it wasn't only Serbian radicals. Just one more sentence, apparently when the government proposed, when she prescribed this bill, she made one mistake. They had before them the law of Slovenia and Croatia. They did not copy from word to word either, but they copied one part from Croatian and one part from Slovenian law, and only then was something that did not look like the law. If they didn't have experts to make a whole law, it would be better if they'd prescribed one or the other or another, anyway. This combination has indeed led to a very bad legal proposal. Article 5, where I have proposed on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, erasing the position 4 speaks of the company's activity for management, and in Article 3, where the meaning of certain terms stands, the voluntary pension fund management company is designated as "a company that organises and manages voluntary pension funds, in accordance with the law (hereinafter: management company). "Therefore, Article 5 provides for the management company to carry out the work of organising and managing voluntary pension funds. In Section 2: "The Management Society can organise and manage several voluntary pension funds". In point 3: "The Management Society manages a voluntary pension fund, makes investment decisions, makes programmed payments, performs administrative and marketing affairs and activities and other tasks, in accordance with this law." In Section 5: "The Management Society may carry out exclusively the work referred to in Article 1". This is what this member should look like, if you accept the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party, which stipulates that Article 4 of this article should be deleted, which says: "The management society can trust the performance of administrative and marketing affairs and activities of other persons, and the responsibility of the management society is not excluded". Is this formula normal to you? We're not in the Serbian Radical Party. It is inadmissible that the management company can transfer these jobs to other persons. What faces? What are those faces, Krasic said earlier, that we are now reading between the lines who is written where, without being seen so directly who is scheduled for which jobs under the application of this law. Especially if he transfers these jobs to other persons, at this point we don't know which faces, but the promoter certainly knows, then the question is how will he remain the responsibility of society, if a third person does the jobs. So from one aspect to another, we find it unacceptable to have a Article 4 within this law. We've suggested that Section 4. be deleted. We didn't expect the Minister here today, because we know he can't show up at the National Assembly. He fears the truth that he hears from us at all times, but I expect from a colleague who will support this law to support this amendment as well. Think about it, it's meaningful, it doesn't touch the concept of the law, but it doesn't leave the possibility of abuse, or the application of the law, if this amendment is accepted, it'll at least be fairer in this part and there won't be any third party who will manage these social funds. I especially appeal to my fellow lawyers. Think about it and you'll see that it makes sense to adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u19999	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20000	That the law lacks only names and last names, here's one more piece of evidence, and that's Article 7. It's a bill of law. The title above this article is - the height of the underlying capital. It is prescribed that the monetary share of the management company's core capital, when set up, is at least 1m euros, in dinar equivalent, at the middle rate of the NBS on the day of payment. The financial part of the underlying capital shall be paid to the bank’s temporary account in full before the registration of the management company in the register of economic operators. The entry is so complicated that those who think they are registering this type of closed stock company, unless they are in good relations with Jelasic, cannot even manage to regulate, because there are interviews, shootings, everything and everything. He further says that the management company is obliged to ensure in its business that the company's capital is always at a level that is not less than the dinar equivalent of a million euros. There is no more or less god knows what to object to, except perhaps that amount, whether a million euros is an adequate amount for the founding capital of a management society. The management company is obliged to compensate the members of the voluntary pension fund if it causes damage to its business. They may in their own business cause damage if the funds of a voluntary pension fund are placed in some risky business, in risk charters of value or placed under conditions that are more unfavourable than those that exist on the capital market. The last position, and we ask that this last position be deleted, reads: "The national bank of Serbia is closer to prescribing the structure and way of calculating the capital of the 4th member's position. "This can only exist in Dinkic and Jelasic's direction. If the same regulations are taken, the regulations governing this matter in other countries, this authority will be seen not to be granted to the governor of the NB, but to insert into the law provisions on the structure of the company's capital for the management of the voluntary pension fund. There are cases where it's said: up to 50%, less than 50%, in which it can be invested, etc. We're talking about a management company. We're not talking about a voluntary pension fund. That's two different things. It's obvious here that you're going to exaggerate that importance, first of all, Governor NBS. I would just remind, the public is well-known, such governors, I speak in the plural, will remain remembered for shutting down banks, after withdrawing the work of some banks, because they openly say they do not want to execute the judgments of the highest courts in this country, sometimes the SRJ, now in the Republic of Serbia, where final administrative acts by the governor of the NBS on the withdrawal of the work permit by some banks. We now have several banks that are airless – neither liquidated nor bankrupt. These procedures have been in some way initiated, and may not have been initiated, given that in the administrative dispute they have succeeded in revoking the solutions that have been withdrawn from the work permit. It's the same situation with insurance companies. Even the same operation was carried out by a group of NBS workers who shut down banks, now closed down insurance companies. You read in the paper that a real war is being waged between governors, insurance companies and banks, on the one hand, and on the third hand, the judiciary in the Republic of Serbia. It's just that we have two stubborn governors and they say I'm the law, it's got to be like this, what kind of court, I don't care about the court, I don't care about regulations, I don't care about anything. Of course, they feed on the fact that some judges are arrested, and they say, "Behold, we were right." That could be an argument. Furthermore, we did not deliberately submit an amendment to Article 10, but we wanted to connect that member to some of these members to whom we submitted the amendment. See what's written in article 10. So, since the founders of this management society, you must urgently go to Dinkic and Jelasic to get close, because if you do not get close, you will not be able to fulfill this. In addition to the request for authorisation for the work of the founders of the management company, they submit: 1) founding act; 2) evidence that a temporary account has paid a cash amount; (3) a list of shareholders by name, name, address; (4) for shareholders - legal persons holding a qualified participation, more than 10%: (1) a decision to register, or certified translation of the copy of the copy of the register; (2) a copy of the shareholder's book, i.e. evidence from another relevant register; (3) a financial report, with the opinion of the authorised auditor for the last three years; (4) evidence of the competent authority of the tax settlement, not more than six months. Now for shareholders - natural persons: (1) evidence that this person has not been a member of the management, supervisory board or of the holder of special powers in the legal person over which the winding-up procedure has been carried out; (2) evidence that this person is not unconditionally convicted of criminal offences, etc. (3) evidence of the competent authority of the tax settlement. Then under number 6), all together for both natural and legal persons – rules of operation of the management company; under 7) business plan for the first three years; 8) list of proposed members of the management board (means, they do not yet exist); then, 9) evidence of organisational and technical training. In addition to the application for the authorisation to manage the fund, the founders shall submit a draft standardised membership contract in a voluntary pension fund; a draft prospectus and a shortened prospectus of the fund; a draft contract with the bank; a list of persons to perform the tasks of the fund manager; a tariff rule. Then when you go forward, the governor does an evaluation, and that's about socio-economic justification and similarity. It's not clear here that a company should have a congregation. They say management and supervisory board, they're not interested in anything else, etc. Not to get to the part where something else is prescribed, and the highlight of this kidnapping, which you who vote for this law are given to Jelasic and Mladjan Dinkic, is contained in the last position of Article 31: "The National Bank of Serbia prescribes conditions and the way property of voluntary pension funds can be invested abroad. "In all the laws in our environment is defined in some percentage, 10 or 15 percent, and here it is not, depending on his Majesty the governor depends on how much the management company will invest in foreign securities for voluntary pension funds. This doesn't need to be a man of expertise, this is what we call a different name in the people. For these things, experts are thieves and no one else. Now you're forcing us from the Serbian Radical Party to vote for this, and I'm telling you that in a few years, if this law goes through, shareholders, voluntary pension fund management companies, because this law does not intend to regulate their relations. Wartime castods of a bank with a company to manage this fund, members of a voluntary pension fund will imagine where their funds are. Yesterday I reminded you of examples, we had in America some funds that were similar to the third pillar of pension and disability insurance and broke because those who have a dominant position with regard to the management of a voluntary pension fund invested those funds in such risky jobs. I would like to draw attention in advance to the fact that we will never vote on this basis for citizens' claims to rise to the public debt of the Republic of Serbia, because there has been a mania here that everything politics screws up changes to the state, so the state becomes a guarantee, the state becomes a debtor to the citizens because of someone's failed trip. There's only crime behind this voluntary fund. You can read that between these points of view. This is where the names and last names are missing. It is clear that the three will surely be on the move because they are in good relations with Jelasic, two or three are still thinking, some banks are reporting, and Djelic has already reassembled, he is attacking, but he is attacking because of those from the DS and because he has some political ambitions, but he is interested in the fact that this law is on the agenda. I warn you in advance that the papazian is consciously made of the concept, that in that papaziania the job is finished, and then under the pressure of some investors, there's already experience, then the younger one will change, and in a year we'll have a change again, so in two years' change. After a few years, a very significant part will come to light that when the time comes for members of a voluntary pension fund to withdraw their funds, then someone will remember and say that it is personal consumption and that they need to be taxed. Now it's nice to tell citizens that it won't be taxed, but when the time comes to return, the law will change and it will be taxed as personal income. So, in advance, we're letting you know what kind of marifetteluk is hiding behind a bill like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20001	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20002	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, here it is as if there is a proposal that everything regulated by law, some other legal provisions, laws that are already in force and applied for years be put out of force and that then one institution itself and without the consent of the Serbian Parliament brings laws, adopts regulations and regulates certain areas. Articles 7 and 8 are very similar in one part. In Article 7. The NBS shall provide for the structure and method of calculating the capital referred to in Article 4. Why do we need the Accounting Act? Isn't it defined as calculating the amount of the capital of a company, of a shareholder, etc. So this matter is already regulated by certain legal regulations. Why now the NBS has the right to have those legal regulations applicable to all those who participate in any kind of business, whether financial or market, from where the law of the NBS is to be segregated and to regulate this matter by law and prescribe some new regulations. Whose wish is that? Even if you did it out of your best intentions, or you're trying to convince us that it's from the best intentions, we don't trust you. We know how you conducted your privatisation and how you do it now. Some of the laws you've passed need to be changed and that's a fact, but not in this way that one body prescribes and writes new laws. Article 8 states that the management company is obliged to meet the minimum conditions of organisational and technical training prescribed by the NBS. The National Bank of Serbia prescribes the conditions of organisational and technical training. And even some laws, such as the tobacco law, are prescribed technical conditions that must look like one of the most ordinary trades, but the law requires what one warehouse looks like, what a manipulative space looks like, so it's said to have a sanitary knot, a certain height, but it's all regulated by law, and it's all written in the law. All you need to know is who has the right to make a final account, how to make a license, so it's all regulated by law. There's no National Bank, there's no National Bank involved. Somewhere, though, you're breaking the laws when it comes to privatisation, because when a privatisation contract is made (and I'm talking about capital), so someone says they're going to have to invest in this company a million euros, so a man comes in and evaluates his own car that's 10 years old and says, "He's a million euros," he books it as a basic asset and an investment. Did you cancel a contract like that? You're not. Have you controlled such contracts? It may be, but why didn't you react? Some gentleman writes - investment maintenance and painting, and that's liquid maintenance, but it costs more painting than the whole building. It's his investment, that's how you enforce the laws. Or, let's talk a little bit about how banks are hijacked, why don't somebody think about kidnapping these voluntary pension funds? How and how the first corporate bank was taken away, let's talk about it. Let's talk about how Serbia's National Bank is constantly increasing its deposit, making banks simply increase interest rates on the market, and then reducing their credits and telling them – you can't do business anymore, you don't have enough capital. Article 7 of the last position states: "The management company is obliged to ensure that in its business the capital of society is always at a level that is not less than one million euros in dinar equivalent. "How effective is it going to be, and how passive is it going to be? Will the National Bank accept or not, how will it run the investment of that fund, how will it manage the assets of that fund and how will it manage the free funds? Will the National Bank prescribe, will she also ask for a deposit for these societies? So wherever you turn – the National Bank, it is given some authority, but no one asks whether the National Bank will enforce those powers in accordance with the law or by law. Our experiences with you are such that you've mostly done everything beyond the law. So, just one little wrinkle in some legal proposal -- this is closer to being governed by the National Bank, and all those legal regulations that have been passed and that regulate that matter no longer apply, because otherwise said the National Bank. I think that this policy is certainly meant to put all possible financial institutions under the control of a small number of people, but not during your power, but for a long period of time. Now, the problem is that these people who have such a desire are very close to you and that they will most likely succeed in all of this, and the MPs who vote for such bill are, in any case, moral, if not criminal accomplices for something like this. Moral are, and it'll pay, that price in the first election. If you look at all the legal regulations that have been passed, we won't go back long, three to four months, and you will see that whenever any authority is given to the government or to the competent ministry, immediately after two or three members, all this is annulled and given to the governor, even if he has the right to change the decision of both the Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the finance minister. There is only one question – why so much desire for so much power if someone really wants to work for the benefit of Serbian citizens? If he has the desire to have so much power, then it is certain that he is not working for the benefit of Serbian citizens, but for the interest of a group of individuals. That is why we do not trust you, and when it comes to such legal proposals that give the right to an institution, in addition to the laws that are valid and that apply to all other societies, they will only not apply to voluntary pension funds. Then the question arises why does the Serbian Parliament pass laws if someone has the right to disobey them.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20003	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20004	We have submitted another amendment if we can remind you that these things should not be done. It's a shame we can't pass a regulation forbidding Mladjan Dinkic to propose laws. It is, however, only the right of the people, he decides best in the election. You see, experts, these coursers, what they came up with, Article 11. The draft law reads this way, it says - additional documentation, therefore: "In 15 days from the day of receipt of the work permit application, the National Bank of Serbia may request other evidence relevant for the assessment of the company's rating of the founders of management and the assessment of the justification for the establishment of the company, which the founders are obliged to deliver within 15 days of the date of receipt of the letter. "Station 2: "The National Bank of Serbia is co-operating with other state bodies and organisations, collecting documents and other information of importance for solving upon request for authorisation to work. "You see, and this when placed in the context of the next member, which begins: "The National Bank of Serbia issues a work permit when it determines the validity of the requirement of Article 10(1) of this law... "I don't know, if you'd gone to Murtina to find a man who'd never seen a law in his life, he'd have written you a better regulation. I guess when an authority decides whether or not the solution will give, whether to adopt or reject the request, it determines whether the conditions are met by law. Where can anyone assess the justification for the establishment of this society? I don't know. For 20 years we have fought against this assessment of justification, likeness and everything else, we have already said – everything is allowed by the Constitution and the law is not prohibited, they are all equal and equal to the law, in order to achieve a real one you must meet the conditions prescribed by law. You are now changing the whole logic of modern civilization. You give Jelasic the right to evaluate the justification of the establishment of this society. He's not capable of doing that grade. How can he carry out an evaluation of justification? I guess he's assessing whether the person who filed the request meets the legal requirements. Furthermore, I've just read to you how many documents are required. It is not this much of a demand for documents because of the stability, security and reliability of the determination of all facts. No, but that many are disgusted, that they can't provide one of these documents, and then Jelasic will dissipate it on equal honours, and the few Labus will, then the Dinkics, and the Djelics, and the few, and the few, and the few, from abroad, will, because he thus interprets justification. Is it possible for a person who meets all the requirements prescribed by law not to be given a work permit because he has failed to meet the conditions laid down in Article 11, it is not justified, Jelasic has estimated that it is not justified, and this cannot stand in the law anymore. For 12 or 13 years, we have been ousting from all the laws of this provision, and you return these decrees, and you are worse than Tito; for Tito said, "One party, so what she concludes, will be." You need to be compatible with the multiparty system. You have to understand that there is no justification, celery, etc. in a multiparty system, but either you are applying the law, and you have to apply it, or you are coming down from power. You can't write a name and a last name in law. This member should be interpreted -- he will be given a license based on what evidence is sought, for one whom Jelasic, Dinkic, Labus and the company conclude he is similar. How is he like that? Well, how much money is paid there. It's your criterion, not your G17 plus MP, but these two three guys who are bright and dressing. They don't slip, they put it loudly in the law. Next, look at all the paper he's been putting up with. It says - it estimates that it determines the validity of the requirement whether the requirement set out in Article 10 is valid. So it doesn't even determine whether the terms of the law are met. No, if it's a valid request. In the same Article 12, it says – from the day of the subsequent receipt of the documents and information. Such a formulation can't stand. Then, article 13 says, negative solution. Find me a law, ever since the Balinovac came, so he started giving headlines to the law members, where he writes a negative solution. I don't know why you did this. I don't know why you did this. If you wanted to talk, you could have done it more elegantly. These words you use are contrary to the legal-political system in the Republic of Serbia. It'll always be the opposite. Whatever the new constitution is, it will never be given to a civil servant this authority. It will only be given the right and obligation to determine the facts, but to assess the validity, to assess, to have members of the administration, etc. - calls for an interview; invite a candidate for a board member, come to the interview, sit at the coffee shop, how we're going to work, yes, you'll be loyal, you'll be honest. Then, during the conversation, Jelasic concluded - yes, but I think he cheated on me. You're withdrawing this law because this law cannot be passed by the National Assembly. I'm sure the SPS doesn't support this either -- what's socio-economically justified, celery and similarity. Publicly, no party advocates a similarity assessment. Only G17 plus requires similarity. In this quest for similarity, you found a modern Davinic and the fallen captains.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20005	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20006	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we from the Serbian Radical Party, when it comes to this law, have clearly said that a fundamental law like this requires citizens of Serbia and Serbia as a state, but not in this way, not with the broad powers of the National Bank of Serbia, not that all prerogatives of power, a decisive role should be placed in the hands of the National Bank of Serbia, especially when we have in mind – although when we talk about laws as general legal acts we should not take into account, in such cases we must – who and ad personam are in our hands. We in the Serbian Radical Party think that it is necessary to regulate it in a completely different way and that the National Bank of Serbia has an incomparably smaller role and incomparably less importance in this sphere, in this area of social life, than it has under this bill of law. At the same time, some here talked about what the G17 Plus party was doing for Serbia. Serbian citizens will say so best in the election. I don't want to do that in particular. I came out here to point out one amazing thing, this morning in the paper we all had a chance to read, except for the ingenious views of the head of our country's co-ordination centre in Kosovo and Metohija, about what is more than autonomy, less than independence. I realized she doesn't know either. Then who knows in Serbia what our policy is? But we've seen something else, something else, about a big affair of the environment being said, and it's an affair -- vests, military equipment, a question of some big thief. Then it's said -- the bribe is 28,000 dinars, 300 euros is a bribe, and it's being held in custody by someone. For 300 euros, the job is 300m euros. Do you think all idiots are in this country? Do you really think nobody's normal in this country? It's not even that 300 euros, you didn't get it right, he paid some hotel bill three or four years ago and car repairs. Guys, I know some people have better things to do, I know some people have to make sure they have 3-4 or 5%; some water, but they don't have to yell in this room, they have to yell out front. Maybe someone on the outside will hear them, maybe get a voice somewhere. So in the affair of business -- 300m euros, car repair and hotel bill of 27,000 dinars is a bribe. You laugh, we laugh, and Serbia fails, and those who are in power think that all citizens are complete idiots. I have to tell you they didn't. Of course not. People see it and people know it. Because in this country, there are those who took two, three, five and seven million euros, which is by recalibrating people, which is a commission from big jobs. There aren't any on the defendant's bench. Where are your ministers? Where are your heads of government, your state and everything else involved? No, but to pursue what he gave 300 euros for a 300m-euro job. Like little children! Where's Davinić? Where's Dinkic? Do you know why there is no Davinic? Now I'm going to tell you, you're coming to me anyway to hear what's true, from the pay phone, Davinic is still thinking, because he thinks he's not guilty of all this, and he's been offered to keep quiet, not to tell who's involved in the whole story, not to talk about how negotiations and conversations have been going on, what's been going on, what's happened. For this, not only will he not be processed, but he will get a seat in Serbia's Montenegrin diplomacy. It's not that it's the height of insolence and insolence, but I have no words. Maybe Marovic isn't involved. Don't let's keep tearing down the state community. Maybe he's not Dinkic either. Is there any other supporter you might be able to arrest, to show such a great force, great courage in the fight against corruption? Maybe he slept for two and a half thousand dinars in a hotel, so he took part in this big corruption. Don't mess with the nation. If you don't have better things to do, I suggest you do a smart job, since you don't have a chance in the Kula elections either – make your children ready tomorrow night, with the Serbian flag, I'll have my son, to cheer for Spain against Croatia. It's a nice job and don't worry. You're gonna do something. Don't worry about you chasing someone, arresting someone, not like God please, because those who went to the hotel for 2.5 thousand dinars, and they had something more expensive and pepper for breakfast, they weren't ordinary. The whole of Serbia is laughing, and everyone wants to cry, because corruption has entered the most pores of the country, all the pores of social life. You're after those who either have nothing to do with it, or are responsible for 300 euros. (President: Time.) ) Thank you, Mr. Mihailovich, for your patience, I'll be done in a few tenths of seconds. Serbia has no time to be confused with those who think putting their heads in the sand and blurring people's eyes can do something about it. Serbia deserves a serious power, a power to deal with criminals, a power to deal with those who buy 1m-euro villas in Dedinj, which buy factories for 10m euros without knowing where they got the money. Who will deal with those who buy or have tens of millions of euros in savings without ever doing anything other than becoming ministers in three months, doing electricity and oil? Here, now, only planes don't drive in the streets of Belgrade. I meet them in something that looks like speedboats - not water, not sea, but roads. Just on planes to see them. In any case, I invite you once again to cheer nice for Spain against Croatia tomorrow. I'll go with you, too, and you don't have better things to do, and for Serbia, you'll do something good. There'll be some honest man on the loose, and some of the corrupt may end up behind bars, but it looks like it'll happen when the radicals win. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20007	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20008	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment submitted by Mr Dragoljub Stamenkovic, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, reflects the state of the country and what Mr Vukic was talking about. The insolence and insolence of Mladjan Dinkic and the authorities in Serbia have almost no end. And attitude 3, you only have one sentence of the explanation of his amendment, I guess, enough to see that this is something that has been unrecorded so far in any draft law, is enough to say that Mr. Stamenkovic, given the way the future finance ministry should be doing, that is, when Dinkic is not minister, and the National Bank of Serbia and that the state is arranged, organised. This kind of thing in one member of the law can't exist this way. It applies to Article 16 and to Law 3. The member speaks of the National Bank of Serbia as a supervisor in all financial activities and cash flows that take place in our country, law enforcement, the business of agencies that have been voted in the past, and the Agency for the Rehabilitation of Banks and others... And again, I ask the question, although the young ministry gentleman can't answer me, because the minister doesn't have one; I'm interested, and that one day Dinkic will have to tell us, why is there a bank recovery account at a private bank, not at the National Bank of Serbia? But when we talk about the National Bank of Serbia and its role, which is unacceptable for the entire financial sector and for the Serbian Radical Party, how it is possible for the 3rd position to read as follows: "When it decides to give consent from the position of the 1st member", it is said, therefore, that the National Bank of Serbia gives consent to the selection of proposed members of the management board and directors of the management companies. Imagine, "The National Bank of Serbia may, if necessary, ask the proposed members of the board, or director, to come personally to the interview." We have indeed been faced with all kinds of insolence and ministers and officials and certain tax authorities – and this is what Mr. Vukic said, that you are building a farce in the system of "the shaking up mountain was born of a mouse", when it comes to the latest armory affair and bribes of the entire 27,000 dinars – but that these powers are given to yourself by the National Bank of Serbia or by someone who will work, it is unacceptable and incredible. This attitude could not be found anywhere, in any bill, and especially the one in which you call on Serbian citizens to invest for the second and third pillars of pension insurance in the fund you intend to set up in the future. Again, I return to the story of several days ago and to the affair that happened in America with the Enron Fund and with its complete failure to be seen as a whole, not only by their own, but by the world's public, with a great warning to citizens because of the way this fund is established in Serbia and this kind of authority, which will have owners, who are ossions, boasts and laws used to carry out their will, not to protect citizens' interests, that both this future fund and the way in which pensioners and taxpayers and all those in the country who are not willing to refer to Mladjan Dinkic will be worse and worse. This really needs to be put into effect once and it should be said loud and clear that it is unacceptable for anyone to have such a role as the National Bank of Serbia in the country in general and to be given such legal powers, with all the passion of the finance minister, who has not today honored his attention and this highest assembly home, the most legislative body. He's gone. There's a lot of work to do -- to see what's in those 27,000 dinars, how many nights are in hotels, how many oil replacements, or change in car drives. As for his brothers, this godmother's couple Hamovic and Lazarevic, the electric mafia and others with whom he is and so that in close godfather's and friendly and business relations, let them keep working, let them rob the citizens, let them do whatever they want, and he will, by the system of the greatest thief, shout "keep the thief" to do all this to the citizens. Both pensioners and unemployed and all taxpayers see that it's high time to make real changes and make changes better. Serbia's Radical Party and therefore in a municipality in Serbia, the municipality of Kula comes to the polls Sunday, under the slogan "for power without corruption and for power against corruption and crime". Make sure we keep doing that. Such proposals, such members of the law, are merely an additional basis for those who are in power to behave irresponsiblely, arrogantly and ossionly and to plant behind the neck and spine whoever they want and who are not willing to.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20009	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 140(5), Rules of Procedure, Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have submitted an amendment to Article 23. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Labour, the Boring and Social Affairs have tabled an amendment to Article 27. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 140(5), Rules of Procedure, Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs tabled an amendment to Article 30. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 140(5), Rules of Procedure, Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have submitted an amendment to Article 31. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Miloljub Albianic to Article 33. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have submitted an amendment to Article 39. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have submitted an amendment to Article 46. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Miloljub Albianic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miloljub Albianic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 51st Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20010	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to Article 23, I have not responded because the Committee has made an amendment that can be accepted in some way, so I will, in the end, withdraw my amendment in favour of the Committee's amendment. When it comes to Article 51, there are several elements here, and I'm talking about it, and I'm talking first of all about a second position, that intermediaries can be financial institutions designated by the National Bank of Serbia. The last stance is that the National Bank of Serbia keeps records of intermediaries and natural persons and is closer to regulating the conditions for issuing the permit. The basic question is whether the National Bank should do these jobs. I am convinced, of course, that the National Bank should not be involved in these affairs and almost nowhere in the world, except in Uruguay, the National Bank does not deal with these matters. The reasons for the ministry and the proposings may be that the other institutions have not matured, are not trained, they cannot control all of this, so at this point the National Bank of Serbia needs to work, because it has that professional part of the team, etc. However, that is not enough explanation. If this law, at the very least, is not important for today and yesterday, this law is some perspective, when we are in a better economic situation, when workers and employers can rightly pay contributions to compulsory pension insurance and come into a situation to give additionally for this third pillar. If we accept that the National Bank is somehow a controller, that it gives consent to who will be the mediator and control everything in this area, in voluntary retirement insurance, then the question is how can the National Bank determine who will be the mediator. What does that mean to determine? So she can sit down and say -- this bank, I don't know, this institution can be a mediator without anyone competing for something like that. What if the National Bank appoints a bank to be an intermediary, and she says, "I won't do it." Then why is it given the right of the National Bank to determine by its own means and to determine who it is in the National Bank? Well, I guess you should make criteria. The last stance says the National Bank will keep track of intermediaries and natural persons and determine closer conditions. When it already determines closer conditions, then it should be said that some tender, competition, I know, and institutions that want to be reported, and therefore it determines who will be. Not in the previous position, it determines closer conditions. It's a completely illogical thing. Why do we give the National Bank the right to determine someone who doesn't even sign up for such jobs, who doesn't want to do such jobs? I propose that this point 2 be deleted and that it be restructured in that case and attitude 6; means that the position by which the National Bank determines, without someone meeting the conditions, without having called for a tender or a contest, without calling for those who want to be mediators to apply without giving consent, conditionally saying, to determine who will be. I'm against it at all that the National Bank or any institution is self-determining, without creating unique conditions for anyone to apply. That's the point. No one needs to be in any area, or in this area to have the right to appoint someone, without anyone applying to meet any conditions or to do business. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20011	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20012	The Serbian Radical Party will support the amendment if the parliamentary group that proposed it continues to be in the position of the amendment. We can go a little further than my predecessor said, and this is seen in the following views, except that the National Bank of Serbia wants everything when it comes to these intermediaries. The amendment specifically refers to item 2 which says "mediators can be financial institutions designated by the National Bank of Serbia. "However, we go on: "The Management and Intermediate Society", means those ordered by the National Bank of Serbia, "can, by a special contract, hire individuals who must possess a license to perform the tasks of the 1st member, which is issued by the National Bank of Serbia. "It's something taken over by the Insurance Act. That's not the problem either. The following point is added: "For the proceedings and damage caused by intermediaries and natural persons, next to them, by the management company. "Neither the management company determined him to be a mediator nor an authorized natural person, and it is responsible for his work and the damage he does in solidarity with him. Where's the National Bank that gave them permission to work? Why isn't the National Bank of Serbia responding? She prescribed the terms, assessed the resemblance, gave permission to someone, and didn't ask the insurance company if it was compatible or not. This concept of a voluntary pension fund law corresponds most to a single concept for the National Bank of Serbia to be a voluntary pension fund management company. I don't mind, but write it down. Just write it down. There's no problem. Then it would be some kind of change between the second and third pillars of insurance. This is a failed mix. You mixed something up here, but the product didn't come out, something bad came out. It's a bad barf, that's what I have to tell you. We haven't reported on any amendments, and now I won't comment on why someone didn't report for their amendment and how the amendment came about, but be careful, the management company's compensation, and that's a dozen of them, have two or three people who meet these conditions, and they manage, give a warrant to the bank where they're going to place these funds of a voluntary pension fund and in what kind of securities of value. That's the minimum this law prescribes. Everything else isn't a commitment. This group of people based on this intervention, look what it has, a fee, and that's the income of the management company. The fee for the management company's services consists of: 1) compensation for the payment of pension contributions, at a rate of not more than 3% of the value of the payments made. It'll be 3%. When it's said most in Serbia, that's how much it's going to be. So for each payment, 3% is the income of the management company. Point 2) of the fund management fee, at a rate of not more than 2% per year from the value of the assets of a voluntary pension fund. Every year, the property of a voluntary pension fund increases, such a logic is increased, the nominal number of members is increased, the assets accumulated, the second years in the system are those who joined the previous years and have their property and are being paid up next year and the property is increasing, individually and by number. That's a terrible income. In these surrounding countries, this is defined in percentages of 0.8. Is that right? 0,8 is specified. We did not want to submit amendments, because then it would be – you are always against etc. Of course, what my predecessor said in the amendment, I think it logically implies this last attitude to erase. This doesn't make sense, it really doesn't make sense. There is a law to be written here, Radovan Jelasic is authorized to make a list of who could do this job and end the story. The G17 will vote immediately, and they will say: the coalition, so that we may remain; and let us vote, and those who are not in heaven or on earth, say: "There will be no choice." That's not how the law can be passed, that's not how the law looks. The most important thing for a member of a voluntary pension fund is contained in Article 62. It is said: "The right of a member of a voluntary pension fund, i.e. a pension plan to withdraw and dispose of accumulated funds, is achieved by the completed 53 years of life. "In previous contract provisions, membership approaches, business policy, all run by the National Bank. How? In terms of consent. Absolutely everything. Those rights stemming from this fund, regardless of which they are essentially property and only property and would have to be settled under property law, so if it is given the fact that consent to all these documents is given by the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, what is the basis and what is the basic knowledge and elemental right in the area of property law is changing. This is where they said 53 years and tied him to a mandatory pension-inhabitation law. Look further, so I don't read to you. No one wanted to submit an amendment to this. Why? Because they said, as much as you pay, so is the music, you took the risk, so you became a member. That's the logic in which the proposer sails. Take a look at the previous position, he says, "Nearer conditions for the exercise of the right to make available and withdraw the accumulated funds in the cases referred to in Article 6 are prescribed by the minister responsible for work and pension insurance." We'll say by the law you're voting: you're investing up to 53 years, you can't withdraw our funds. The right to have an individual over his means is limited, legally, not contractually. Further: "The withdrawal and availability of accumulated funds by a member of this fund must begin at the latest with 70 years of life", and in previous provisions there is also how these funds are inherited, in the form of withdrawal, if a member dies, etc. With very small provisions, a large space opens up for the governor, the finance minister and, when it comes to sickness and these things, extraordinary treatment costs and permanent inability to work, the minister of work and other jobs. That's not how it's gonna work. This law does not have a provision, which exists in other laws, where members are guaranteed the minimum contribution of a voluntary pension fund, whether in the light of the escontaneous rate, whether thirds etc. No, but literally, everything on the market, all on some judo, some meadow, whom. Now you see why it was necessary for Mladjan Dinkic to have a part in 25 members, a position to say "the NBS will", "it will write", "it will fortify", "it will decide", "it will give consent", "it will withdraw the license", "it will give permission" and so on. When a 79-member law finds itself in twenty-one places that the NBS or someone will prescribe, then believe that this isn't the law, then we don't need a law like this. We need a three-member law to leave everything to the governor and the finance minister. For what? Because of the budget. Alpha and omega is a budget, not a life, but a budget. The biggest problem of this government is the budget. That's why this kind of law is being passed. We from the Serbian Radical Party are in favour of a law that needs to be arranged voluntarily for pension-invalid insurance through voluntary pension-invalid funds, but not in this way and with this concept, where nothing is known, where a future member of the fund, which is a minimum, is guaranteed by the state. This is where the state guarantees. What do you think, that the state should pass a regulation and say we don't care, we've passed a regulation, so you act by the law. The Greek funds in this fund will be used as a catcher for the budget of the Republic of Serbia, because the Republic of Serbia is issuing so-called. Debt charters of values that in our terms are the safest securities of value. There is almost no question of payment of claims based on these securities of value. This is the additional budget of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course she has to guarantee it. He can't have that guarantee executed by the governor estimating justification. It can't, but with a clear and precise standard, that anyone who wants to do this job, who meets the conditions, can do the job; that whoever wants to be a member of some voluntary pension-involvement fund is fundamentally protected. It's all fluid here. You'll see, after this criticism, this law will have to change very quickly. This law will be the source of constant conflict. Remember what I told you. Whether they will be more or less visible, that is another question, but this law provides support for the Republic of Serbia's budget. Who will do this job - only selected, because the financial market in Serbia must be closed, according to the G17 plus concept, in the sense that G17 plus has a control function over all segments and in all stages of financial business, the financial market. You took the Securities Commission out of value, you took the Ministry of Finance, budget inspection, customs, tax, NBS, all insurance companies, all banks, you control all accounts. Now you've kidnapped the army, not because of money control, but in order to achieve your political program -- breaking up the state community. You've got cover for everyone - someone from the IMF is looking for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20013	The People's Messenger, Sava Urosevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20014	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 51, at first glance, seems to be justified because it says that the NBS will determine who can be and so on. It's not about determining special legal entities, it's about the kind of institutions that can deal with voluntary retirement insurance. This clarification is necessary and in this case Mr Angelkovic's amendment has no justification. If certain legal entities were to go so far as to be determined, then the amendment would be fully justified. When I left for the pay phone, I'd like to say a few more words about this law. This is about an extremely good law, one of the laws that this area has done in the right way. This law guarantees the security of funds that citizens invest in a voluntary pension fund. The very way in which the fund and the fund management society are separated from the funds that citizens invest in the fund is fully secured. This law also sets out how funds from the fund can be invested and certain percentages are that parts of these funds can be invested and that the funds are fully protected. Also, a very important provision that prevents something from happening in America is that, in the case of bankruptcy of a voluntary pension fund management company, this bankruptcy does not entail any damage to the resources of citizens who are associated with such a fund and citizens' funds are being managed in special accounts. Whoever read the reasoning of the law could also see a key sentence that best explains what a voluntary pension fund is. It is an institutionalised association of citizens to trade securities of value. Each and every one of us is neither professional nor powerful enough to trade securities of value with such charters, and then citizens, practically, join together, engage in the professional service that does so for them. This law sets out how these securities market transactions are carried out and a very strict way of investing funds, and in the best possible way, the fund members are protected from losing their assets.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20015	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have submitted an amendment to Article 51. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20016	Without the intention of plowing with Mr. Urosevic, even if what Mr. Urosevic said was true, it is not exactly written here. Secondly, even if it were true that the NBS would determine financial institutions like insurance companies, then the legislator should write immediately, that we know that all banks can work, and that the NBS then gives consent that they can, based on Article 6. What does it mean to determine financial institutions? What is meant by financial institutions? I guess it has to regulate, it's not controversial, it's closer to the conditions under which these financial institutions can work. Maybe the bank exists as a bank and then someone will say that all banks can, and maybe the closer conditions will be that the bank has to have 50 counters, 120 counters to be the very financial institution that's going to do these jobs. If there are under 50 counters in 50 cities in Serbia, then she can't. These are closer conditions, and if it were to say so, and it says in attitude 6 - determines closer conditions, then it should be added that it gives consent to financial institutions on the basis of these nearby conditions that it will determine. I don't think the Assembly should ever give anyone such a right that he can determine by verticalizing financial institutions. Maybe the governor's closer to Raiffeisen Bank than the HVB Bank or any other bank, not to tell the National Savings Bank, so he'll say the National Savings Bank can. They'll say they didn't want to, but the governor asked them to, begged, so they accepted. Some other bank will say - we would, but the governor didn't determine us. Why is that? Let whoever wants to register on the terms and conditions that the NBS has written, and starting with this law. I'm not just talking about this member. I am speaking in principle, when it is written in law that someone has the authority past this parliament, past the rules that determine that he determines himself; he may say that all foreign banks that do not have a seat here or can say – only financial institutions that have 51 per cent of foreign capital. I don't think that's the kind of thing the Parliament can't allow, that it gives someone such rights, especially because I don't have that kind of trust in the NBS, even though it has those kind of experts. I don't trust myself, because there were all kinds of things about insurance companies. We looked at those papers, they were lifted, they weren't lifted, and someone was the chairman of the board of directors of one of the insurance companies very close to the government, so a few months before that, Imperial, if I'm not mistaken, left that position as chairman of the board, and that insurance company threw out its capital. If we know these things, and that comes from the NBS report that we got on the Finance Committee, then I don't really trust her until the end if we give her such rights. That's why I think the Assembly has an obligation to limit the conditions that the NBS should give, and based on these conditions, financial institutions can be won. To go back to this member I went out with. One can say that it is not a key thing, but in the last position it is well stated that the management company is obliged to deliver a notice to a member of the voluntary pension fund, on its request, from Article 1 of this Article within three days. That's good. Anyone who wants to see the financial situation in a fund where he has a stake, where he volunteered, where he has given additional funds to secure himself, has the right and the society has the obligation to deliver the financial report to him within three days. But the question arises, if the NBS has such control here, the proposal that's here, that every three months is delivered to all the insurance companies and you take that there are 200,000 insurance companies, that's the cost, and I guess we want to cut the cost. If we have the obligation of the NBS to control where each dinar will be invested by voluntary insurance and that a voluntary insurance company has no right to invest wherever it wants, but at any moment it has to get consent to the funds invested, in which case the costs should be reduced, i.e. tossing a pair of voluntary insurance companies, which means that every three months, an address is sent to 200,000, etc. The last point is that every insurance company can get a financial status within three days. For these reasons, I suggest that it be a year, not a quarter. The second question is whether or not we have settled the financial market. When we talk about voluntary insurance, of course, we as socialists can say that we are not as interested as the party's software, and that is why we are, above all, interested in compulsory pension insurance and in the position of compulsory pension insurance companies, because of the social structure of the people that the party represents. But on the other hand, when it comes to voluntary insurance, we often view it as just retirement insurance, and it's actually a bank. In most countries, you do not have a classic savings savings in the savings book because at the end of the year there is a large tax, large deductions, and investment in voluntary pension insurance and in securities there are no such taxes because they are treated differently. Therefore, the citizen is encouraged to invest in a voluntary pension fund, which is in fact his savings book, in a way, the bank, in a way, that in later years when it does not work, it can, in fact, use its assets, increase. From that position, looking at the perspective, we are interested in this fund, but we are interested that it works well and that the citizen who invests in that fund knows that it's his savings book for a future after 53 years, according to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20017	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20018	I cannot defend this amendment, but I cannot defend this solution that Dinkic put in Article 52. Article 52 is clouded transparency. The whole point of this member is that they are reportedly informed, have insight, the state of resources, but I want to point out something that makes this law passed. Article 31, also one of the very important members, says - property of a voluntary pension fund. So these are all the contributions paid by the fund members. See what Youth has meant: 1) Debt charters of the values issued by the NBS, in accordance with the law governing the organisation and jurisdiction of the NBS; 2) Debt charters of values issued by the Republic of Serbia, the territorial autonomy unit and local self-government in the Republic and other legal entities with the guarantee of the Republic, in accordance with the law governing public debt; 3) charters of values issued by international financial institutions. Now we will fund the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. He has overcome, as Djelic, our frameworks, he is a European leader. 4) debt securities issued by foreign states or foreign legal entities with a minimum credit rating "A". We'll finance Switzerland. 5) mortgage bonds issued in the territory of the Republic; 6) securities issued by legal persons established in the Republic of Korea; 7) actions of foreign legal entities listed and traded on the stock market of EU Member States, i.e. OECD; 8) monetary deposits in banks based in the Republic, established in accordance with the law governing the operations of banks and other financial organisations. The Cetter Bank, the Raiffeisen Bank and these others. So the deposit at the bank, because based on the deposit, some contribution should be made. 9) deposit certificates issued in the Republic; 10) deposit certificates issued by banks established in the Member States of the European Union and the OECD. Here's the end. "The National Bank of Serbia prescribes the maximum amount of investment in the property of a voluntary pension fund under the 1st term of this member. "It is now the next Article 32. And, last position in Article 31: "The National Bank of Serbia prescribes conditions and the way property of voluntary pension funds can be invested abroad", and it has already been determined, which charters of foreign states, foreign banks, etc. mean, as a possibility, but now the National Bank will prescribe at what percentage it can go there. It's a clean laundry pair, remember. In order for that money laundromat to succeed, the National Bank of Serbia must... See Article 32, says: "The investment of assets under Article 31 of this Act shall be subject to the following restrictions: 1) to 10% of the assets of a voluntary pension fund shall be invested in the securities of one issuer or of the total value of two or more issuers, other than the securities issued by the Republic, or the National Bank of Serbia. "So there's no limit. So, for the budget, what Milk thinks, everything has to. On orders to go shopping, the minister shakes his hand on the table and says – you have to buy these securities of value, because I saw in your account that you have so much free money, and the interest on the basis of these securities of value guaranteed to you will be that and that. Other banks, you have to make a lower interest rate for one index point so it doesn't turn out like you're pulling something on me. What you're telling me, it's always been like that, you can laugh or whatever you want. At the time of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, at the time of the National Bank of Serbia, at the time of the PDO and during the time of the SDK, that was the case and always will be so. Furthermore, it says – up to 5% of the property of a voluntary pension fund is invested in charters of values issued by the organiser who organised the pension plan that joined the fund. It's unions and various businesses, those that collect, up to 5% of the assets. Next – up to 5% of the property of a voluntary pension fund is invested in cash deposits with banks. That's the one with article 31. And: "Investing the property of a voluntary pension fund cannot generate more than 15% of the ownership participation, i.e. an action with the right to vote of a single issuer", and in the event where the property is invested in so-called equity actions of value. When you look at all of this, you see, apparently, there is a framework for limitations, and in the previous article it is defined what is the business of the property management company that is located in a voluntary pension fund. It's all arranged and nothing's wrong. Why? Because there is an all-time governor of the National Bank of Serbia in a coalition with the finance minister and the president, that is, the joint president of the party, because they decide everything. The law doesn't have to. They've done something similar with life insurance, where this matter is also regulated, and it's going to be in one of the following members, I think it's Article 76, transitional and final provisions, where it's ordered to shut down insurance companies. Why are they being ordered? He can't. They're in the way. There are now some money collected on the basis of the premium of life insurance, to return it now, they have to transform these three companies and be in even greater control, because it is insufficient to control the insurance law. We want this, this is a higher degree of control. So the way you look at it, you come across it, you go from a prank to a prank. I can understand that someone is saying – you know what, the National Bank of Serbia will determine; it says it keeps a record of natural persons and is closer to editing the conditions for issuing permits. But here it is said -- that determines, and there is no permit in the middleman. Article 2 is given to an individual, a person, and in the last position it is reportedly about certain conditions, and it is said to be a permit, and here intermediaries are determined by the National Bank of Serbia. Take care, because the governor will take you badly if you defend him in this way, that he will by some means determine the terms and conditions, etc. One basic rule for all of our laws that we write. Usually conditions are prescribed by law, unless they are already contained in one of the constitutional norms; the way something is done could be regulated by law, and some questions of ways could be arranged by some sublegal act, but here is no problem. Here is the problem that conditions, the way and all questions are handed over to the correct governor of the National Bank of Serbia and it becomes his will. That's the problem. Of course, we have no idea that we are moving ahead of this Vučetic Constitutional Court procedure for assessing the constitutionality of this law, because we already know in advance what the decision will be. First there will be silence for three years, and then after that, when the situation calms down, then he will say, "It's over." So, since I've come out on an amendment to Article 52, that amendment is not good either, but it's not a good solution that shows in the form of transparency to members of a voluntary pension fund what we say to the people, "there goes the pussy around you to make sure you don't get scratched." You will see for yourself, 80% of these funds from the voluntary insurance fund will be in the role of public finances, only if the governor tightens a little more of this business bank so as not to give better conditions than the state she would offer to this future fund. The instruments are again with the governors of the National Bank of Serbia: they increase mandatory reserves, perform some open-market operation, ban the bank from creating secondary money, and banks create paperwork money, depending on what relations they have with the governor of the National Bank, not some rule that depends. So, budget support, and it's a dirty budget support. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20019	The People's Messenger, Sava Urosevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20020	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first to say something about Mr. Angelkovic's amendment he was talking about. I think it's one of the amendments adopted by the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, which corrected a provision in the law by which members of the Fund are quarterlyly reported on their individual accounts and that it was a good amendment, because it is a high cost to quarterly report a large number of members. Today, we have three voluntary retirement companies in Serbia and about 100,000 members in these funds, and in the first more than 50,000 members, so this number is expected to be higher, now that we have a law that regulates this matter. The current fund for voluntary retirement insurance is the basis for its work being drawn from the Insurance Act, however, this law is a fully defined way they work and I expect several more funds to appear. On the occasion of the emergence of new funds and the compensation for the work of funds we will see, the current funds for voluntary retirement insurance are complaining of a 3% compensation that it is small. If more funds appear within the next year, then 3% is not small. If they don't show up, we'll see, the market regulates it. Otherwise, in other countries, it is regulated by the very statute of society, but these are also countries where pension insurance has a larger tradition, so that the market for such societies is already fully functioning in these countries, and then it is clear that companies are fighting for their place in the market and reducing compensation. Regarding the provisions in the law that determine where funds can be invested and invested, I would take advantage of the opportunity to tell my predecessor that he is in some way contradictory. In one part of his exposure, he objectes against the fact that state charters are one of the ways to invest, and in the other part he objectes why they are foreign securities of value and investment abroad. Both are in office and that is the fundamental purpose of this law – to keep the funds that the citizens invest in a voluntary pension fund from going down and to be safe. Once again, this is an extremely good law and the G17 plus will absolutely support a law like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20021	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 57 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 76 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20022	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 76 sets certain deadlines regarding the application of this law. The first point is said: "The insurance companies authorised to carry out voluntary pension insurance operations under the law governing insurance are obliged to comply with the provisions of this law by 31 December 2006." It is likely that the deadlines will be set by the National Bank of Serbia because in the last position it is said: "The National Bank of Serbia will pass a regulation that will regulate the methodology of business harmonisation of companies for voluntary retirement insurance with this law." So if any insurance company that already exists, which is now operating in this area, is able to quickly comply with this law, it can simply have a brake from the National Bank of Serbia to do so the last day of the following year. Because the methodology is prescribed by the National Bank. We had some experience when it came to the Agency for the Registration of Business Entities, so they say, by that day and that day, we'll be reregistering these business entities, and others, and third, and then kind of capital, and so on, whether they're legal entities, whether they're entrepreneurs, etc. We even got into a situation where one such agency violated a conscious law. So she was not working according to the law that this congregation passed. Why is it so insistent that it is no later than 31,6 or that the National Bank of Serbia has the possibility to block the reregistering of an existing private or voluntary pension fund, as you wish. One part of the law even mentions that companies dealing with voluntary pension insurance cannot be owned by the majority of the Republic of Serbia. The question is, what are you going to do with the voluntary pension fund that founded the Dunav Insurance Company? Who's the majority owner? Does it mean that because of the power of this law, you're going to have to push a large insurance company into an extremely suspicious privatisation to be able to use this voluntary pension fund? Will the National Bank of Serbia voluntary pension funds that exist on the market deliberately block that another new voluntary pension fund, which has no obligation to coordinate the documentation, which only needs to start, or register and appear on the market, will simply take over all the jobs that existing registered voluntary insurance companies are doing so far? The deadline, which I asked for this amendment, for harmonising the documents - April 1st or March 31st, you can read from or to, whatever. Why? This is seen from the stance that says: "The voluntary pension insurance companies can, from the date of entry into force of this law until 31 March 2006, continue to conclude voluntary pension insurance contracts based on the principle of accumulation of funds." So by March 31st, I can do nothing from April 1st. If he is capable of reregistering, collect the necessary documentation, determine, as you say, the personnel infrastructure, technical, which is also prescribed by the National Bank of Serbia, it was submitted for registration, but now we have an interpretation of the National Bank of Serbia that it will not work until 31.12.2006, because they are already established and will not be able to appear on the market. It is further said: "The voluntary pension insurance companies from 1 April 2006 cannot conclude voluntary pension insurance contracts based on the principle of accumulation of funds". Let's say that part's okay. The issue of registration is whether the National Bank of Serbia will accept that the voluntary pension insurance companies register, already existing, by that deadline. Now, a slightly funny position 4: "The voluntary pension insurance companies, from 1 April 2006 until the adoption of a law that will regulate voluntary retirement insurance, can exclusively carry out the tasks of negotiating different types of annuities and conclude contracts that provide rights for disability." Hypothetically, is it possible they won't be able to do that ever? It's possible. Who guarantees that you will pass this law? Who guarantees that anyone will vote that law? What's the rush? Is this law written that large insurance companies, which are mostly owned by the Republic of Serbia, are forced into privatisation? Couldn't the law on voluntary retirement insurance go not as a special law, but with this law? Call him whatever you want, you could baptize him any way you want, but go together. It just shows how incompetent you are to do some work properly. And everyone in this government pretends to be the most capable, that this is the best government, that they're experts. Here, you're not even able to make one pretty serious regulation to bring the end the way you need to. So now perhaps never the law on voluntary pension insurance will be passed - hypothetically. Furthermore, the question is, if you comply with the documentation, the National Bank prescribes documentation, way of doing business, etc., what if all these regulations that have been passed cannot comply with the new law on voluntary retirement insurance? So are we going to do new laws or amendments and laws or what? The best way to get out of this story you've entered is to get this bill out of the process as soon as possible. Think carefully, write a new law that regulates this matter and a law on voluntary retirement insurance, and let the procedure go as one law. Then you can say you really did something. Otherwise, this is a clean waste of time and this National Assembly and citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20023	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20024	I think when you were in the government, you determined this bill, Bubalo was absent. Minister Bubalo probably wouldn't raise his hand for this, since we've passed a company law in the Assembly, including a regulation on their registration, etc. This formula that you provided for in Article 76, concerning the legal position, status, legal form, does not exist in a general act governing the registration of companies. Look what you wrote in attitude one. It is said that "the insurance companies", and so on, "the court's duty to organise and operate comply with the provisions of this law by 31 December 2006". We say it agrees by 1 April 2006. Why until December? This is an emergency for you. With this whole law, you order an independent economic operator who performs a single activity to change its performance. That's the first thing. How are you gonna do that? How will your alignment be done? One says it reregisters into a voluntary pension fund management company by shutting down the company. So society can reregister by shutting itself down. Oh, my God! And organize a shut-down society that will organize a voluntary pension fund. It's all messed up, it's in the system - it's in class, it's out of time, it's out of time, you see it, you don't see it. One of the views goes on to say, "The voluntary pension insurance companies will inform users of their services on the chosen way of synchronising business by 1 July 2006." What if whoever's in this system right now says - I don't want to be a member of a voluntary pension fund under this law. The last stance says, "The National Bank of Serbia will pass a regulation that will regulate the methodology for coordinating the business of the companies for voluntary retirement insurance with this law." I don't know, whoever wrote this or would have to wear a degree for questioning or go to jail. Is it better to go to jail, I don't know. But something like this can't be written. What's changing here? If someone is coordinating their organization and dealing with the provisions of the law, then we're talking about something about action. If we're talking about synchronising, taking this term of yours on the legal form of a company, that's another thing. This insurance company, which performs voluntary pension insurance operations, formed, based on the Insurance Act, also has its founders. You don't commit those founders, but that society, as a legal person, to change its performance. In order to make a change, some acts must be made. A moment ago, in disputing my views, one of my predecessors said -- well, in the West, the company regulates it. Well, it is, but in this whole law, you don't have the word "stat." So you don't have the word "stat." Find in this law, which today is on the agenda, the word "stat." It doesn't exist. Then when I'm denied, he calls on the statutes. Someone tells me I'm contradictory. I'm not contradictory, but I'm indicating what a hoax and the great authority of the governor of the National Bank is being seen. I did not criticise possible ways where these funds could be invested, but I criticised the right given by this law to the governor of the National Bank of Serbia to decide that he prescribes what must be regulated by law. Article 32 has modest limitations. I don't dispute these restrictions, but I put it in context of 25 members, where it says, "The governor of the National Bank will prescribe, the governor of the National Bank will prescribe," and thus I prove that the idea itself was created for abuse. And what is this abuse here hiding or justice? Well, that is voluntary: whoever wills, wills, whoever wills, does not have to. Since this is the last amendment of the Serbian Radical Party to this bill, I call first of all on the proponents, not the proposings, but the government's promoter, to consider, having removed the mask from this operation you have imagined, the public is aware, withdraw this bill, make a new proposal, with very clear norms. Consider whether the tasks of granting consent should be carried out by the National Bank of Serbia or by the Ministry of Finance. Because this thing where control occurs is also some kind of surveillance, which belongs more to the administration than to the monetary government. We're not voting for a bill like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20025	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Is there any other parliamentary group to be told? No, I don't. ) On Article 76 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON PAYMENT FOR PENSION AND INVALID CERTIFICATES FOR THE CATEGORIES OF OBJECTIVES - OBJECTIVES Before that, I would like to inform you about the way we will work. Today we will be working until the end of the search in detail of the 5th item of the agenda, and so we will exhaust the search in particular of these legal proposals relating to the entire set of pension insurance laws. There won't be a session tomorrow. So on Monday from 10.00 hours we'll start searching the details of the 6th item of the agenda - the Code of Criminal Code proposal, and we'll only work until the end of the search of that point. That's the plan, so you can plan your activities. We now move to the draft law on the payment of pension and disability insurance contributions for certain categories of insurance workers. You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the bill: together with Slobodan Adzic, Heljana Dragojevic and Ljubisa Djokovic, Meho Omerović, Ljiljana Nestorović, Zoran Krasic, Nemanja Sarović, Momir Marković, Vjerica Radeta, Paja Momčilov, Veroljub Arsic, Natasa Jovanovic, Branislav Rankić and together Toma Busetic and Milisav Petronijevic, as well as the Committee for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. National MPs Slobodan Adzic, Heliana Dragojevic and Ljubisa Djokovic, written in writing, withdrew the amendment they submitted together to Article 2. Meanwhile, MPs Meso Omerovic and Ljiljana Nestorovic withdrew some amendments. We'll let you know when these amendments come into order, in order. You have received reports from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Under the name of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20026	We, by a similar name, already have one law, which is a law that regulates the payment of mandatory contributions. In order to demonstrate what this law is about, we ask that the name be changed and that it be the law on how to pay contributions for pension and disability insurance employees for the period from 1 January 1991 to 31 December 2003. There can be confusion here to regulate the payment of contributions in 2005 during this period. During this period, the payment of contributions to the existing law was regulated. It has always been regulated by some laws or by this now amended and updated text of the law that regulates the payment of contributions. We just wanted to make this about how the payments were made and that it differed from these others, and that difference is also indicated by the content of this proposed law, because this law covered the period from 1991 to late 2003, when, for more reasons, it was a fact that some employees were registered as insurance workers, they were led to work, work or maybe not. But what is absolutely certain, no mandatory contribution by the employer has been paid for this period. There are so-called. Holes in the retirement period, as the question is asked how to recognise the pension internship, unless the period is covered by mandatory contributions payments. Given the one-time meaning of this bill and now I can't say one-time duration, because nobody now knows how long this realisation and enforcement of this law will take, as far as law enforcement is concerned, it's certainly one-time. That's why we felt it was necessary to put in the name a sign that should point to this specificity of this law, because under a similar name there are already regulations in our legal system and this word - the way of payment, in some ways reflects the essence of this law but makes that difference compared to other similar regulations. That was our idea. However, in this bill of law, we really don't have the government's opinion, and whether or not it's under the Rules of Procedure, it doesn't matter at all at this point. It's important that we talk about something, and we don't know what the government thinks about it. We know that they may have said on some committee that they do not accept the amendment, but we do have situations that the Government's representative on the board does not accept the amendment and says - I am not authorized to accept the amendment, and then the next day in the government's opinion we read that the government has accepted the amendment. Now I don't know what the situation is with these amendments. I think all amendments are acceptable and are in the function of regulating this very painful question. None of these amendments are an obstructive amendment, but it is a legal and technical nature and an amendment that wishes to simplify this procedure in order to bring people into line as soon as possible and to establish that pension internship and depending on the insurance and other conditions that meet that they can also exercise the right to retire. There are a number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who cannot exercise pension rights because it is not covered by the payment of contributions. All our amendments have contributed to that. I think most of these amendments, if not perhaps all, the government could accept without jeopardizing its idea. That's the idea we share.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20027	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20028	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2 of this bill. I must indeed express my surprise that it was not accepted by the government and that it was not accepted, after all, by the ruling coalition here, because given what you yourself said at committee sessions and session here, which was dedicated to the principle debate on this law, I think even this solution proposed by the amendment is much closer to that than what you wrote here in the law. Your formal commitment was exactly as proposed by the amendment and this amendment in a much more comprehensive and more precise manner regulates what was meant to be in Article 2, or what the Government advocated, at least declared that it wanted to achieve this law. Whoever read the proposal that came to us from the government and what was given here with the amendment could see that it was absolutely not about something that would in any way destroy this proposed system, but simply about determining the right way of achieving absolutely all categories of insurance. In the proposal that we received from the Government, for what reason are divided and has three positions, and my proposal has two positions and covers all categories of insurance from 1 January 1991 to 31 December 2003. The government's proposal splits for persons who were in a business relationship (a business company), institutions, banks, other financial organisation and agricultural association in the Republic of Serbia, meaning, for the period from 1 January 1991 to 31 December 2000, if they were registered for insurance during that period. The second point then states that the right to payment of contributions under this law also has a person who, between 1 January 2001 and 31 December 2003, was in a working relationship with the employer in which the bankruptcy or liquidation procedure was initiated during that period, provided that insurance was declared during that period. The proposed amendment provides for a provision and avoids unnecessary differences in the periods of insurance covered by the draft law. If the amendment was accepted, there would be virtually no such categories and who would be entitled to what period, but all those not for this reason or for that reason would have been paid an internship, which was in the employer’s working relationship, in terms of the provisions on the rules on PIO employees, which were declared to be insurance, had the status of insurance with an employee. Thus, Article 2 states - the right to pay contributions to the establishment of insurance standings is recognised as the person referred to in Article 1 if the statutory compulsory contribution to its insurance is not paid during the period from 1 January 1991 to 31 December 2003. In this way we would circle the system and we would have a broader formulation of those faces, whoever did it, and I don't think there's a big difference between these categories of citizens, and it doesn't matter if anyone worked in the agricultural community, the bank, the institutions, the financial organization. So what's the point and what has to be the essence is that here, in action, the solidarity of the state with all those who for whatever reason did not exercise some of their rights, which is exactly the right that had to guarantee the state to them. You can't say that someone who worked in a bank or who worked in a state-owned company could be guilty of not insisting on it during that period, and I remind you, by the end of 2003, that's the end of the year, contributions are being paid. Such an obligation existed, and in no way can such things be broken down into workers. Workers have already been punished enough by nature for not being enrolled for years, which is because of this fact they cannot exercise the right to retire, and they have earned this right fairly by their long-term work. Just try to figure out how much damage it's caused for someone like that. For six or seven years, because he has not been paid mandatory social security contributions and pension-inhabitation contributions, he cannot exercise his pension right, even if the pension was minimal. When it stretches to a period of five or six years, calculate what money is then. It should also be borne in mind that, as a rule, this is about people who have been from the Middle Ages and beyond. These are people who, in this period of transition, find work most difficult. It is not easy for them to overqualify themselves, because they will always be able to hire young people and expect more and get more work for the same cash compensation. I don't think there's any reason, and I call openly on everyone from the ruling coalition to find any objections to this amendment and say, "That's why we can't vote on that too." If it's necessary, I'll withdraw the amendment. In addition, the amendment is much more specific and better regulated by this solution. Article 2 The proposal says, "The right to pay contributions according to this law has a person who is in a period of... "and so on. The proposed amendment states: "The right to pay contributions in accordance with the provisions of this law is laid down for a person who has been in the period from 1 January 1991 to... "and further. Legally speaking, legally-formally, no one under Article 2 of the Law has any right, nor does he have any right under this law, but the possible right can be established in accordance with this law, but only on condition that the conditions which were subsequently granted are met. First, the condition laid down in Article 4, where it is said that it is necessary to apply for payment of contributions, that the application is submitted by the employer, and that certain categories are subsequently regulated. There are some vague provisions, because the question is what will happen if an employer, who is already irresponsible enough, has proved this by not paying contributions when it is due, does not now apply for contributions. Furthermore, in Article 4(3)(2), it states that, upon request, one of the things that is necessary is the written consent of the employee to accept payment of the contribution in accordance with this law. I wish the minister were there, so that he could come out in any capacity, whether as an MP, whether as a minister, and say what it was that made him prescribe that the necessary and written consent of the workers to contribute to him. Is it possible that there will be a single worker in Serbia who will say: I did, but I don't want you to pay my contributions, I don't want to have pension-involvement insurance tomorrow, I don't need it. Why would it take written consent from workers to carry out some obligation long ago prescribed by law? Employers have an obligation, prescribed by law, to pay contributions. This isn't about something a worker can say he will or won't. Is it possible that someone here today says, "I don't want my contributions to be paid, I want everything to be paid for my work, I just want my pay." Of course it's not possible. If that's not possible today, if that's not possible five, ten years ago, then why are you even asking for an additional condition, absolutely pointless, because no one in their right mind can say why it takes the worker's consent to apply for a prescribation that's long been determined as such, and by an imperative norm. I can't have any negotiations here, nor can it be said: this is what I want, this is not what I want. It's something he has to do. The meaning of this law should be that the state assumes a commitment to itself, an obligation not made by certain companies, employers, no matter what their names are and what organisational form they are involved in; the state, because it was unable to force them to carry out its obligations in due time, is now taking over certain obligations. Furthermore, you will see from Article 6 that there is a limited time in which this request can be filed, as well as from Article 7 that, in fact, this law does not guarantee any right for workers, that the wrong formulation given to Article 2 is therefore, because Article 2 says: "The right to pay contributions under this law has a face... ". No, but it can only happen if certain conditions are met. The first condition is for certain papers to be collected, the second condition that the employer submits such a request, the third condition is that the fund, within 12 months, which is an extremely long period, is to adopt a solution that determines the right to payment of contributions. So it's still not about the exercise of rights, it's about making a decision to determine the right to pay for contributions. Why is it a deadline for the fund to make that decision so long? Why 12 months? If you have said that all employers and all those who have denied a right within only three months can submit a request, then why it takes the fund a year to make the right solutions; especially what these solutions will be made for certain companies groupically and collectively, they will find it much easier to process these data. There's no sanctions for the fund unless he makes that decision. Then what happens? Will anyone be held accountable? Why didn't you prescribe the criminal provisions? Furthermore, this is not the end, as it is then said that the right to determine the insurance standings is achieved when funds from the Republic's budget are transferred to the Fund, under the planned funds for transfers to compulsory social insurance organisations, and in a way that does not jeopardise the liquid potential of the budget. We know for ourselves what the state budget is, we know that the obligations of February last year have not yet been established. Will there be opportunities, in line with the budget, for these contributions to be actually paid, for the funds to really be allocated in the budget to be transferred to the fund? It's only at that moment that workers get any rights. It's only the fifth step, in which you can finally enter a certain internship, so that only in the sixth step, on the basis of that internship, you can exercise the right to retire or some other giving. It should be borne in mind that these are obligations some date back to 1991. Considering that this will last at least two years, it means that by 2007, people will not be able to earn the pension they may have earned in 1991, 1992, or 1993. So if you really care as much as you care about, not about pensioners, because this is not about pensioners, but about those who can't exercise their right to retire, give or go out and state any reason why this amendment cannot be accepted or accepted in the day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20029	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Toma Busetic and Milisav Petronijevic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Tom Bushetić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20030	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the bill on the payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance is a good law. This is one of the few laws that, I believe, all MP groups will be very happy to accept. Our main objection to this law is that the Government or the Minister makes a difference when it comes to connecting the employment rate for employees who have not been paid a contribution to pension and disability insurance for the period from 1991 to 2000 and for the period 2000 to 2003. It's our fundamental objection. Of course, there may be other objections, better formulations, technical corrections, but I think this question is essential and important. In this direction, we have also submitted an amendment saying that the right to pay contributions under this law has a person who, from 1 January 1991 to 31 December 2003, was in a working relationship with the company, whether it was a business company, an establishment, a bank, another financial organisation, a farming association in the Republic of Serbia, which was declared insurance during that period and was not paid a contribution to pension and disability insurance. We believe that this problem is equally difficult for all employees, no matter where they work and where they work, because the problem of unpaid contributions and the inability to acquire and exercise rights based on pension and disability insurance is equally affected by all people. We believe that the solution we have proposed is adequate, comprehensive and we are counting on all parliamentary groups, regardless of whether our amendment has not been accepted on the Committee and is not accepted by the Government, but that we will agree together that simply for all persons who do not have a work experience from 1991 to 2003, the state will do so. In this way, the state shows the best intentions, which has not been in many years or at least in the last five years, for all those workers and all the employees, for all the companies that have been in the greatest difficulty. When it comes to the period from 1991 to 2000, we know that our businesses, businesses, and banks were doing business and what was going on. There were sanctions, difficulties in production, simply, it was very difficult for many companies and businesses to meet their basic obligations, starting with wages, especially when it comes to compulsory social security. Certainly, the most important issue for all of these people is pension and disability insurance under this mandatory social security. When we talk about health insurance, books were often certified regardless of whether contributions were paid. It was humane, it was justified, but that time went by, and if someone didn't pay a contribution to health insurance, it doesn't mean anything. If there is no payment for pension and disability insurance then there is simply no associated internship and it is impossible to exercise the right to pension. This is how the state takes care of these people right now, and that's one good indicator. When we talk about the period from 2000 to 2003, we think that all employees, all employees and employees should have the same status, but it's a bit unclear what happened to the companies that they sold, whether the buyers had, and had an obligation to make payments. The best example is "Sartid." We know how it was sold. Many here boasted that it was the best solution, one of the most significant sales of the time. We know that Sartid was sold for very small money, although it was much more worth it, and on the other hand, what's very important, is that the state wrote off all these debts as well. Sartid went bankrupt. I don't know exactly what the sum is, a few hundred million dollars or a euro went under ice, and now the state has to cover it, instead of covering it up by the buyer, the ones who bought that company. When we talk about this relationship in privatisation, it's really that kind of situation. Our numerous customers, those who bought our companies from 2000 to 2003, did not only care about the payment of these contributions, but rather about many other things that are equally painful. First of all, there was no sale where there was no layoff. The key is, if a company sells, to increase the number of employees, not to reduce. There's been a lot of privatisation, but it's a special topic. I call on all MPs and all parliamentary groups to accept this amendment, which is almost identical with the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party, in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20031	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20032	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague Bushetic explained the essence of our amendment. I would say a few more words in favour of this amendment being acceptable, good and that it should be accepted. We have our position on the law on the payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance for certain categories of insurance workers brought forth in principle debate on this law. Absolutely this law is in line with our pledges and we support it. Of course, when we support the law in principle, it does not mean that we agree with all the provisions of the law. For these reasons, we have a proposal for an amendment relating to a key provision of this law. In Article 2 of the proposed law, which normally contains three positions, not one but two injustices were made in the first two attitudes. First, paragraph 1 states that all those persons who were in a working relationship from January 1st 1991 to December 31st 2000, for whom a contribution was paid and a number of enterprises and institutions were listed, are slightly unclear, which is not why they are not all. Article 2 refers to the right of workers to pay contributions for the period from 1 January 2001 to 31 December 2003, and refers to the same categories of enterprises and institutions, but is already narrowing and saying - those for which bankruptcy or liquidation proceedings have been initiated. We think five elements are crucial here. The first right of workers to obtain from the state the right to pay contributions for the entire period from 1 January 1991 to 31 December 2003. We don't think there's a need to share and it's not good to share that period for two periods: until 2000 and since 2001. In one period and another, it was the workers who suffered the damage. Many of them did not know that they were not paid, nor were they to blame for the economic situation, nor were they paid for anything else. So they're in exactly the same position, and they didn't have a number of workers. I think it's a few hundred thousand people, and they all deserve to be in this law, with the same right, that is, the obligation of the state to pay these workers a contribution. The second element contained in the proposed member of the law concerns enterprises, institutions, etc. We don't think it's this well-formed. It's simple, it's unclear why banks, financial organizations, why not all organizations, why not all employees. The third element is the element that the face was in a working relationship. We don't question that. The fourth, that this person is being paid a contribution to insurance – and we are not questioning it, so it remains. The fifth element, to refer to the period for which the contribution was not paid. So, of these five, three are not controversial: one that in a working relationship, the other that a contribution is paid and the third, that refers to a time for which no contribution has been paid. What is controversial and what we think should be corrected is, firstly, that it applies to all employees from 1 January 1991 to 31 December 2003 and second, to apply for the whole period and to all employees in enterprises, institutions, organisations and not to list further. For these reasons, we have proposed an amendment which, instead of three members, comes down to one position and he, we heard earlier, says, therefore, that the right to pay contributions under this law has a person who, from 1 January 1991 to 31 December 2003, was in a working relationship, that a contribution was paid to him, and during which he was not paid a contribution. There is no need for Article 2 and 3 to be detained in that proposed member of the law. So, the point is all the time, the same rights for all the workers, and everything else remains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20033	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20034	Given that colleagues Busetic and Petronijevic explained the importance of this amendment very closely, I would like to say a few more words on behalf of the SPS, because I think the amendment and the law deserve it. In fact, I think that this law has somehow remained in the shadow of this debate on amendments and additions to the Law on PIO, because it is a very important law, where the question of fate will be resolved by around 20,000 people in Serbia who have not been paid a contribution to PIO. I think it's extremely important for this law to be passed. What my colleague Petronijevic said, if the law is good, does not mean that all the provisions are as they should be and it is good that we are socialists, and I also see fellow radicals, have submitted an amendment to this Article of Law 2 where we extended this period and included those people for whom no contribution was paid to PIO by 2003. I have to say one more thing - that we Socialists asked the government to have this law on the agenda at the beginning of this year, and we asked that it be on the agenda when the Labour Act was passed, and then in those amendments and additions to the Labour Act and here, we welcomed now September the month to discuss the law and to have the law passed. We think that the law has its own meaning, that is, for those people for whom no contributions have been paid, it will have some meaning, and I think it's a good amendment. There is no need to take it only in 2000, or to apply from 2000 to 2003 to only one category of persons, because there are many people who, by 2000, for reasons known, are sanctioned, isolation, aggression, inability to operate the economy in the right way, were simply deprived of it, but there is no reason to be left out of those people who have since 2000, so we say, through these democratic changes and privatisation, left out of work on the street. I think it's good to have this law passed. One more thing, especially this amendment, because we mentioned in the principle debate on this set of laws that this is one of the three amendments that we think are extremely important. Of course, unless it's adopted, and we think it should, we SPS MPs are not voting for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20035	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20036	The amendment that we have submitted to this article by us is more complete, but this SPS amendment is also following the same thread and asking for an answer to the question why DOS power is one objective fact, an unpaid contribution for some period, persons who have been in insurance in the status of the employee, in what way is this difference seen? It is as if from 1991 until the end of 2000 it was justified for every reason why no contribution was paid and from 1 January 2001 to 31 December 2003 only if the liquidation and bankruptcy procedure was initiated. What should we do with those who were employed from January 1st 2001 to December 31st 2003, so they were, in a working relationship, registered for insurance, no contributions paid, and no bankruptcy proceedings or liquidation proceedings were initiated against the company? Then how do you justify that this category does not fall under this law? There's no excuse. So here, above all, there were some political reasons why this was shared, because since 1 January 2003 democracy has prevailed and since democracy prevailed as a valid reason can only be bankruptcy or liquidation. This other thing went perfectly well. It didn't go normal, we all know that. In addition to this here, there is one legal flaw in the text of Article 2. It's a bill of law. What does this mean: "whom is the bankruptcy or liquidation procedure in that period?" So here you're just taking the procedure as a fact. We have a situation that in this period from 2001 to 2003, Article 2, Article 2, paragraph 2, the procedures have been initiated, the procedures have been completed, and the obligations on the basis of unpaid contributions have entered into bankruptcy proceedings. The PIO fund was a trustee. The bankruptcy is charged if the bankruptcy procedure is completed. It's very simple and simple. So there is no reason for this formulation to be in Article 2, as proposed by the Government. So other than that it creates injustice, division between employees, for the same reason, it's also contained here. Starting a liquidation and bankruptcy procedure does not mean anything, and it means that the procedure has been completed. It is possible that the bankruptcy procedure has been completed, the unpaid contributions have become a claim, the bankruptcy process and the demand is being settled, even has a priority over commercial creditors. So here the only reason was for the period from 1991 to 31.12.2003 to be politically divided and sanctioned. I should ask the question - why isn't it until the day of the law? No, this is where this set wanted to make a distinction against DOS, because in December 2003 there were elections. You see, when Junior and these tulips come up with it, every word in them has a certain wrong meaning. I'll talk later about these other amendments, where you can also see this lump that you can't get rid of. Better for economists to deal with the economy than for imperfect economists to deal with politics. You see how they bring a grain of discord where, absolutely certain, there is 100% support in this congregation. I don't know an MP who doesn't care to solve this issue in the best way possible. And these amendments, which have been submitted, have only been submitted to improve the text, to make it clear those rights that are recognised to people, to protect some of their interests in subsequent provisions. But the government won't say it either - we accept it, you made a good suggestion, we made a mistake, we correct it. No, they're pushing like this. You'll see what that vote looks like.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20037	I thank you, Mr. Krassic. Is there anyone else answering for the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. A representative of the proposings and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Momir Markovic submitted to the 4th amendment. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20038	Ladies and gentlemen, before I move to the amendment to take the opportunity to congratulate the Democratic Party on entering the government, to congratulate the ruling coalition on expanding the coalition. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: How the Democratic Party? ) There is a question - how is the Democratic Party. These two MPs who have received the deputy and assistant ministers are from the Democratic Party's parliamentary list. The political scene in Serbia has now been raised. This here is the opposition, and this is the ruling set. Perhaps this is the best solution for Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the law governing this matter has long been necessary. However, there are a few things that need to be asked as a question from this pay phone as well. First of all, why is there no government opinion on the amendments to this law and on all the laws that we have discussed so far, concerning pension-inhabited insurance? Does this mean that the resolution minister does not respect the views and opinions of the MPs? I just think that's what that means. Most of the time, we've always received, with certain exceptions, attitudes and the government's opinion. Then we knew why the Government of certain amendments did not accept us and we knew how to, with further explanation, tell the representatives of the Government why this amendment should be accepted. We have been denied this way; I have not personally, but I believe the MPs have been denied the proposal's opinion why they do not accept these amendments. I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 where I request that attitudes 1 and 2 be changed. I will read Section 1 and 2 of the bill and I will read my amendment, so that the citizens of Serbia, I am referring to the entire coalition, will be clear and I hope that in the day of the vote, you will press the green button and adopt this amendment. Article 4 states: "The request for payment of contributions shall be submitted by the employer to employees who have been in a working relationship during the period and under the conditions laid down in Article 2(1) of this Act, while they are still in a working relationship with the employer. The request shall be submitted to the branch of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Employees, according to the employer's seat (hereinafter referred to as the Fund). "Article 2 of Article 2 of this Act reads: "The right to pay contributions under this law is also a person who, from 1 January 2001 to 31 December 2003, was in a working relationship with a employer who was in the process of bankruptcy or liquidation in that period, provided that insurance was declared during that period." Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first thing that stings, that's why it divides. Serbian Radical Party MPs mainly insisted on this -- why division until 2000 and from 2000 to 2003. Does this mean that the arrival of democracy, after the "bulldozer of revolution" you've carried out, was everything okay? Secondly, what about the companies where the bankruptcy was launched after 2003, and they also didn't make a contribution? Third, what will happen to these, what was Mr Krasic talking about, when the bankruptcy process first gives way to the Fund? Does that mean there'll be a double commitment? Furthermore, there is a big problem, it said, "The funds for payment of contributions under this law are provided in the Republic's budget, under the funds for transfers to mandatory social insurance organisations". But Article 7(3) states: "Right to determine the staff of the insurance company of the person referred to in Article 2 of this Act when funds from the Republic's budget are transferred to the Fund, as part of the planned... "and so on, unless liquidity is compromised. What if the liquidity is compromised? I apologize for the fact that certain MPs are asleep, if my vote raises them, but I must defend my amendment. What if... and we know how many people worked during this period from 1990 to 2004, 2005. I don't see the difference between 2003 and 2005, as I don't see the difference between 1990 and 2000. A lot of resources need to be allocated. What if there's no funds? Minister Dinkic told us fairy tales, praises about the surplus. When it was supposed to be worth it, it turned out that the money was gone at all, that the money was just "Potemkin's Villages" to win some more points in Serbia, not in the world, possibly in The Tower. My amendment requires that the first and second position replace the place, because it is much more written. It is said: "The request for payment of the contribution (hereinafter referred to as: request) is submitted to the branches of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund - according to the employer's seat". Paragraph 1 of the Law to be Article 2, where it states: "The request is submitted by an employer to employees who were in a working relationship and on that basis were declared mandatory under the conditions laid down in Article 2 of this Act, and in a working relationship with the employer at the time of the entry into force of this law and the period laid down in Article 6 of this Act". Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the law itself is extremely necessary and corrects one injustice since 1990, or 1997, 1998, because of sanctions, blockades, crises, because of everything else that has happened to this Serbia, many have lost their pension and disability insurance. The amendments of the Serbian Radical Party aim only to improve this law, make it clearer, more concrete, and to apply this law when adopted, or in accordance with the last member of this law, when "the Official Messenger" comes out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20039	I thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word is by MP Nikola Todorovic. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20040	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Moma Markovic spoke about the text of the amendment that this member could be clearer and less contradictory, unreasonable. I would say something about one essential piece, in point 2, where it is said that the employee's written consent is to accept payment of the contribution, in accordance with this law. The legislator, i.e. the legislator, is silent about what will happen if workers do not give written consent that their contribution payment problem is not resolved in accordance with this law. That problem has to be solved. The legislator tried to solve the big problem that was created in one less painful or easier way for the country because it had not been paid for years for pension-inhabited insurance. For those who have not understood, the written consent of the employees is explained in Article 11, where all those who give consent must give up the rights they otherwise acquired, or the works of law. So, the bill promoter says that payments will be minimum payments, not as much as your employees have earned or what they belong to. The whole mess is that the legislator does not know that there is a parent records, that there is an obligation for employers to apply for insurance for the previous year by 30 April of the year. I'm talking about an application for insurance that's regulated by Article 132. Pension and disability insurance laws. The data shall be reported for the purpose of determining the insurance, earnings, earnings compensation used for the determination of the annual coefficient, for the insurance of employees and the amount of contributions paid, etc. etc. In Article 144, I said that the commitment was due until 30 April of the current year for the previous year. It's interesting that in all these reports there are all the necessary data. They're in retirement and disability insurance branches, and everything else is unnecessary to the state, because that data already exists. The state was simply unable to insist on applying the rules it had made and to take certain measures to account for the payments of contributions finally and the payments. That, in my understanding, is what the claims have come to. It is not the employees' fault that employers did not pay contributions within the deadlines. I'm talking about those who know this stuff, about the M4 report, the M4 form. In this form is all written and these data exist. It is incomprehensible for me that there is an enrolment of insurance in the employment book, and many workers did not know that their employer did not pay them insurance. The moment they appear with a request to exercise pension and disability insurance rights, it is then concluded that their internship is not regulated, i.e. there are no data on the payment of pension and disability insurance contributions in the home records. Then the problem arises, so the pension and disability insurance branch directs the employee to sue the employer, sue the state, or I don't know who, as if the employee has the opportunity to exercise his rights in long-term disputes. So, I'm trying to draw your attention to just one detail: what's going on, because the bill promoter is silent, if I, as a worker, who hasn't regulated the internship for 10 years, don't sign that statement? Am I going to have to sue the Court of Justice in Strasbourg to exercise my rights, or will this state, in accordance with the regulations in force, insist that the employer of that obligation settle? One fact, which may be unknown to most MPs here: even today large state-owned enterprises, such as RTB Bor, do not pay their workers contributions to pension and disability insurance. I know the last year's data that hasn't been paid in a month. The pension-inhabited subsidiary in Bor will not accept an application for an M4 insurance until the employer pays. So he refuses to accept a security application. Therefore, this problem is not just earlier. It's still liquid today, and it's very acute. I mention RTB. I'm talking about big systems because the state owns it, because the state is an employer, so if the state doesn't pay for it, just profits, what the worker takes home, and doesn't pay all the profits, and he's counting and giving a receipt of the money paid every month, is that a fraud, is that a fraud? What's this about? Not everyone has to be taught to know and to insist on it, but it's happening today as before, and that's what's hardest and most painful for employees in the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20041	I thank Mr. Todorovic. Is anyone else answering for the amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic and Milisav Petronijevic. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ljiljana Nestorović submitted to the 4th Amendment. That amendment was withdrawn by her. On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Labour, the Boring and Social Affairs have tabled an amendment to Article 5. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. There is a word from the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20042	I hope you've noticed that today we're in fact having a principle debate on the proposal for this law, and that's normal and logical, given the fact that we talked about this law in some kind of 4-5 law package and that in the limited time we had at our disposal we couldn't talk about each law individually. One of the colleagues here said that this law was about to pass as something less important than the other laws of this so-called. packages. Of course, this law is significant, it's interesting, but it's not good. The government has seen the problem well and has tried some sort of partial and unscheduled solutions to indicate that it is ready to address the problem of paying contributions to pension and disability insurance for certain categories of insurance companies. But the way the government put it in the bill here is not good. It is not good from the first member, where the government says the law regulates conditions, cases, ways and means of financing contributions for pension and disability insurance to determine the insurance standings in the period from 1 January 1991 to 31 December 2003 for employees who have not been paid a contribution for pension and disability insurance. If by any chance the minister were here, I would ask him if he guaranteed that from 31 December 2003 to the day of today, every worker was paid this contribution for pension and disability insurance. Here, I say it's not, because we know it's not. We know the relationship between new owners who, we know, are mostly criminally involved in the privatisation process. We talked about these days that the essence of privatisation is to get to a good business space, not to worry about employees, that employees are mostly fired, and those who remain to work still have the same problem as the problem defined in this law, in Article 1, and only until 31 December 2003. On the other hand, what is foreseen by the law, I would say, as a good intention of the Government, has been adjudicated in Article 7, where we also have an amendment, because Article 7 clearly states that this law does not oblige anyone, because there is no sanction for one who does not fulfil his obligation under this law, and then it is lashed, clouded, left at the will of the Government, and in this case Minister Dinkic to say whether these payments would be or would not be compromised by the budget. As much as there is talk, and there are MPs here who will support this law and the minister, as this is now something epic that this government has come up with, we from the Serbian Radical Party want to say to the public that it is not true and that the fact that we will not vote for this law does not mean that we do not want these people who have not been paid a contribution to it done. On the contrary, that's what we want, but we claim that this is the law, this is how it's conjecture, actually just a dead letter on paper. The citizens, today as we talk about this and the day it is voted, will be pleased, because they will think – behold, thank God, they have solved this problem, and I will now be paid a contribution and then I will retire nicely. Of course, it won't be like that. This is one of the laws to be passed, and it is known in advance that it is not applicable. It's one of the reasons why we can't and we don't want to cheat on citizens and accept something that's just a dead letter on paper. When it comes to Article 5, which, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment, we have here a very interesting position. In fact, we don't know anything about it. We know that the amendment coming from the SRS parliamentary group does not accept, although every time we do, we receive what we have proposed by amendment through amendments and amendments to the law. Now, you see, he read earlier, chairing that the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has submitted an amendment to Article 5, which is in one part identical to the amendment that I have submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. Of course, this amendment of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has been adopted and it is an integral part of the law, and what was submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group cannot be accepted. It's about, at least in this part, the exact same text. In the rest of the amendment, it was also the same intention to effectively regulate this member of the law. Here, in Section 1 after that, the request for payment of contributions can also be submitted to the persons, and then listed which. We have said that this refers to the payment of contributions under the conditions laid down in Article 2 of this Act. Article 2 has been discussed in previous discussions and I am not repeating it now. So, a completely logical amendment, which really contributes to improving the text of the position of this member. In point 1) of the amendment, which is the amendment adopted when it comes to the committee in charge, says that the request for payment of contributions can be submitted by persons, and in the proposal stood – which worked with the employer who ceased to exist because of bankruptcy, liquidation, etc., and we said that instead of – persons who worked, it stands – persons who were in a working relationship. Finally, paragraph 4 here states in the government's proposal: "According to the requirement laid down in Articles 1 and 2 of this article, it is proof that the insurance company in the period referred to in Article 1 of this Law was in a working relationship. "We added here: "and was registered to security." We wanted to specify the provision and avoid proof of working relationship based on practical work, and without having an orderly application for insurance. I hope you are now fully aware that this amendment is applicable, necessary even if it is to be made to Article 5. The proposal for this law is also applicable to the absence of any dilemmas or of any open evidence options. So, what we've been talking about all day and about this previous law and now, we warn you that you have to make sure that a member of the law has to be clear, accurate and that it does not allow for abuse or at least free interpretation. Given that the minister is not here, and even if he is, I do not expect him to accept amendments to the Serbian Radical Party, I am not even sure he will accept the SPS amendments. I do not believe that fellow MPs will vote for these amendments, I think it would be best and best not to accept the SPS amendments in the day of the vote, so that the MPs of that parliamentary group keep their promise not to vote in favour of the law. To make this law nice in a new procedure, so that we can make after the election one real text and really help the citizens of Serbia and really do what we're saying to do, and not like this current government, to brag, to pass a law that will enroll, simply put into service. You will also see, however, that Serbian citizens will not get a year's work experience from this law in their workbook.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20043	Is anyone answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. That amendment has been withdrawn. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go, Mr. Crassy. The board submitted to Article 6, and Meso withdrew the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20044	I asked for another amendment to article 6 that is falling away from the concept, but since that amendment has been withdrawn, in short lines I will explain this amendment to Article 6 that Dr. Pai Momchilov has submitted. Article 6 The bill reads: "The request laid down in Articles 4 and 5 of this Act can be submitted within three months of the date of entry into force of this law. "Article 4 is prescribed that part, the kind of procedure where the employer submits an application and Article 5 where the natural person submits the application. I think it's a three-month period and it's too short, because this is a one-time law and because someone may have changed firms twice, it can't fit that under a person that would be covered by an employer's request from Article 4, so maybe if he can, by Article 5, file a request, etc. I think it would be good if that deadline extended from three to six months, that within a relatively long time, this law was exhausted. Since this change is very simple to explain, I will take the opportunity to point out what is inevitably followed by Article 6, which refers to the matter regulated by Article 7. It's a bill of law. The government here has given a very strange procedure as it directly enforces the law. We've got two procedures here. The first procedure - that on the basis of this request submitted by the employer or the person of the Fund determines something and makes a solution, as you have called it, which determines the right to payment of the contribution. As far as this solution applies to an individual's insurance company, it is executed by the State, the Ministry of Finance, by transferring funds from the budget. Only after the fund has received proof that the state has transferred funds from the budget to Janko Jankovic, then the fund makes, in the second part of the process, a solution that determines the insurance hold. It's complicated. If that's the way it's supposed to be done, then we don't need this law at all, or that law could have some other form. The form of this law could, for example, be one member of the budget law, where it would stand: from the position and and so much funds being transferred to the PIO staff fund, on behalf of the payment of pension income from that year to that year, according to the PIO Fund. This way is a conflicting way. I guess the purpose of this law that we're making is that the insurance company gets a solution that recognises its insurance internship that the employer didn't pay for, but the state, based on this law, has paid. Does she have to pay immediately? He doesn't have to. We're passing this law because of an insurance company that needs to exercise some rights. We don't pass this law because of the employer or the budget. That is why in the amendment to Article 7, we are giving the full procedure and giving priority, because if this remains what the Government has proposed, then the establishment of the pension staff of Janko Jankovic will depend much more on the Ministry of Finance than on this law. You said here: a list of the names the transfer of funds refers to, etc. Why would we be interested in that? This is where the state took the obligation to pay that contribution. If the state has taken that responsibility, it must be fulfilled. Is it going to be fulfilled within two months, five months, a year, two years, we don't know that, but we're passing the law in order to get a concrete insurance company as soon as possible. Look how the government imagined it. He says: "The Fund is obliged, if the conditions laid down by this law are met, to adopt a solution which determines the right to pay the contribution under this law, no later than 12 months after the date of submission of the application. "Then he says: "The decision of the First Article shall be delivered to the employer, the employee, the person of Article 5 of this Law and the Ministry of Finance Affairs. The right to determine the staff insurance of the persons referred to in Article 2 of this Act shall be obtained when funds from the budget of the Republic are transferred to the Fund... ". So the individual's right depends on whether Mladjan Dinkic transferred funds from the Fund's budget. Then why are we passing the law? Then one member of the budget law – The younger one decides on life, death, etc. The next position says, after the payment of the contribution, the Fund makes a solution to the establishment of the insurance standings. How long before he gets a solution to recognize his insurance internship? Then we're free to pass the law. So in the principle debate, we said that we liked the idea of this attitude connecting, that the state was paying contributions, but the methodology that you prescribed for us is unacceptable. What do we suggest? We propose that Article 7 reads: "For a person who fulfils the conditions laid down by the provisions of this Act, the Fund is obliged to adopt a solution that determines: the right to pay contributions, to calculate the amount of contributions, profits, i.e. the basis of insurance in accordance with Article 3 of this Act; the period and length of the insurance standings". The following point is inserted: "The Fund is obliged to make the solution set out in Article 1 at the latest within 12 months of the day of submission of the application, by having to provide the right of the resolution priority under the following order: persons who have obtained the right to retire and who are not included in their insurance internship in their insurance and pension base established by the decision of Article 1(1)." We've got people who, without a related job experience, have earned their pension right. If this law is passed, they are granted that pension internship, whether it's two months, two years, etc. As a beneficiary of the right under the Pension-Invalid Insurance Act, for this pension internship and this basis, it can achieve an increased right, a more quality right that it already uses. Second priority: "A person who has a solution to the 1st position of this member is a condition for the exercise of the right to pension". Maybe someone needs to put three or four years of work together, and he's just so short of a pension right. Why would his right depend on whether the younger one will pay or not? We make this law exactly as soon as possible to achieve the right to retire, because it has formally-legally met the requirements, except that this contribution has not yet been paid, and the state assumes by law the obligation to pay the contributions. This creates a presummation that the state has guaranteed and paid contributions to all these solutions that are recognised as a retirement internship. If we're bringing this in for budget stability, not insurance rights, then I can't raise my hand. How am I supposed to vote for this law? Third priority: "A person who, within 12 months of the day of entry into force of this law, is entitled to pension." So someone who is entitled to retirement in a year falls into the third priority group to be recognised as this internship. This is the order of decision-making, not the order of recognition of law. The law has recognised everyone's rights. Then the Fund, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, let these accounting matters be completed, how will what be recorded, etc. We legally create a presummation that the state guarantees payment of contributions to this internship. That's why one of these members has reason to say that the employee gives written consent to this operation that the company is seeking to connect the internships. Why? Because in the last provision of this law, litigation is stopped. How many court disputes are there where citizens sue their former firms who have not paid their contributions and cannot exercise their right. If you signed that this is how you want to connect the internship, then you can't exercise your right in court, not as the younger one writes and says - he gives up his rights. How can the law say whether someone gives up or not? He can't even say – he's believed to have given up. Either he's right or he's wrong. The following priority: "According to the years of age of persons whose decision under Article 1 is not a condition for the exercise of pension rights". So, everybody else. "The decision of the first member's position shall be delivered to the employer, the employee, the person of Article 5 of this law, the Ministry of Finance, the ministry responsible for pension and disability insurance affairs. On behalf of the established insurance staff, according to the solutions set out in Article 1 of this article, the payment of the contribution shall be made by the Ministry responsible for the financial affairs through the transfer of funds to the Fund from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and within the framework of the... "and so on. "The transfer of funds under Article 4 cannot question the execution of a solution under Article 1, which is the recognition of the internship, "or the exercise of the right... ". You can't exercise the rights you recognize under this law to bind to whether the younger one paid a contribution or not, or some list. It doesn't make sense. Then we're free to work, we're free to pass the law. Then the fund, the ministry and the ministry take care of each other's records and compensate each other. I – The Ministry of Pension and Disabilities Insurance is obliged to prescribe a way of achieving the priorities set out in Article 2. This is now the order in which solutions will be made in the services of pension and disability insurance funds, solutions that recognise the insurance internship. So we have summed up these two pieces that the proposer represents in one unique procedure. We've covered everything. When the referent adopts a solution, it writes a period, a basis, a profit, the amount of contributions to be paid by the Republic of Serbia's budget to the PIO Fund. And, of course, we kept that from the position of the transfer to the mandatory insurance funds, there was a payment that covered the contribution to this internship. We haven't touched the provision regarding what the base is and how it's calculated. We're not, because we think that this minimum base is acceptable to this operation that's going on, but for us, it's unacceptable that with two solutions, two procedures make it impossible for the insurance company to exercise its right. We're passing a law to get the insurance company a solution that's established the insurance and contributions to pay for the state. On the basis of this solution on the established insurance effort, it enters the pension and disability insurance system in terms of the exercise of rights. Who needs a solution first? Those who have already exercised their right, and that period is not covered by them. Furthermore, the next priority is those who have the condition of obtaining a pension solution, and then those who retire within a year with that new internship, all others by age. Of course, one who got a job with a 20-year job in 1990, even if he wasn't paid a dime in this period, will likely be entitled to a pension in 20 years. He receives a solution to the established insurance effort, but for him, the solution is now not a condition for him to exercise pension rights. Its solution can be made in both the 11th month and the 25th day since this law came into force, but whoever is already using the pension and is not recognised by the law, it needs to get this solution immediately in order to seek in a new procedure to determine his new pension amount based on this internship and this insurance. We don't have the government's position on this. I've spread a little bit to article seven that's next. Article 2 and Article 7 or amendments to Articles 2 and 7 shall form the basis of this Act. If these two amendments are not accepted, then we are free to pass this law. Then experts only make it difficult for people to exercise their rights, and the idea is indeed commendable – to connect people with this internship, and there is no dispute. Why harass people with two solutions? A presummation is created here that, when the employer submitted a request for recognition of this internship, he submitted the list, it is understood that the employee submitted a request to request him to determine his insurance standing. Why is that understood? He had this right in his hands, only lacked a contribution to pay and the employer initiated a procedure to regulate the payment of contributions and, by law, he received a solution to determining the insurance standings. There's no need for two solutions. What would that first solution look like? The right to payment of contributions shall be determined. Who has the right to make contributions? State. The state has a duty, not a right. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20045	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic, but the amendment was withdrawn. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20046	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group and this Article 9, which we are asking for to be changed, is strictly tied to Article 7 which is, in fact, a key member of this law, which was spoken of by Mr Zoran Krasic, with the fact that it is not only a farce in this article 7 and the deception of the Serbian citizens that this law will make it easier for those who have not been paid to join the work force and to get the opportunity to retire, but also an explanation by the promoters. It is incomprehensible that Minister Lalovic has amnesia and that, in addition to his cynical attitude and his insolence yesterday and his address to the MPs, he has ignored one period whose active participant, as of October 5th, that mob coup that took place in Serbia, to this day. If the minister in the draft labour law called for a period of time between Milka Planinc and Branko Mikulic that they were still guilty, of course, of course the entire freak system was one-party and communist, which was very bad for the economy, not only of Serbia but also of the former Yugoslavia, then there was a period of sanctions and unremembered bombing and isolation of our country, as it is possible not to mention in any of these laws when it talks about the difficult situation of our economy from 5 October 2000 to today. It is not only a period of eight years, since May 1992, when we were imposed economic sanctions by political and financial mentors who came to power on 5 October, but it continued from 2000 to today. When he was so taxing, he was supposed to say that the robbery, the theft, the kidnapping by the dosmans in power and the tycoon associated with them happened. Then there was a period when factories, which after the bombing and sanctions were restored, were placed under locks. Not that cheater Karic and under that chain, because he continued to be rich in the period of time, and I see that he lacked nothing even under Kostunica's authority, he tightened the ring around him, and Bogoljub continues to wash hundreds of millions of euros; no, but factories that were raised from the foundation or completely restored production processes. Of course, counterpart Krasic will not boast of it, because he is as a minister and an honorable man, participating in the work of the Republic government from 1998 to 2000, has done much, just like other fellow SRS ministers, to launch production in factory halls that were closed after October 5th. Here's an obvious example: the textile industry, the factory "December 22nd" from Kragujevac, which has worked very hard and collaborated with the state in terms of sewing equipment needed for the military and police, not under suspicious circumstances and contracts, but everything you would say was transparent. This period and the possibility that the factory would stand on its feet, along with the very favourable credit arrangements it received at the time from the Republic government, whose vice president was Professor Vojislav Seselj, which is very important because he was the chairman of the government's Committee on Budget and Finance. Then you knew exactly where every dinar from the Republic of Serbia's budget was going, not like this time, when every one of them was going to do whatever they wanted. The factory was launched, production began also on people, tailors and all those employed in the factory, for the period for which no contributions were paid, the country slowly began to care, and the government, by making one project and programme to strengthen that part of the Kraguje industry. The same is true of the factory "Philip Kljajic" from Kragujevac or the meat industry "Red Star", which was completely robbed after October 5th and brought into bankruptcy. Once the best meat-product factory, the meat-processing industry is now nonexistent, it's gone, there's no equipment, there's nothing, empty factory hall and people on the streets. Many other such cases, and since the minister has already listed all these reasons why such a law should be passed, it is amazing that he skipped a period of robbery and kidnapping from October 5th to today. That's really amazing. As for Article 9, he says: "Right on pension, or on an increased pension based on the training of insurance paid under this law, the earliest date of payment of contributions is due in accordance with this law. "First, let's explain, for citizens or MPs who don't know, who are those persons who are entitled to this increased pension based on the insurance standings. Most of the time, it's miners; not you, gentlemen, MPs, who think it's very difficult for you, apparently, to be buried, so you're not in daylight, and it's very hard for you to sit in the messenger benches, but real miners who come down into the nets, do some with equipment, believe it or not, from 1939. And it's usually known by our mining industry, that we have some parts and some mines of equipment from 1939. Since these people, or those who work in a metal complex or in the chemical industry, are exposed to dangerous risks and very difficult working conditions, talk about them when they are entitled to retirement. The member is meaningless without change, which I have proposed by amendment on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. So this amendment of mine has been conditioned by the entire concept of the SRS to restore the meaning of this law. So, in my amendment, I asked that the words "payments of contributions in accordance with this law" be read, which I read, replace the words "to make a solution under Article 7(1) of this law", but not by making a decision in Article 7(1) as predicted by the Government, but as predicted by Mr Zoran Krasic with his amendment. If this Article 7 is not adopted, or Mr. Zoran Krasic's amendment, which is directly linked to both Article 2 and Article 9, there is no possibility of connecting the internships and the service of those debts, that is to say, to the retirement people, because every time it happens to Mladjan Dinkic or someone else from the Government of the Republic of Serbia – but above all, because he keeps everything under his paw and you put the budget in his hands, and we told Kostunica nicely when he put up with the exposures that he would trust a man who should be behind prison bars, and manages state finances – to say: it endangers the liquidity of the budget. The workers "December 21st" from Kragujevac or from "Philip Kljajic" or from the RC "Belgrade" and Mladja say – we can't, the liquidity of the budget has been compromised, the IMF said, I broke that appraisal, or I overstepped how much it is allowed. So what are these people gonna do? The state can't act like an employer. Although we have the ballast of that time, and that's what I was talking about at the beginning of the interpretation of amendments, communist periods, social property, everyone's and nobody's, and that's what needs to change in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, these people worked with the employer, that is, in a company where they had the opportunity to accomplish their working life, and the state is now taking care of them, but it says -- if there's any money not to jeopardize the liquidity of the budget, we'll pay you, and if you don't, go ahead and wait. So, the miners, and those who work in the metal complex, in the chemical industry, and the cops, and the soldiers and all those who can make a pension under Article 9, means all those categories, they must be strictly tied to Article 7 or the amendment submitted by Zoran Krasic. The law will only make sense if the solution is obtained under Article 7(1), as provided for by the Serbian Radical Party and Mr Krasic's amendment, which means: "For a person who meets the conditions laid down by the provisions of this law, the Fund is required to adopt a solution laying down: the right to pay contributions, to calculate the amount of contributions, profits, i.e. the basis of insurance in accordance with Article 3 of this Act; the period and length of the insurance standings. The Fund is obliged to deliver a solution to Article 1 of this Article no later than 12 months after the date of submission of the request, by having to ensure the right of the resolution priority under the following order... "The order is most rational and correct, as predicted by Mr Krasic. Therefore, firstly: persons who have obtained the right to retire and who are not included in the insurance internship and the pension base established by Article 1(1) of this Article; persons who are subject to a pension right requirement under Article 1; persons who, within 12 months of the date of entry into force of this law, are entitled to retirement; according to age and persons whose decision under Article 1 of this Article is not a condition for the exercise of pension rights. Absolutely, then, the government, which represents the state, i.e. the state of the Republic of Serbia, cannot be granted the responsibility of the government, which must be guaranteed that this is the case for members of the 7th and the 9th members to exercise their right to retire. Otherwise, the law doesn't make sense, another one in a row of farces. To inform both you and the citizens of Serbia that, unlike yesterday, Lalovic is not at the bar of the Serbian Parliament today, I have been informed that he is not even in the restaurant, so he did not come to the building, he is not interested in this, an empty story, the deception of citizens, just as this law will be if you do not adopt the amendments of the SRS to Articles 2, 7 and 9 of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20047	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20048	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is about one more technical amendment. However, the government is now not as a proponent of the obligation to deliver its opinion to the MPs. The minister is not here to make a statement about this amendment, he's probably got something better to do than listen to MPs who comment on the bill. So, Article 10, which I submitted an amendment to on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, says: "The Minister in charge of PIO affairs closer will edit the way and procedure of submitting requests, as well as the form and content of the form of requests and the list of Articles 4 and 5 of this Law. "What is said in Article 4? In Article 4: "The request for payment of the contribution shall be submitted by the employer to employees who have been in a working relationship during the period and under the conditions laid down in Article 2(1) of this Act and are still in a working relationship with the employer. The request shall be submitted by a branch of the Republic Fund for PIO staff - according to the employer’s seat (hereinafter referred to as the Fund). The application shall be accompanied by: 1) a list of employees who have not been paid a contribution, which includes a period for which no contribution has been paid, with a contract on work or decision, or a solution on the establishment of a working relationship; 2) written consent of the employee to accept the payment of the contribution under this law; 3) a copy of evidence that employees have been declared to the Insurance Fund during that period. In addition to the requirements laid down in Article 1, the employer is obliged to submit to the Fund a list of persons who have ceased to be employed by him, who meet the conditions for payment of contributions under this law, with evidence that those persons have been declared to be insurance. "So when you look at this Article 4, nothing is disputed about Article 10. The bill, but with my amendment, I asked that part of the text "and of Article 5 of this law" be deleted. Why? If Article 5 is looked at, which says: "The request for payment of contributions can also be submitted by persons: who have worked with an employer who has ceased to exist; who have moved to work with another employer; who have stopped working with the employer; for whom the employer has not submitted a request under Article 4 of this Act. For the deceased insurance company, i.e. the beneficiary of pension and disability insurance rights... ". Further: "The request from this member shall be submitted to the Fund", etc. etc. Why did I ask for an amendment to take this part of the text "and Article 5." Delete? As I said at the beginning of my discussion, it is a technical amendment, because Article 10 says the minister prescribes the form and content of the form required and the list set out in Articles 4 and 5. The question arises – which list in Article 5? Anyone who reads Article 5 more carefully, who thinks a little bit, will see that the request is submitted by an individual. So, a person who, on a different basis, wants to exercise the right of this law, does it because he changed his job, and does not have the obligation of his current employer to report it, did he, on some other basis, stop the employment relationship (e.g. liquidation, bankruptcy, dismissal, etc.).) or simply his employer does not want for some reason, because the law does not have criminal provisions, to report him to exercise his right to Navalid-Pension Insurance in that period from 1991 to 2003. So it's just one technical amendment that needs to specify the form of the law, meaning what the minister prescribes and under what conditions. With this amendment, Mr. Minister would have less to do with himself, if this amendment were accepted, he would have less to do. It seems that Mr. Minister has far more important work to do now than to be here in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to defend this law before the MPs, to accept or reject certain amendments, with reasons. So much for some alleged concern for employees, for Serbian citizens. When a little more is entered into the essence of this law, it can be seen that its application is possible only if the authorised proposal for the budget of the Republic of Serbia approves the funds for this law; in this case, it is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So we're passing the law, we're going to make some lists, requirements, statistics, but it's exclusively the right of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Minister of Finance to provide for funds for the implementation of this law in the draft budget. There are no criminal provisions if he doesn't see them coming. So, one pure demagogy. Looks like the coalition is slowly rocking. There seems to be less and less MPs supporting this government. It gives the impression that someone wants with a bill like this, which never has to be implemented, to get some better conditions for the election campaign, as -- we wanted those contributions to regulate, but we couldn't, we weren't in a situation to enforce the law. If you vote us again, we will continue to enforce this law and thus deceive the citizens for some of the rights given to them by this law. There are still a few questions when this bill, as it is concluded, is quick, and this desire to obtain only certain political points – for which reasons; most likely that this government is working, to think of Serbian citizens, and the right background is, when looking at the public debt law for pensions, where certain financial lobbies will once again in the country, such as foreign savings, children's allowances, etc., means, through the broadcasting of securities of value, to garner money to the detriment of citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20049	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Ljiljana Nestorovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new article 10a be added after article 10a. A representative of the proposings and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Branislav Rankic. Here you go, Mr. Raki.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20050	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 11. The bill that Article 11 "declares rights" replaces the words "and the establishment of the insurance standings cannot". I'll read you article 11 to see what it's all about. It is a matter of persons who, with the written consent of Article 4(3) of this Act or at the request of Article 5 of this Act, exercise the right to make contributions, the proposal states: "the right to the employer, the competent court and the other competent authority require the payment of a possible difference in the contribution to pension and disability insurance". This amendment suggests that instead of "noding" it is said that the payment of contributions and the establishment of insurance standings cannot be made with the employer, the competent court, etc. seek a possible difference of contribution. Of course, the argument is very simple: one cannot be ordered by law to give up this right, but the law can limit the exercise of certain rights. However, regardless of what the fate of this amendment or the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party, or the law in general, the law will not apply. It is quite clear, if you see it in an explanation, where the assessment of the financial resources required to implement this law is carried out. It is literally said here that the implementation of this law does not require any additional funding, where it is said that payments of these mandatory social insurances, which have not been made, and you have heard that they are more than 200,000 employees, in certain periods of time, will be made on the basis of those funds that are already scheduled to be transferred to the PIO Fund. It's logical that we didn't talk before, and yesterday, about the Law on PIO, where it wasn't said by that law that part of the budget would also apply to covering these expenditures of these mandatory contributions that weren't paid, but that law, you saw, very restrictive towards the pensioners. I'm going to try at least two or three more ways to convince you why the government doesn't want this law to apply and why it can fall under marketing laws. The parallel is inevitably imposed, when it comes to this law, with that law that we also passed, which is called the Law on the Recording of Taken Property. You have heard that there is a birth record for all those who can practically exercise the right which this law declares to them. There's a background record for all those who were employed during this period. It is absolutely unnecessary to submit written forms and written consent that they are employed by the employer to whom this law applies agree to accept the payment of compulsory pension-inhabited insurance. Why can't it be done? First, because Article 10 provides that the minister will regulate both the conditions and prescribe the application forms. Article 6, of course, requires that applications be submitted within three months. Where the employer applies, unless he has submitted within the agreed time limit, he must know whether or not the employer has submitted it. He's got to check it out. The question is, will there be any information? If information is obtained, he, as referred to in point 4 of Article 5, unless the employer has submitted a request, shall have the right to submit that request to the person concerned. This means that within a short period of three months, as well as the Law on the Recording of Taken Assets, surely not all those to whom this applies will be able to sign consent. You also heard in earlier discussions that for those who do not sign written consent the law does not foresee at all what will happen, how they will exercise their rights, whether in front of domestic courts or others. One more thing. This law very much reminds the large number of other laws that the Government proposes, which offer certain declarative rights to the groups to which it relates or to the individuals to whom it applies, but when the law comes into force, it is all annulled, or in the further development of certain members of the law, all of this is annulled in advance. Here I will remind you of the almost adopted Law on Higher Education, where at the beginning of the law, certain principles that the law must respect are very loudly announced. One of the principles was equality on all grounds. Already in some of the following members, where it is said that higher education institutions have their own advice, that the number of members of the council is odd, that two-thirds of the council is given by the institution, it says - all members of the council are equal, but the president of the council can only be the one appointed by the institution. You can see that in the beginning one principle of equality has already experienced its fiasco in the following members; although they have practically equal rights in voting, one or two groups of these members cannot do anything, i.e. They can't be even with this first one. Here, for all these reasons I've given you this law will not be applied, whether you adopt it or not. I wish the finance minister were here and to explain to us that this will happen, that pensions and pensions will not be reduced, that the government has a desire to participate in the budget financing of pension expenditures over time, and that the same funds that are allocated to finance succeed in paying what is provided for in this law. That's completely impossible. It shows that the law is not really a sincere desire for the government to solve this problem, but it can serve for marketing purposes and it is certainly not to be applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20051	Thank you, does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20052	With this amendment, we're correcting something that shouldn't be in the law. It may seem modest, but all we're asking is for these words to change, "the rights to break." So to formulate it in a different way, that one cannot, by two, establish the same right. But to write it down and describe it in the words "declare," it's legally impossible as far as our regulations are concerned. That's clear. What concerns is that the government has not yet adopted an opinion on our amendments, and I guarantee all MPs of the National Assembly here that the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party, as one package, improves the bill. This law seems to be clearer and more effective in this way. I am merely saying: we differ in the fact that the Government protects the budget with its draft law, promotes the minister again, and we amend the bill with amendments and put the insurance company first. Our goal is the same - to connect the job experience, to recognise people's insurance training because someone didn't pay mandatory contributions. We didn't want to open up any other questions that would inevitably withdraw this law. One of these issues is that there are already solutions from the period when the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund has managed to control the payment of contributions, where profit based on which the base was also determined what the obligations of employers are. We're not opening that question. We don't even open the question that the basic insurance probably in some cases was higher than the one prescribed by law, because we think that in this initiative to admit it to everyone, it's not that important. But the two amendments we've submitted are in charge. They express the essence of this law, and, of course, the concept of disagreement. This is our amendment to Article 2 and our amendment to Article 7. It's a bill of law. I ask the MPs to adopt these two amendments for insurance reasons, because if this double procedure remains as proposed by the Government in Article 7, then in the first part a solution is made to determine the right to pay the contributions, which becomes a completely imaginary category, and then the question of payment depends not on the law, but on the Minister of Finance. When that part is finished, then a solution is made to determine the insurance standings. When can an insurance company exercise some pension-involvement rights? Only when this second solution is made. We propose that only one solution be made and that the exercise of the right under that solution does not depend on whether the finance minister has transferred funds to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund or not, nor are we asking the question of when the funds will be transferred in fact. Why? Because we care about that security guard, based on that solution, to exercise his rights. That's what this is about. I ask you to accept these two amendments, so that we, 100%, adopt this law to make it truly applicable, to be clear, because everyone in this room is in the interest of these people exercising their rights. If you don't adopt our amendments and you're stubbornly going towards this concept, and you're not going to solve the problem that exists, you're not going to get any political points, because you're going to get insurance, when they see that they've got one solution, and they're waiting a few months for another solution, so they're going to ask for a new right based on that internship, then just make a complication. And anyway, the issue of pension and disability insurance, the deficit of that fund, the fill-in of those holes is resolved through, why not say, public debt. And this is kind of a public debt. You have even a good excuse, as a government, according to all possible institutions -- not to volunteer or not to know how the Pension-Invalid Insurance Fund, but based on the law that connects the internship. You also have an excuse for those you fear. All benefit from the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party. Don't give the individual a personal right to commit to finding the minister. Don't! As you have formulated half of the article 7, everything depends on the minister, not on the state of finance and the budget, but on the minister - how much he has transferred and the money the list is being followed by names and last names. There's no need for a list. Why is there an unnecessary list? Well, payment of contributions is an employer's obligation. And now, when the employer pays the contribution, there's no specificity, it's collected, so they compare these payments to the data from M4, and then the difference is who he's been paying for, who's covering these payments. Why are you bringing this in now, like the payment is always done on every account in the name and last name? It's not happening. You're complicating the work and the people at the Fund, in the professional service of the Fund. They should run two double jobs: first one service right on payment, then another service right on internship. Unnecessarily. By passing this law, it is not a problem and to extend that deadline for submitting applications. It is not, at the very least, a problem to extend the deadline for making a solution, but to preserve these priorities, that the deadline is not a reason why someone cannot exercise the right. You have a category of people who are already retired, and this internship hasn't entered their account. You have a category of people waiting to retire, and they could retire right now, just to give them an internship. In order to confess, this payment has to be made. You have a category with this internship in a year's time to retire. They're the priority group. These younger people, who are 20, 30 years old, can make a solution for a year, a year and a half, is not a big problem, because they are not denied right, that's what this is about. That's why we suggested this priority, because we know what the problem is with that internship and why it came about. Please accept these two of our main amendments, and the case wanted to coincide with other parliamentary groups, when it comes to Article 2. I would prefer that the amendments to Article 7 have been accompanied by representatives and other parliamentary groups to give their views on the amendment. Obviously, for the insurance company, that's the most important amendment. We are passing this law for insurance, not for the Republic of Serbia's budget. We've got someone twisting things here, so one good idea, which needs to be realized for a man, turned to be realized for the budget. It's more about the state of the budget. (President: Time, Mr. Krassic. This is all fiction, you know. This is a kind of public debt that the state takes over.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20053	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 11a be added after article 11. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Meho Omerovic submitted an amendment asking for a new article 11a to be added after article 11. He withdrew his amendment. Since we have completed a review of the draft law in particular, does the representative of Proposer Slobodan Lalovic, Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy want to give the final word? No, I don't. He's not in the O.R. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of a commitment to the Republic Fund for Pensions and Invalid Security of Employees under the basis of non-paid pensions and monetary benefits (single) you have received a report from the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a search of the bill, in particular. Since amendments have not been submitted to the bill before I conclude the search in particular, does Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, want to give the final statement? No, because he's not in the O.R. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the re-reimbursement of the Republic Fund on Pensions and Invalidal Security of the Polijoprijevnik established under the basis of the outstanding pensions and monetary benefits (single) you have received an amendment to the bill submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a search of the bill, in particular. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20054	There was no amendment on the occasion of the previous point. We respected the government's request to regulate itself through public debt outstanding pensions to employees, insurance companies on account of their employment. The total debt is 23.5 billion, and it is one and a half outstanding pensions. There's a three-year deadline. As far as farmers are concerned, it's 20.5 pensions that haven't been paid. The total debt is 20 billion. We suggest that the debt settles within the same time limit as the debt to pensioners who were formerly employed. So all we're asking is that article 4 of this bill be changed, and in the part where deadlines are set, since it was in January, here you took the stand to be in February. We accepted it, so the deadlines were February 20, 2006, 20 February 2007 and 20 February 2008. We differ, practically, in two years and in the height of what happens on an annual level. The government divided it into one fifth each year and the deadline was 20 February 2010. We believe, both were necessarily insured, the state forced them to be necessarily insured. Both states owe each and every other, as you can see, that's about the same amount, to the employees one and a half pensions, and these 20 pensions. They are equal and even in their rights in accordance with the law, since we now need to promote this equality and equality. We think it's acceptable to settle their claims within the same deadlines. That's why we submitted this amendment. I hope these reasons are quite enough for you to realize that this amendment should be supported. I'm surprised the government didn't accept it, because I don't see what would be a valid reason to make this division. The funds are the same. The status part is the same. In the case of employees, this insurance has been in place for 90 years. Earlier, it was 1921. The law on subsidisation, etc. In 1985, landowners were forced into this mandatory retirement and disability insurance system. Before that, they only had health insurance as mandatory. During one period of eighty-something years, the possibility of voluntary PIO insurance was given through basic organisations, cooperatives, cooperatives, etc. Then in 1985, and maybe even wrong year, it doesn't matter, it's one big action that they go into compulsory insurance, and the farmers are forced into that insurance. No one can get out of it now. The state takes the responsibility, so it takes the responsibility. On the other hand, the catastrian income, the small income of the fund, is a big dubiosis, can't be settled, and the fact that pensions in that insurance system are more than symbolic. We believe that the budget of the Republic of Serbia, when it already defines the public debt, must also take into account this fact. We don't see any valid reason why there would be a division between these two categories of pensioners. There's no reason. I call upon the MPs to accept this. This won't do any harm, we'll just show that as a National Assembly, we don't share citizens according to social background, status and otherwise. And not to remind you here, full of mouths to everyone watching the peasants, etc. Let's start looking after the peasants on this one.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20055	Thank you. The word is made by MP Mika Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20056	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a shame the minister came out and isn't here, maybe he could accept this amendment. It is a dangerous fact that Serbian citizens are again divided into first and second-class citizens. It's almost the same amount in both insurance and insurance. In the insurance of employees it is one and a half pensions, in the insurance of farmers it is twenty-and-a-half pensions. I even had one proposal, if it can't be done in three years, let it extend to each other for four years. Farmers are reporting and supporting this, because since the war in 1945, these people have kept social peace. The fact that pension payments to the farmer's fund were small was not a ciction in farmers or a desire to give little to the state, but a situation that they couldn't do more. Always the price scissors went to the expense of farmers and farmers and couldn't pay more. That pension is so lame, it's 3,000 on the monthly level and it's paid twice at 1,500. Imagine what a farmer can do with that money and how he can live. If he got this, it would be a solution for him; especially older farmers who have a small area of land, when they sell it in a lease, they get very little compensation, and that pension and that compensation, they still somehow succeed. If the lowest pension is 6,000 since 2006, the peasant will probably be 6,000, so it would be one shift again. That's why I think the minister, while there's still time, should accept this amendment and equate farmers with the citizens, not to be, as they were for years, citizens of the second order.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-22-0.u20057	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the draft law in particular, does the representative of Proposer Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance, want a word? Since he's not in the O.R., he doesn't want to. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. This is where we finished our work for today. The session continues on Monday 26 September 2005, at 10.00 hours.
