ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19412	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Article 85, paragraph 1 states that meetings of the National Assembly are held on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays between 10.00 and 18.00 hours, and Article 86, paragraph 2, says that if the president finds that at the beginning of the working day in the session hall at least one third of the MPs are not present, the session is postponed by one hour. At 10.00, there wasn't enough MPs here. Now, Mr. Markovic, it's 10.10 hours, so I'd like you to give me an explanation in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or possibly that the Assembly declares that the time is back 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19413	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. So, just like that, Article 86(2) says -- if the president finds that at the beginning of the working day, therefore, when it comes to the meeting room, at least one third of the MPs are not present, the session will be postponed by one hour. At the beginning of the working day we found out, and it can't be safe before 10.00 hours, because the Assembly works from 10.00 to 1800 hours. And that's why the next attitude is very clear -- unless not even after the start of the session has been moved for an hour. And if it had been wished, and if the Proposer of the Rules of Procedure wanted it to be exactly 10.00 hours and exactly at 11.00 p.m., the third position would have been, if it wasn't at 11.00 p.m. However, it is clearly said - if not one hour after the attempt to open the session. So in no way does it speak of an atomic timer or an attempt to exact the return of time. Thank you. Are you satisfied with the answer? Yes or no? Oh, no? Thank you. It's a business thing. Please, MP Nemanja Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19414	Mr. Markovic, I have warned you before that you are absolutely not trying to force me to come out of a place, from a hallway, or anywhere else, except from a pay phone, about anything. So here in this room is only spoken from the pay phone, and whether I'm satisfied with your explanation or not, I'll explain right from here. Of course, I'm not happy with your explanation. I think your explanation is shameful, just like I think your behavior is shameful. If you think that some unreasonable people are sitting here, that someone who can't read and break this rules of procedure is sitting here, then you're wrong. Don't give yourself more authority than you have, and you certainly don't have the authority to make a fool out of anyone here. I don't know if you think there's anyone forgetable here, that he doesn't remember how you explained these very members of the Rules of Procedure when you suggested this unfortunate Rules of Procedure. You yourself said that the sessions will begin at exactly 10.00 in the morning, which is said by Article 85, because he does not tell Mr Markovic that the session will start at 10.00 hours, and sometimes in another period, he says that the working day starts at 10.00 hours, clearly and loudly. So, if you don't have a quorum at 10.00 hours, you're required to delay the start of the session by one hour or simply admit that you've violated the Rules of Procedure, and even this sinister Rules of Procedure, as we have today, you don't want to respect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19415	Thank you. Of course, first I give you a warning for insulting the MPs of the people, for it is not a shame to quote the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So, once again, I have quoted correctly, there is no specific of this type, as there is no specifics that would ask that the MP, after explaining the National Assembly president, appear at the pay phone and then give an explanation. No, the Rules of Procedure make it clear that, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains in charge of the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will decide without delay on the issue of the voting day. Well, I'm asking you, like before, if you're satisfied with this explanation. So once again I ask you, first, are you satisfied with the clarification? No, I don't. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19416	Mr. Markovic, perhaps it would be best if you had resigned even after the SRS asked for it, because it is obvious that you either do not understand these provisions of the Rules of Procedure or for your known reasons do not want to apply them. Are you saying somewhere in the Rules of Procedure that MPs should speak from their place? Then you take this box and you take it out, you throw it somewhere, you'll only have microphones left and then you do whatever you want. So, as a People's MP, I have the right to state whether I am satisfied with your explanation of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which I have claimed has been done. If I am not satisfied, the Rules of Procedure say that the Assembly will plead without debate, that means that when the day comes for the vote, no new and special debate will be held, no parliamentary groups will have five hours to discuss whether or not the breach of the Rules of Procedure has been done. So you've misread this provision as well. I urge you once again to answer me whether at 10.10 it's really that long, or if the majority of the assembly can vote to say it's not 10.10, now it's 10.00. You can plead and it's Saturday, but it's up to you. I just want to stamp your illegal behavior, to keep it for history, how you brutally violated this act that you yourself have proposed and which your congregation majority voted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19417	Since this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, there's no need for any clarification. You just checked in with the Rules of Procedure. You called again for the violation of the Rules of Procedure because the session didn't begin at exactly 10.00 p.m. Once again, I ask you to read carefully Article 85(1), which says that the sessions are held on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday between 10.00 and 18.00 hours, with an interruption of one hour, and Article 86, which says, "If the president finds that at the beginning of the working day," so not at 10.00, "there are not at least one third of the MPs present in the session room, the session is postponed by one hour. "And Section 3 says, "Unless even after the start of the session of one hour has been moved," so the norm does not read - after the check at 11.00 hours, but "unless even after the start of the session of one hour there are no conditions for the start of the session of the National Assembly, the session is postponed for the next day." In our case, there was no one hour shift, and there was no need for it to move, because at the beginning of the working day at 10.05 or 10.06 minutes, as long as there was a moment when the president, through the application of the electronic system, found the presence of 89 MPs, so more than one third, there is no reason why I repeat again, we are talking about the injury of the Rules of Procedure. You wanted to go through the Rules of Procedure one more time? Here you go, Mr. Sarovic. At the same time, I warn you that several times already they draw attention to me that you are required by the Rules of Procedure, when you are present in the O.R., to have your card in your MP's unit, which is not the case, which is why I am warning you the second time today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19418	You're very kind, Mr. Markovic. I accept your criticism. Unlike you, I'm going to show that I'm a reasonable man and that the fact that my card hasn't been inserted. Well, I forgot, so I'll put in a card.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19419	Excuse me, Mr. Sarovic, do you claim that the President of the Assembly is not reasonable?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19420	Please don't interrupt me. Mr. Markovic, have patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19421	Only the President of the Assembly has the right to interrupt the speaker. So I'm using basic law by the Rules of Procedure. Now I'm asking you, did I get it wrong, or did you say that the President of the Assembly is not reasonable?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19422	Mr. Markovic, did I get my word or didn't I get my word? Of course, I'll explain when I want to.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19423	I'm sorry, it's very important that I follow the Rules of Procedure, and since I've given you two warnings, in case you said that someone here is not reasonable from the MPs, in which case I'd have to give you a warning, so it's important that you explain to the MPs, because you have a duty to respect the dignity of this assembly. Be nice and tell me.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19424	That would really be my pleasure, Mr. Markovic. If you are not already able to maintain your concentration, then look at the record and see what I've said. So, I've come to my senses, but it really doesn't occur to me to explain what I've said. You find out after what I said, and you make a decision about whether or not you'll apply any sanctions.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19425	Then I apologize to you, Mr. Sarovic, I didn't realize you were calling for your mind. In that case, there's nothing from the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19426	Mr. Markovic, first of all, I would ask you to give me my time, and secondly, I would ask that you no longer violate your arrogant conduct, Rules of Procedure, so as not to make a circus out of this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19427	Be kind, your time is restored, and now quote me the member by which you answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19428	Mr. Markovic, will you stop interrupting me?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19429	Unfortunately, Mr. Sarovic, I cannot stop, because this is my obligation, under Article 27, to chair the National Assembly, and within that I seek to bring all MPs to the Rules of Procedure. I asked you, in the fourth time, to report to the Rules of Procedure, to say which member you are reporting for a word in the Rules of Procedure. Be nice and say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19430	Mr. Markovic, you have absolutely no right to bring MPs here to anything. It is yours to hold, in accordance with Article 27, meetings of the National Assembly, in accordance with the law, Rules of Procedure, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, etc. You don't have the authority to bring anyone anywhere. You're the first among the equals here, and you have to understand that. Secondly, if you think I'm going to lose my temper over your constant intrusion into my word, then you're wrong. Mr. Markovic, I have as much time as you want, so if you want, as far as I'm concerned, the next two days we can discuss the Rules of Procedure, there are enough members. What you're saying is that I'm reporting for the fourth time, I'll get back to you, if necessary, and 44 times, as long as I don't explain some of the Rules of Procedure to you, what they essentially mean. You may also seek the help of some professional services, but be assured that we will no longer allow that, for the sake of not answering twice or five times, you are in such a brutal way playing both MPs and the National Assembly. Therefore, Article 104 has been injured, which says that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Mr. Markovic, you don't respect him, because now you're trying to bid here and negotiate whether it was in 10.06, 10.08 or 10.10 minutes. What's a fact, it wasn't at 10.00 hours; 10.00 hours have passed. If you wanted to, you could admit it right away, to avoid this whole debate. You don't want to, but you want to make some MPs crazy here, so you can say "at the beginning of the day." You could freely interpret when that start of the day will be, but unfortunately, there is a provision of a member of 85 who is an imperative character and who says that the working time is from 10.00 to 1800 hours, with an hour's interruption. Then you have the right to say on the basis of your free will whether that break will be at 10.01 or at 11.00, 12.00, 17.00 or any time. It's just that you can't change what's in an imperative way. So this isn't something left at will for the president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19431	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19432	Mr. Markovic, you're interrupting me again. I warn you that at this time that is running all your interruptions count, as well as the time I needed to quote the members of the Rules of Procedure who have been broken.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19433	Mr. Sarovic, I've given you your time. That's what I've informed you about. Be nice, you've been talking for over three minutes. Thank you. Do you want to read the position again clearly, since the imperative norm certainly is not that the session of the National Assembly is held on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays from 10.00 to 18:00, with an end of one hour. So, once again, I remind you of Article 104, which says that the MPs are obliged to address each other with respect, and I ask you without throwing away during the presentation of one of the MPs. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19434	Mr. Markovicu, I said he was a injured member of 104, that he was a injured member of 27, and that he was injured by a member of 85. I didn't ask if the norm in article 85 was the attitude of the first imperative character or not. It's something that shows all the senselessness of what you're doing. You and your congregation majority can vote that it is a norm of a declarative character, one or another, but simply to anyone who has completed a year or two of law school, it is clear what it is. I accept that you are not a lawyer, but then don't convince us who we are, who we are, what a norm of character you are and whether you are obliged to respect or not. So, if you don't understand, it's no shame, look for help. The secretary of the assembly or the deputy secretary sits next to you, so let him explain to you what the norm is, whether you should or should not respect it, but don't explain to us who we are lawyers something that is truly pointless. Second, on my previous call, you interrupted me after three minutes. I remind you that I have the right to speak for three minutes, but in those three minutes, it does not include the time I need to quote members of the Rules of Procedure who, in my opinion, are injured. I quoted three members of the Rules of Procedure, and you took that time that was certainly longer than 20 or 30 seconds to include in these three minutes, or to refuse those three minutes, so I certainly had a lot more time to talk than you estimated and than there was a moment when you turned off the microphones. That's why you've done another breach of the Rules of Procedure again, and then you should have said you're taking away my word, but you should have told me why, not simply to behave so hard, to turn off the microphones and to think it's over. So you're the first among the equals. Don't let it happen to you, Mr. Markovic, that what happened to some previous presidents of the National Assembly, because this violence you're committing is equal to what they've been doing. Be careful what you do, so as not to repeat the fate of those who sat there before you, and I see you repeat the same mistakes they made.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19435	So, according to the same article 104, I'm giving an explanation. People's MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. Compared to that, after three minutes and 36 seconds, which obviously included a quote from, as you say, 20 seconds, I've informed you that I'm going to have to make sure that you have only three minutes at your disposal in the Rules of Procedure. Are you satisfied with the answer? The MP is now and physically no longer present. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: – Proposal for the Law on the Protector of the City (specificities) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs Snezana Lakićić-Stojačić, Milan Marković, Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, Marko Krstin, Milka Silajev, together Ljiljana Nestorović and Meko Omerović, Zoran Krasić, Vjerica Radeta, Nemanja Sarović, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Vojislav Milajić, Momir Marković, Milan Stević, Petar Jojic, Bozidar Koprivica and Ksenija Milivojevic and the Committee for Justice and Administration. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration, MP Marko Krstin withdrew the amendment to Article 18. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Under the name of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19436	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, the Democratic Party's parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to the bill and proposed that it be amended and read - a bill on the civil defender. The reasons are multiple. Since under one law and one decision in our legal system, two different names appear, I will remind you by the Law on Local Self-Government, Article 126, the title of civil defender appears, and according to the decision to establish the Ombudsman, which was adopted by the Vojvodina Assembly in 2003, we have the name ombudsman. Now this law introduces a third term, called the Protector of Citizens, an unknown term in our system, quite incomprehensible and we worry that in this case we will literally cause one confusion and the inability of the citizens of Serbia to understand what they are, whether they exist and what are the competences of the bodies that perform identical functions in relation to the area they deal with, different from the regions they cover, and are called in three completely different ways. I do not see the possibility of an adequate explanation that in Serbia, in a single legal system, one who deals with basic functions, as provided for by this law, at the level of the province is called the Ombudsman, based on the Law on Local Self-Government is called a civil defender, and based on this bill is called the Protector of Citizens. For this reason, the DS parliamentary group proposes to change the name and is called the Civil Defence Law Bill, as this assembly has decided in fact when the first institution of the civil defender was introduced by adopting the Law on Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19437	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19438	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, not entering the very essence of the amendment, just to say that it sounds very nice in the pure Serbian language of the Ombudsman, so I advocate it stays that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19439	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19440	This initial dilemma over the name of the bill was resolved by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has one chapter that begins with - republican authorities. There's a list of all state authorities. In the first place, the National Assembly, President of the Republic, Government of the Republic of Serbia. In this same chapter as the authorities of the State Administration of the Ministry, within them administrations, administrative organisations, inspectorates, secretariats, institutions, and directorates. All of these are state authorities, and as far as the judicial authorities are concerned, the special chapter speaks about courts and the public prosecutor's office, and then a special chapter on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, and there is a list of state authorities. The fact that it is determined somewhere to be ombudsed by some law is clearly contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The fact that at some level there is someone who protects citizens in a similar way to that Ombudsman, it is not in accordance with the Constitution, but I must say that this bill is not in line with the Constitution either. When could it be in accordance with the Constitution? Only that moment, if prescribed in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, is there a clear provision on the protection of citizens, the Ombudsman, the People's Tribunal or what you want it to be called. This name dilemma is irrational, because there is no constitutional basis for such a law at all. Apparently, the 1990 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides for the protection of citizens in a different way. There are, above all, constitutional norms on the prohibition of discrimination, constitutional norms on the obligation of every citizen and all authorities to adhere to the law, to respect the Constitution and the law, there is also a lawyer, there is the service of legal aid, there are other institutions, and there is a sort of control of both the administrative inspection and all inspection bodies. We don't have a constitutional basis for passing one of these laws for two reasons. The first is that the Constitution doesn't prescribe the protection of citizens. Second, as already stated in Article 1 of this proposal, the protection of citizens is a state body. He can't be a state organ. We cannot in the National Assembly give someone the property of a state authority unless there is authority in the Constitution. It's not a good amendment, and it's not a good wording of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19441	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19442	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, Mr. Minister, the Serbian Radical Party and its MPs in this high house have repeatedly pointed to the unconstitutional nature of the provisions of the law itself, of course, and the unconstitutional name of the law itself. In another member of the law, it cannot be said that the protection of citizens with their powers will move within the framework of the Constitution and on the basis of the Constitution, when it is contrary to the Constitution and contrary to the highest legal act. Such an institute is made up, invented and created here, and the question is who and how it will serve. We live in a country where all sorts of wonders are possible, in a country of political and legal absurdities, so this doesn't come much. In previous days, some politicians, I guess, want to take advantage of an opportunity where I'm not present, because then suddenly they gain the greatest courage to say the most difficult words and the worst possible insults, talked about how I lied about recalibrating some of the Socialist Party of Serbia's officials, used the words "dingy liars" and I don't know what. These frenzied thieves to say that it is true that I have not given sufficient accurate information and that is why I apologize to the citizens of Serbia. They took the money, but not two million marks, but five million marks. That's why I apologize to the citizens of Serbia, for not saying that the Democratic Party's power has kidnapped not two but five million marks. I'm ready, I repeat again, if this isn't true, this is what I've been saying, I'm not going to get away, and I'm not trying to get away, I'm going to go to jail voluntarily, because I deserve to go to jail if this isn't true. Let those crazy crooks shut up, let them let the prosecutor do his job and don't bother to respond and say it in a place where there's no way anyone can fight back. I know they're cowards, and that's how they learned to use and abuse power, but let's die now. In our country, it is possible that one television, all day long, bodies against the Serbian government, all day on BK TV, we listen to "the worst government", "the incompetent government", "just to change this incompetent criminal and corruption power", and then read in the paper to say to Bogoljub Karic "Kosutnica is the patriarch of Serbian democracy, you should unite with him". It's the country we live in. There's no telling who's the craziest. I just don't know what to say or what to make Serbian citizens think. Indeed, I do not know what the citizens of Serbia should think and what to say. And then he needs a citizen's protector? It's not a bad idea, I think he said Trebeshian, although at the very end of the line it doesn't matter who, "let's let the people go and see if the people who do this job are completely clean, perfectly normal," maybe I'm not, let the doctors say so, but let's find out about some others. It seems to me that one day someone is saying that someone is the worst in the world, he's a criminal, and the next day he says he's the most beautiful, not only is he the most beautiful, but he's also a patriarch. What can I tell you? What can I tell you when everyone knows I'm telling the truth about these millions of marks? You do, too, Mr. Minister. Here, if you're going to come out and say I'm not telling the truth, I'm going to say I'm resigning as a MP right now, just say it's not true what I just said, and you know it's true. I know you have official information in the Serbian government that it's true. I know they have all the services in this country and they know it's true. What's the problem? Is everyone afraid of the truth? Are they afraid to say a word to the saints because they are saints? The easiest thing to say is that it's those wacky liars or whatever. Maybe I'm crazy. Maybe I'm crazy. Maybe I am, I don't know everything. But I didn't steal five million marks, and they did. Let them look for this other one, and I ask to determine who stole all those five million marks. Here, I'm informing the D.A., so publicly, that I have some new knowledge and some new information, and where there are huge amounts and furniture, who took it, and one of these people is in Indiana policy today, he's not coming back to the country, he doesn't think of it, he's counting on the man that managed to secure the family from that money he took that way. Believe it or not, he was the director of Differents Road, among other things. It's a famous company called Ljubisha Buhe-Khumeta. She wasn't as busy in the roads as she was in kidnapping and racketeering on the way to whoever she was. Somebody throws something, it looks like she's right. But leave it to the D.A. to establish it, so he can decide whether to press charges or not to press charges. Anyway, I apologize for taking more time, Mr. President. I would only ask for more attention, more correctness and much more truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19443	Thank you. Since you spoke of the amendment, the word should now be given to Mr. Christin, who has five minutes left. Before Mr. Krstin, according to the Rules of Procedure, the government's representative, Minister Loncar, will be given the word. So I realized this was all in favor of the civil defender. Here you go, Mr. Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19444	Since some of the previous times, probably, given that the Minister was appointed, I would like to say that the debate on the protection of citizens is at stake. I am the Serbian government minister in charge of state administration and local self-government. The honourable MP who called me to answer the question of whether it is true, as a very good lawyer, knows that it is in the jurisdiction of one other body - the public prosecutor's office and that the government, in this regard, is completely separate from the judicial authority. Therefore, the answer to this question should be received from the competent authority, which is the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19445	Thank you, Mr. Lonchar. The word has Mr. People's MP Marko Krstin following the amendment of Mrs. Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19446	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, we have an amendment that, based on its basis, wants to replace the name of the law, instead of "protector" to be the name "defister". Both are our words. The promoter has defined himself for this word, and I have no reason to argue. As for the inauguration to call him an Ombudsman, that's not our word. That word is very difficult to say, as many of our citizens do. I would suggest we stay at our word. As for the legal basis for the adoption of the law, which is disputed here with a certain argument, I would like to make a slightly different argument, based on the fact that the Constitution does not know the institution of the protection of citizens is not an argument that indicates that we cannot introduce it by law, simply because there are other institutions, state bodies, such as judges for violations, such as the public defender, etc. which are not present in the Constitution, and in accordance with the authority of the national authorities, or the Assembly to determine the type and composition of its bodies, exist and have been in place in our legal system for 50 years. So I don't think they could use it, as a constitutional and legal argument, that the protection of citizens cannot be introduced, that it is not explicitly stated in the Constitution. Secondly, in the basic principles of the Constitution, there is also a principle according to which what is not forbidden is allowed. So, the Assembly could form organs that are needed, especially in this important area, such as the protection of human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19447	Thank you, Mr. Christin. According to the same amendment, MP Natasa Jovanovic appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19448	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, colleague Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović, is submitting this amendment to Article 1. The bill and seeking to change the name of the public defender to the civil defender, she wanted, at least said in principle in the debate of this law, to comply with the Law on Local Self-Government. We Serbian radicals, when we passed such a law on local self-government, when we passed an omnibus law that, in breach of the existing constitution, brought a higher degree of jurisdiction to the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, said that actually the establishment of one such, allegedly independent body and body, was an ordinary farce, which proved to be. I'll tell you about the case of the city I live in. So, her intention was to comply with the name of the Law on Local Self-Government, and the City of Kragujevac Assembly immediately after the constitution, in fact three months after the start of work in the new assembly, made a proposal for a city civil defender. He was elected from the order of non-partisan and unknown officials in our city, already being the former secretary of the Kragujevac City Assembly, which served from 1996 to 2000, when you were all in power together - the SPO, the Democratic Party and everything then called "Together" in our city. When he was elected, I said it was a man who, not impartial, was professional in doing his job, but showed quite the opposite. Even in 1998, as the secretary of the city's assembly, abuse of its position, and in addition, in a synchronised political action with Stevanovic, who was then president of the City Assembly, insisted that Mr Tomislav Nikolic, then a committee member in the Kragujevac City Assembly, be removed from the session. Now the Kragujevci have found themselves in a situation, so impoverished, saddened, with many problems, disputes that they have from property and work relations, because they are being threatened by layoffs, because of various usurpations, that they are complaining to this man, who has shown his "democratic" nature very nicely while he was the secretary of the Assembly. Then, doing business under his jurisdiction, which the Law on Local Self-Government gave him, and it is called the city's civil defender, reportedly followed complaints from citizens and reports that he was handling these matters. The same case will be here. He was elected, however, by the Assembly of the City of Kragujevac, which here is Mrs Radete's proposal in the amendment to Article 4, to be done by the National Assembly when it comes to the protection of citizens. But he's also as incompetent as he is, but even if he's the most capable, most professional, he's well admitted and said he can't go any further than that, but to let the public know that his hands are tied. As it comes from the authorities of the city administration, which is really in very bad shape, because the heads of administration are appointed by the mayor and the governing structure, the staff who do not meet to run such responsible jobs, through companies that are under the authority of the City Assembly, through cases that are the most endangered social category, he says well - they can't do anything about it, because my hands are tied. I can only conclude that the city administration is not doing its job, that businesses are not doing their job, and it is the same, which was chosen from that political structure on the proposal of Stevanovic and the ruling structure. Then citizens play cats and mice, spin around in circles, no help, no protection. Therefore, the amendments we have tabled to this bill on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group are an attempt to better specify the jurisdiction of citizens' protectors, namely what counterpart Ruzdic suggests, the defender. I'm telling you in advance, and that's what we told you when the debate was in principle, it's not going to be anything from that job. Those who have been robbed, recruited, like Dragomir Tomic, whom Mr. Vukic had just spoken of, those who are in the worst possible way usurped in this country, will have no one to complain about as long as this is the way of rule and as long as there are such bandits who can do whatever they want and no one stands in their way. They do so, the ossions are also powerful, whether they are known or at the level of local self-government or at the republican level. Citizens in this country have no one to protect.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19449	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. Does any other MPs want to talk about this amendment? Here's a word from MP Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19450	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Ruzdic's amendment intends to introduce consistency into our legal system. We can think well about the Law of Local Self-Government, and we can think ill. The Democratic Party has had major objections to the law, but that law is part of our legal order, it is in force. In this law, the name ombudsman is a figure of speech, and that foreign term has become recognizable to the Institute and to the institution that we will talk about and what we are talking about today. So it's called a civil defender. Perhaps this law should have proposed amendments and amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government, so that these terms should be equally bad, that in one legal system the same things should be called different names. It produces in the second, third, or I don't know what step, legal uncertainty. Why is this particularly important in Serbia? It is important because, unfortunately, political circles have brought down to legal life an incredible manner of false accusation. There are political forces in Serbia whose lies represent a political instrument, are political doctrine. There are political forces in Serbia whose leaders are praised for being manipulators. There are political forces in Serbia whose leaders say they are proud of lying, that they are proud of their influence on public opinion by political manipulation, that they are more proud of it than the highest scientific titles they have ever acquired. Therefore, because of the need to lead order into our legal order, because of the need to bring order into our public life, because of the need to eradicate the lie, the quorum, as a political manner that pollutes our policy and our society, it would be good for the parliamentary majority, and the Democratic Party, by supporting this amendment, to contribute. So it would be necessary to introduce order in this termological sphere and to have the same names for the same institutes that we edit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19451	Thank you. (Alexander Vukic, from the place: Replica. Why the replica? Be kind, there is no mention of any parliamentary group, no party. I apologize if anyone recognized Mr Branislav Ivkovic from this speech. I'm not, so there's no reason for replication. Be kind enough to continue, I must clearly stick to the Rules of Procedure. Anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarian Milan Markovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Ms. Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić came to the floor, and then the National MP, Aleksandar Vukic. Here you go, Mrs. Stojcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19452	Although I am speaking by amendment to Article 1, I would firstly like to point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which, Mr. President, you have already done several times during this session, respecting Mr. Sarovic's right to address the Assembly whenever he wants to. You are obliged not to allow him to speak unless he has inserted a parliamentary card into his seat, as Article 98 says the MP is obliged to identify himself when entering the Assembly. He took advantage of the fact that you did not properly manage this session and allowed it to address the MPs several times. Furthermore, Mr. Vukic can also speak behind a pay phone whatever he wants, but you are obliged by the Rules of Procedure to warn him that he must speak according to what is on the agenda, or the amendment that we are discussing at the session that is under way. So, Mr. President, you've broken the Rules of Procedure twice. People's MPs, if they're capable enough, can use the fact that they're talking about what they want. They can take advantage of the fact and they should use the fact that you are giving a word and unless they are registered as present at the session of parliament, but you are obliged to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and Article 98 and Article 101, which you have already broken several times during the session. I'm going back to the amendment now.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19453	Mrs Stojačić, you will see in the stenogram, there is no reason to debate – and in the case of the first MP, I have clearly warned that he has violated the Rules of Procedure and received a warning, it is one of the two warnings he has received. So that's how you handle the session. When it comes to the second one, you will also see that at the end of the exhibition, I once again asked if all this was about the case of the amendment and that it was actually too broad an argument. Thank you for understanding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19454	You may give a warning, but you cannot give a word to an MP who is not registered to attend the session. You are not the one who is authorized to assess at any time whether someone in parliament is present or not and whether someone has spoken and said certain offensive things or not, or whether or not they were referring to someone present in this room. The amendment to Article 1 was submitted by the DS parliamentary group in order to specify the work of a civil representative, i.e. the protection of citizens, in the desire that the work of a civil representative also apply to the judiciary. So we propose "controlling the work of the state administration authority" to add the words "and the judicial administration". I will remind you that, in this law, the actual civil defender has the opportunity to respond only to those complaints or to those questions in which the complainant has exhausted all his legal resources, with one exception, and that is, if the complainant were to suffer irreparable damage in a specific case. Given that we know which country we live in, since we know how long court proceedings are going on, because we know that abuse in court proceedings can be done and done very often by inaction, non-announcement, non-resistance, lack of submission and various other actions that prevent the proper protection of Serbian citizens, we believe that a civil representative would have an obligation, i.e. to have certain powers in control, to intervene in the complaints of citizens and to the work of the authorities of the judicial administration. In this regard, the DS believes it is necessary to adopt this amendment and we hope that the minister, but also MPs, will insert the words "judicial administration" into Article 1 of the Law on the Protector of Citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19455	Thank you, Mrs. Stojtice. The People's Messenger Aleksandar Vucic has the word, and the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19456	I'm looking for a right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19457	I'm sorry, Mrs. Stojacic, you said that in his presentation, Mr. Vukic spoke offensively, right, I get it? So, in that sense, by the way, I should have warned him. On that basis, you have the right to a replica under Article 101.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19458	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I don't mind that every time people in the DS have no argument, they say: wave lies, liars, like this or like that. I just have to tell them, when it comes to one thing is quite certain, and the citizens of Serbia know it: if it could be controlled in that way by a lie and banned in public life and politics, the DS would have long lost reason to exist. I'll remind you of just a few examples. There was a copy of the man who showed us the cards from Bodrum, here she came back to Belgrade, she was in the Assembly, he pulled them out in front of the citizens for days, and in the end he said, "I'm sorry, I lied." He was the one who stole millions of dollars, who said -- this is what my dad gave me, so they loaned me money, Dad and Mom, so the money loaned me the bank, so eventually he borrowed Janjusevic, so now he gave it back or didn't pay it back, and I don't know what it was. That's what the party says, a ficus costs 1,000 dinars, and it gets it for 45,000 dinars and robs a case of citizens of Serbia for 18m euros at only one airport. But I don't want to spread this topic. In your statement you wrote, if Mr. Vukic had the courage to sign it at all - yes, I signed it myself. Unlike your leaders, I haven't been followed by bodyguards, I've come to the D.A.'s office myself and handed over everything I had, but here I am now informing you, I've come up with new information, and I'd like the prosecutor to call me, and if he doesn't, I'll deliver it in writing supplementing what I've already delivered. But I'm willing to do one simple thing and let's finish this story, make it easier, make it simple. If I'm lying, I'm going to jail, and if you're lying, when you say you didn't racket and you didn't take millions of marks from Dragomir Tomic, you're going to jail. That's what law would do. The only thing that scares me is that the laws change according to political need. The government, when it fits one, one day Karic can be a criminal, the other day Karic tells them that Kostunica is a patriarch, so suddenly he loves himself very much, you all love each other. If you have a nice and wonderful Nenad Canak, Jožef Kasa, Karic I can think of what it would look like if you all got together. Anyway, I'm not asking anything of you. You don't have to do it anymore because you've repeated it a hundred times -- wave you, those liars, but I only ask you to have enough patience and courage to wait for the prosecutor to let us know whether this is true or not. If this isn't true, I'm done with freedom, then I have a good time to do potatoes in Padinska Skela, if I'm lucky, and if I don't go to Pojarvac or Mitrovica, and if that's true, then some of yours will have to end up in more serious prison facilities because they robbed Serbian citizens because they've been doing racketeering, because if you want the crime to be an extortion, according to Article 180 of century 2 and 3. I am convinced that justice will be served, and Serbian citizens want justice very much. They also want fair elections. Serbian citizens, when we have a competition in Tower 25, want no blackmail, no threats coming, no Pajtic comes to Russia and says - I will give you 20 million if you vote for us, and if you vote for radicals you won't get 1,000 euros to build infrastructure or anything else. Last night he said that, counting on the absence of members of the national minorities of Serbian radicals. As you can see, there is. That's why you'll see already in The Tower who are the wacko liars or not, because people can recognize them and share the money of Serbian citizens and the citizens of Vojvodina. (President: five minutes. I'm finishing up, Mr. President. What ordinary citizens have earned, the money is given to individual party officials and blackmailing the people they vote for. People want to change. They've had enough of the "blowing liars" insult. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, There's no big philosophy. I'll take it if that's not true, I'll go right now. But, for God's sake, not you personally, Mrs. Lakicevic, but some of you will have to count on it. Law and justice must equally apply to all, and our most important task is to defeat corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19459	Thank you. Here you go, by Article 101 of the Second Replication, here you go, Mr Petrovic. Just a second, excuse me. So after giving you the words under Rule 101(2), Mr Sarovic reported to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic. Excuse me, Mr. Petrovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19460	You have injured the Rules of Procedure, for you are obliged to give the speakers a word in the order in which they have spoken. So, article 101 regulates the right to replication and says when anyone can answer, but you can't in any way benefit from this or that parliamentary group. The fact that you're in some silent and quiet coalition with DS is your problem, Mr. Markovic, but you're obliged to watch and monitor who comes forward. During the presentation of Mrs. Lakicevic-Stojačić, when she mentioned me, I answered the line and you were obliged to give it to Alexander Vukić after you gave the word to him, the word you gave to me, and then to give it to whoever you wanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19461	Mr. Sarovic, Article 101. The Rules of Procedure clearly state, in the third position, that the decision in the cases referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article shall be made by the President of the National Assembly. And before that, in Article 1, he says - if the MP in his presentation at the National Assembly is offended about the MP from another parliamentary group, citing his name and name or function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation refers shall have the right to replication. Mrs Stojačić did not make an offensive statement about MP Nemanja Sarovic, but about MP Predrag Markovic, who did not act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, as president of the Assembly, and prevented a speaker who had not inserted the card from getting his word in at all, and I had no basis for giving you the replica. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Lakicevic-Stojačić first appeared, please. In the meantime, I'm asking if you're satisfied with the answer. You didn't? You don't know? Here you go, Mrs. Stojcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19462	Mr. President, I have not spoken in a single sentence, and I have not made an offensive statement about you. I was just advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. If you feel hurt or offended, it's your personal business. I have called on the members of the Rules of Procedure, and I have never delivered a word of ugly opinion or in any way helped the MPs to think that I made any insult against the name or function of the president of the National Assembly or MP Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19463	Thank you, we understood each other, I was simply making it clear that every kind of objection applied to MP Predrag Markovic, as president of the Assembly, and that it did not refer to Nemanja Sarovic, so I did not have the basis to give the replica, and that is why it is the abuse of the Rules of Procedure and that is your third warning. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19464	Mr. Markovic, I really don't understand who this third warning is right now. Is this a warning to Mrs. Lakicevic-Stojacic or is she the one who abused the Rules of Procedure. Please, these are very heavy accusations. Please don't play with those things. So if you're already saying that someone's abusing the Rules of Procedure, then tell them specifically who's doing it. You, of course, can make a decision in accordance with Article 101 whether someone has the right or not to have a replica, and if you think it is not offensive that Mrs Lakicevic-Stojačić said that I hurt the Rules of Procedure, then it only speaks about you and your understanding and the Rules of Procedure and the work of the National Assembly. You, being brutally and daily in violation of the Rules of Procedure, are probably no longer offended. You'll allow some of us to continue to find that offensive. So, I respect this Rules of Procedure, and I demand that you do the same. Mrs. Lakicevic-Stojačić went out for a pay phone, she clearly said my name and last name and said I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Now, Mr. Markovic, Article 102 says no one is allowed to approach the speaker until the president of the National Assembly allows it. Article 2 says no one can speak at a session of the National Assembly before asking and receiving a word from the president of the National Assembly, etc. So, from these provisions, it should be clear to you that the only place from which you can speak is this particular pay phone, and so I tell you one more time, don't ask me to get out of the seat, from the bench, from the hallway or from anywhere else, whether I'm satisfied with your explanations or not. The only place I can explain it from is this pay phone. This, among other things, tells you Article 103(3), where it says that during the speech of the MPs or other participants, you are not allowed to throw away, or interfere with speakers in any other way, as well as any other procedure that endangers freedom of speech. So don't ask me to break the Rules of Procedure and speak from somewhere else that isn't this pay phone. The rules of the Rules of Procedure to which Mrs Lakicevic-Stojacic was invited say the MP is obliged to identify himself when entering the hall. I identified myself on my way into the O.R. and then pulled my card. There is no provision by the Rules of Procedure which obliges me to keep my card in the MPial unit during the work of the National Assembly. You've abolished the quorum yourself. This is what you wanted at the beginning of the working day to identify a number of MPs, and after that there is no obligation, I have one obligation if I want to vote. These provisions of Articles 119 and 120, i.e. from 115 to 121, have some other meaning. These are the provisions that regulate the vote in a precise way, precisely because of the thefts that the DS has been doing here. These provisions are due to Thessaloniki, Bodrum, all the other things you've done. So this has nothing to do with, these provisions with work at the session, opening, participation, etc. No provision of the Rules of Procedure obliges me to keep that card in the parliamentary unit during the working day, and you, Mr Markovic, should anyone in your opinion abuse the Rules of Procedure, violate it, etc., you shall choose and act as your Rules of Procedure. I call upon you, apply it, here, make warnings, take away your word, do whatever you want, it is yours to apply this Rules of Procedure. (President: Time. How are you going to do that? I hope we get a chance to figure that out and evaluate it. We've long submitted an initiative for your shift. If you did your job so well, you should have let us discuss it. You caved in, you got scared of that debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19465	Thank you. So the warning was about you, of course. Here you go, Mr. Petrovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19466	Mr. President, as far as the coalition is concerned, I was convinced, and I'm still convinced that there is a silent alliance between the ruling coalition and the Radical Party, and now here we're getting some other information. Of course that's not true. The DS is an opposition to the government of the Republic of Serbia, and what is of course seen from what the DS is doing. Of course we support those laws that we believe will help Serbia get as close to the EU as possible. Unfortunately, such laws are smaller, but it's not a subject. It would be tragic if it wasn't comical. If a man were to take himself seriously towards all the terrible things that come out of this booth in other places, and if he had no clear awareness that it was political manipulation, then it would be a matter of serious debate. If what I'm saying were true, we've had confirmation over the last week. Last week, the doctrine of functioning of a large opposition or not party in this House in the past 13 or 15 years has been very clear, as long as this party exists. So, the person by which this party is recognizable, the person at the head of this party, is completely unequivocal and clear, explaining the details, has stated that manipulation is the party's most important political tool. Manipulation means, translated into Serbian -- a lie. So a lie is a basic political tool used to win Serbia's citizens over one or another political idea for one or another political action. We've had it all ten years ago. If that was the time of the subject, we wouldn't be here talking about it right now. Unfortunately, I must conclude that such political manners continue. This should be eradicated from our political life, because it is harmful for citizens, it is harmful for political relations in Serbia, it pollutes the political environment and makes it impossible for Serbia to cope with the problems it has, as strongly as it could happen. What Mr. Vukic was saying here today is completely in the policy manner of 12 or 13 years of people who, in their political manner, with their political goals and their political methods, fully fit what the first man of this political organisation, as his Dick and pride, presented last week, once again, saying that the ability to manipulate is more proud of the ability to acquire the most scientific titles.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19467	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19468	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, as far as Serbian radicals are concerned, they are the only opposition political group here, and in Serbia, apparently, the only opposition political party, I am talking about big parties and serious ones, not those outside the parliament. Well, DS voted for three-quarters of the law in this assembly, maybe more. The SRS isn't. You have almost the same responsibility, if not greater because of everything you've done before, than what the parties in power have today, from the DSS, the SPS and I don't know which one. When you talk about coalitions, let's go to a bar, people know each other, so there's some honest ones from this party or that party, and then different coalitions come together, like in Surdulica or some other places. You at the level of the Vojvodina rule in coalition with Bogoljub Karic, Nenad Canka, Joseph Kass. They're your coalition partners. Mr Petrovic, how much of the state's money has gone to those who sing "fantastic" from a pair of people and citizens of Serbia? Who asked that in the state? Did you wonder if it was moral to go to such a coalition? Is it moral for you to go to the coalition with Nenado Chanka? Is it moral with Joseph Cass? Just don't talk to me about minorities. I'm not talking about minorities. I'm talking about how he's involved in corruption. You're talking about coalitions, and tomorrow you're going to go to the coalition with everyone to try to beat the Serbian radicals. You're talking about manipulation. Vojislav Seselj and what he is saying, when he said something against whoever was in power then, and that it is true and it is not, man will at any time defend Serbia and watch what those who are against it say to him. Of course, he'll insult those who arrest his men, those who want to destroy his party, take his rooms, ban the party, etc., because that's why he defends the political organisation. Anyway, you didn't listen very carefully, so you might want to study it a little bit better. You may have read Ljiljana Smajlović and others who have played very smart in various newspapers, but don't read it, but look, you have something to learn. As for this story where you said it was the same manipulation or lie, Mr. Petrovic, I'm not lying, I'm telling the truth when I was talking about the racketeering of Dragomir Tomic. I didn't make it up, it's been heard for a year and two years before that. The problem is, no one had the courage to start it, to say it. It is not for a serious debate in parliament, it is for the work of the prosecution, investigative authorities and courts in this country. So I'm telling you one more time, don't worry, I don't want it to be left with our sympathies, who, fortunately, are significantly more trusted by me and your sympathies, who, fortunately, are significantly less trusted by you. No, I want it investigated to the end, the truth to be complete, to get a judicial verdict against those who participated in the racketeering, who were extorting, one of the most serious crimes. If you don't get that verdict, I repeat, I'm going to jail. For a lie or a lie you answer politically, the people will recognize, they won't give you trust, but I'm ready for that lie, because it would be, because the big thing I'm talking about, if it were true, it would be a dangerous thing and I can't just talk about it, I'm ready to go behind bars. Mr. Petrovic, several of your men will have to go behind bars to prove it's true. (President: Time.) ) Not because we want to sanctify anyone for persecution or for what I don't know, but because in Serbia there has to be a rule of law, a rule of law, because there has to be legal certainty, because people's assets have to be protected and people want to live in a normal country. To live in a normal country, it's true, once and for all, we have to beat Bodrum, and Thessaloniki, and racketeering, and kidnapping and robbery with ficuses and spoons at the airport. This is what is most important for Serbian citizens at the moment. It's not far, 12 days. (President: Time.) ) You had authority in The Tower, until recently, until these introduced temporary measures and set them all up, although all of them will not have three councilors, those from the Serbian government. But now I'm telling you, you'll have these election results and you'll see. Then it will be clear to you what the people think and the racketeering and the kidnappings, whether we wave liars or not, and soon thereafter we expect the verdict to come. It will be the verdict of one time, the time of abduction, the racketeering, the time that represents a black hole in Serbia's history and the time I'm sure it will never come back.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19469	Otherwise, don't convince us where you are in the coalition. The SRS and DS are both in Surdulica and Negotin against the SPS. National MP Dusan Petrovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19470	Mr. Vice President, it's getting contagious. As you associate with the uninformed, you are in a political alliance with the uninformed, so you too become uninformed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19471	Mr. Petrovic, I was in Surdulica the day before yesterday, so I'm very precise...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19472	There's no DS in the coalition anywhere with the SRS. It's a political decision of the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19473	I'm very specific, in Surdulica you're in the coalition with the SRS and you've replaced all the socialists who were there.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19474	All those in some parliamentary alliance have been expelled from the DS, but I will gladly give you, Mr. Angelkovic, all the notices you need to complete the picture of political life in Serbia, so I stand at your disposal when you have time. But that's not the point now. The subject is the charges brought from this pay phone. You, Mr. Vukic, have so far filed some criminal charges, so you've convinced the public that this is an incredible crime, so you've been wearing one folder for ten days, I don't remember what color, in Belgrade, and you've been saying that a terrible crime has been committed, that it will be proven, that many will go to prison, as you're saying now, is all the same. Of course, it turns out that nothing is true, as probably not true, or I'm sure it's not exactly what you're talking about right now. You've brought up a few subjects here, and I can't do it again, and I can't remember what it was all about, all sorts of abuses, alleged thefts. There is no verdict and everything you are saying is precisely the element of your political manner, which you are trying to deceive the citizens of Serbia, just as your party's first personality has explained that it has done for the past 10 years, putting manipulation on the throne of all political skills. You're trying to win that skill, that's your legitimate right, Mr. Wolf. I think it's bad, but you as an experienced politician choose your own way of fighting for the promotion of your ideas and for the acquisition of your political allies. We'll see who gets more. There have been no elections so far that things have ended the way you have said, but more or less how, in the nature of things, Serbian citizens have expressed their political will and because of that you were opposition, you are now the opposition, except for that unfortunate time when you helped the Socialists and Slobodan Milosevic in one difficult and evil time for Serbia, and I think it is a black hole, you helped him manage this unfortunate country. To the very end, if memory serves me well, you have just said that you will withdraw from politics if Mr Tomislav Nikolic does not win the presidential election. You did not withdraw from politics, Mr Tomislav Nikolic did not win the election, so I think your promises from the assembly speaker should be taken exactly in the spirit of the manner I am talking about here, which is the manner of political manipulation, as top and supreme political skills.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19475	Mr. Petrovich, we can go to Surdulica together. It is true that you have disbanded the Municipal Committee, but four council members support the ruling coalition headed by the SRS. That's the facts. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19476	Mr. Angelkovic, don't interfere.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19477	Mr. Vucic, I wouldn't interfere if your president hadn't driven 40 people out just because they voted for the SPS in Surdulica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19478	Mr. Angelkovic, don't interfere when the big fish fight leads. Get out of the way.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19479	The large fish, the head of the SRS municipality in Surdulica, along with the Democrats, expelled 40 people who voted for the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19480	Yeah, they just wanted to arrest radicals and everyone else because they thought otherwise. I don't want to talk to you about it. You're not my theme. Give me this time back, Mr. Angelkovic, for taking away my free.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19481	You spoke six minutes ago for three, so there's no need to worry, I won't deny you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19482	Now you see what Mr. Petrovic is like. You said I said I'd pull out of this booth if Tom Nikolic didn't win. I never said that from this pay phone. So, let me tell you that you're a waver liar, what you're using, I won't. I'm a decent man, and I can't think of telling you that. If you find that stenogram I'd be very happy, read it to me and tell me that's what I am, and I won't tell you. There's one text in "Balkan" where they said so, and when you read the text you'll see it's not true because it refers to the first round of the election. The text makes that clear, and in the first election round, Toma Nikolic won, and it has nothing to do with the assembly speaker, but it already has to do with my interview on local elections. I've already discussed this and warned you to read the text of your party colleague, Mr. Gilas. Then he read the text. So read it a little bit, take a look. Yeah, it's been awfully hard for me, I admit it. I think Serbia has lost a lot because of the fact that Boris Tadic was elected president. Not because I personally care so much, it is and personally, Tomislav Nikolic is both a friend and a man I have learned so much from, but this has to do with Serbia. I don't think Serbia's got anything but a man who's gonna take water polo, handballers, volleyball players, basketball players, singers, singers and nothing else. I don't want to talk about it any further. I'm not talking about the president of Serbia. You're talking about me wearing a folder and talking about terrible crimes. I filed a criminal report, Mr. Petrovic, but I haven't received an answer from the prosecution yet. They didn't send me to be denied criminal charges. Do you know why? Because they're waiting to see how things are going to develop and who's going to win the next election. That's our problem, I suppose, together with our prosecutions. A lot of them don't work by law. Some of them were able to say that Natasa Kandic did not want to cause public order and peace to be disrupted with such lies. If I lied, I disturbed public order and peace, spread false news, I'm guilty if this isn't a lie to racketeer Dragomir Tomic, and I'm going to go to court where I'm going to say I'm guilty, and you accuse me of the highest sentence I've ever had because I deserve it. What's wrong with you, man? I admit in advance if I'm wrong. You know I'm telling the truth, everyone in Serbia knows, and everyone in all parties knows it's true. You're talking about how abuses aren't proven. What are you talking about? Jagodina municipality President Dragan Markovic buys a tourist cart for 6,900 euros, and in Belgrade, Adi gypsies, the exact same 150,000-euro cart. I'm asking you what's the problem, 22 to one. Is the problem in democracy or European integration? When you talk about coalitions, we're not in a coalition today with anyone. We're in opposition, and we're proud of it. By force to take power we will not, the people have given us the greatest trust and we will see how it will be in the next election. Maybe you'll have most of the DSS, with G17 plus, with Karic. I hope you won't, because it's good that the citizens of Serbia see this today, that those who are against each other view Kostunica as the patriarch of Serbian politics, and the day before that say he is a criminal and his government is criminal. It's good that when you fight this much, tomorrow you say that your coalition is the most normal and the most natural. I don't mind, that's what I'm saying, but that's exactly why a political verdict will come to you, and then I'm sure, when the competent judicial authorities are independent of their work and their functioning, and the prosecutions are independent, because that's how it is under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that then these other judicial verdicts will come to which criminals will be sentenced to long-standing prison sentences.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19483	Mr. Petrovic, according to the Rules of Procedure or what? Let's try to finish, please, Mr. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19484	What's a fact is that there's no law enforcement, and I don't see that there's a first-degree decision on all the things that were talked about. I think it's an important thing and I really don't want to repeat everything I said for the third or fourth time. It was not my intention to change the political manner that is in force somewhere, nor will this political manner change the way my party and I observe and experience politics. Serbian citizens, when the time comes, and I hope that time will come very soon, that it is at the door, will decide who will manage Serbia. In any case, the way it is now managed by Serbia is not good.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19485	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19486	I'd keep talking about this bill. Of course, I object to the point of view of Article 1. The bill of law is inserted into the words "judgmental administration." Why? The minister of justice was barely elected to do so. In a system of division of power, the judicial authority has some specific control of first-degree, second-degree bodies, etc. The executive power cannot interfere with the judicial authority. The legislative authority cannot interfere with the judiciary. Not even a third could interfere with the judiciary, not even the control of the court's administration. The question of whether a civil protection officer can engage and consider those issues that are subject to a court case can, because it is not explicitly forbidden to him, but it is disabled by the control of the court, which is perfectly normal. How can a court be independent and independent if it can be controlled by a civil defender? The amendment is illogical, and it is contrary to the Constitution. It has been said here that even the Republic public defender is not a constitutional category, so there is. But, the attorney general, in the end, wouldn't have to exist, under our constitution, wouldn't have to exist under the law, because what he's doing could be done by another state body. That could be done by the Treasury. This could be done by the Republic of Serbia Property Directorate. Why? The Republic's public defender represents the state. He's a power of attorney in some disputes. He also represents when it comes to work dispute. The Ministry can do the same. What's characteristic of state authorities is that the authority the state has entrusted to one of its authorities. It's similar to a criminal judge. We don't have to have a judge in the justice system. First-degree misdemeanor procedures can also be conducted by the ministries. We have a variety of ministries that conduct a misdemeanor procedure. If there is an analogy that there is no Republican public defender in the Constitution, there is no constitutional or court for violations, and they exist in practice based on the fact that there is some analogy with the protection of citizens, then it is wrong. All those state authorities that are somehow singled out, such as the court, for example, are said to be a independent and independent state body. Article 1 says the public defender is an independent state body, and there is not even one far more important finding that he is an independent state body. When you look at what's in his jurisdiction, what he's doing, it's said "to protect the rights of citizens". What right of citizens? All we can essentially say is that it belongs to the Corps of Freedom, the rights and duties of a man and a citizen. Is that it? It is further said that it controls the work of the government's authority. How can he control the work of the government's authority? There's a basic problem. He can only ask for some notices, some data, etc., but to enter the organ and control the organ that's impossible. This shall belong to the relevant competent national authority provided for in the Constitution to exist. It is further said that the body in charge of the legal protection of property rights is controlled, that is the defence attorney and lower, etc., and is also said to protect the interest of the Republic of Serbia and other bodies and organisations, businesses and institutions entrusted with public authority. When all this is put into the context of the Constitution, the constitutional basis does not exist. Someone will say that by adopting the Constitutional Charter, we have made a commitment that international law is an integral part of our internal legal order, by the system of everything that has been ratified by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and then the state union, and then the Republic of Serbia, and it no longer matters, what has been taken over as an obligation, and for that there is no need for a constitutional basis, but by the very act of ratification of an agreement, a legal basis has been created that we have to install it. In the relevant international convention, which since 1976 regulates human rights, civil liberties and political freedoms in Europe, etc., there is no clear view that this must be done as proposed by this bill. So, again, in order to have an ombudsman, in order to have something, to have an institution with these powers, it must emerge from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Such a provision does not exist in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This is a legally impossible job. Just to remind you that there was one statement about the dispute whether this is constitutional or not, so it's probably less unconstitutional than the unconstitutional nature of the National Office. The People's Office is something that's contrary to the Constitution. In the Constitution, where the legal position of the President of the Republic is regulated and where it is said to be formed, the organisation of its service shall be governed, above all, by those tasks carried out by the President of the Republic, which shall be in five or six points of the previous member. But building a People's Office and yet building a branched network across the territory of the Republic of Serbia, is at the very least an abuse of the Constitution. Then the government in the budget approves funds for the People's Office. Well, then it's a coalition. So we don't have a constitutional basis for this bill. Now, however you start with the bidding that powers would be, and even if by any chance the Constitution provides for an ombudsman, you couldn't put these powers in this way. He can't control the work. In this environment, some ombudsmen and even international people from the international community, who are following it, such as the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, have appeared for a long time the Republika Srpska and MH Federations, etc. I remind you that the Ombudsman there is foreseen by the Dayton Agreement and those contributions in which the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina is written. It is specified in which part he can act: to report to him citizens, to indicate some injury, to ask the authorities for appropriate information, to write a recommendation, to publicly report whether or not it is an injury, to submit reports on the state of human rights, such as Novicki, very often, reports the state of human rights in Kosovo and Metohija, but no one reads those reports. You could see that yourself. Nobody cares what he wrote. So I express the position of the Serbian Radical Party: we will not vote in favour of this amendment. But that amendment does not correct Article 1 because it is impossible for that member to be fixed. Even if the judicial administration is involved, then the oversight of the work of the judicial administration is done by the Ministry of Justice. The ministry has barely been able to see how they are being seduced, how much they are waiting, etc. Here's the end. Why is this necessary next to the ministry? That it was written to control the ministry, somehow. But the amendment says it controls the work of the judiciary. That's impossible. It can't exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19487	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Anyone else want a word with the Rules of Procedure? The word has Snježana Lakicevic-Stojačić, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19488	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, but also by article 100 in relation to Mr Krasic's presentation, which, by who knows which way, the MPs of the SRS, addressing the peoples and citizens of Serbia, show that they do not know the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia well enough to know the constitutional basis when something is established, that they do not know the constitutional basis well enough about many issues when they speak of them. So in order to explain to the MPs of the SRS on which and on what basis the National Office was formed, I will take the opportunity to tell Mr Krasic that the National Office of the President of the Republic of Serbia was founded by the decision made by the President of the Republic of Serbia, which was published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". On the basis of your constitutional authority referred to in Article 83, you may write, paragraph 1 point 11. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which, among other things, is quoted as saying, "The President of the Republic educates professional and other services to carry out operations under his jurisdiction". In Article 88. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, again, is said to be "The President of the Republic is responsible for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia", because they, according to the Constitution, are elected by Article 86(1). The President of the Republic is the only directly elected representative of the citizens in the current electoral system in Serbia. Therefore, in the context of the text of the oath, Article 86(5). The constitution; Mr. Sarovic, again you prove, first, that you are violating the Rules of Procedure, the President does not warn you, and secondly you show that you do not know what the electoral system is in force in the Republic of Serbia under the Law on election of MPs. If I get a chance, some other way around, I'll educate you on that law. Therefore, in the context of the text of the oath, in Article 86(5), paragraph 5. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is prescribed that the President of the Republic swears that all of its forces will commit to the achievement of human and civil freedoms and rights, respect and defence of the Constitution and law, the preservation of peace and prosperity of all citizens of Serbia. Finally, the Constitution prescribes: "The citizen has the right to publicly criticise the work of state and other bodies and organisations and officials, to submit to them performances, petitions and proposals and to receive answers if he seeks it". In order for you to be able to verify your ignorance, or to be able to educate yourself, the Constitution states that Article 48(1) of the Constitution. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So every public-functioning carrier, who deafens this rule, directly violates the Constitution. Furthermore, you can use the comparative rights and experiences of other countries in the environment, in which almost every directly elected president has a certain kind of direct communication with citizens. Whether they are called secretariats, whether they are working within the cabinet, whether they are national offices or any other name, in any case each of them has a team within which they establish direct communication with the President of the Republic directly elected. So any citizen who wants it can ask a question and get an answer. In order to know what is concrete and how specific the requirement of citizens was, based on numerous addresses to the president – there were more than 12,000 written and large numbers of visits, a huge number of phone calls, also listed as cases – the National Office in the period since it was founded justified its existence. The aim of its establishment is to change the bad habit of selecting officials and people who do public work not communicating with Serbian citizens. Moreover, in a comparative analysis of other countries, both MPs and ministers, and committees at all levels, also have all day-round open offices where it is possible to ask a question daily, ask and get an answer to the question that interests citizens. That is why President Boris Tadic has taken an active role in solving citizens' problems, implementing their ideas, initiatives, seeing their needs, attitudes and expectations, etc. So the constitutional basis exists. The reason for the existence of the National Office exists in the Constitution of Serbia. It's not compatible with the law that's here on the agenda. If you need further clarifications, they won't hate me, I'll give them to you again with great pleasure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19489	Thank you, Mrs. Stojcic. A replica based on Article 101(1), the word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. The Lapsus is, of course, directly elected both the President of the Republic and the President of the municipalities, except where exceptions exist in cities, I think it is Nis and Belgrade. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19490	I volunteered for the replica for the simple reason that I was misunderstood and cited. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia has existed since 1990. There were several presidents, all of them had a secretary-general, they had a protocol service and other services with an appropriate number of employees. It's similarly arranged in former republics, which are special states, somewhere called the general office, but it doesn't matter. None of them made an institution with such a capillary structure from Subotica to Presevo. There's been a criticism before. You won't tell me that blowing in a whistle can be on a bon-ton and past a bon-ton; banging in a pot -- on a bon-ton and past a bon-ton. But the constitutional position of the President of the Republic is prescribed by the Constitution. He should have a service to serve while he's working. If you took the basis for forming the National Office to hear what the citizens think, to have citizens contact him with some problem, when he solves it, it's not his function. And the National Assembly has a Board of Appeal, so it gets some material, forwards it to the competent authority, asks for an answer. Why? Because the division of power was executed. The former presidents of the Republic of Serbia, when they received a presentation, a complaint, a suggestion, an opinion, from a citizen, had a special service, several employees, who, when they look at, instructed the competent authority, asked for an answer, so the ministries are shaking, they say - the President of the Republic is asking for an answer on this and this issue, and they address the request, so they report to the President of the Republic. But no, there's abuse here. You want to strengthen your Democratic Party. You're the one who hired the executives to be only from the Democratic Party. In Prokuplje, an ex-candidate - district attorney, begging here, I'm not partying, and the last two days he's the head of the office. Explain to me whether Gilas meets the conditions for working in the authorities of the state administration. Does he meet the conditions? Does Leon Cohen meet the conditions? What kind of organization is that over there? The fact that the government doesn't want to touch the President of the Republic, so it doesn't increase, so there's no more pressure on the side, that's another thing. There's no constitutional basis. The constitutional basis exists for some professional service, but for the formation of the National Office, as the para-governments of a Democratic Party that needs to record what is happening, that it is then making alleged pressures. And how can the President of the Republic solve that? After all, you know, you were shouting, if someone's the president of the party, then elected President of the Republic, he should resign. What do you mean, you asked for it up until a few years ago, and now don't apply? Ma'am, don't worry, it's not a constitutional category, but it's such a constitutional court of the Republic of Serbia that it'll all pass. (President: Time. ) It is a pure abuse of the provision of the Constitution that you quoted. But the meaning of that provision is not the National Office.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19491	Thank you. The interpretation, of course, deals exclusively with the Constitutional Court. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Stojacic called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19492	I'll take the opportunity to present a copy of the Constitution, including these provisions, a photocopy, that those who didn't understand may get to know each other better. I understand the fear of the SRS when it comes to the People's Office. It's completely understandable to me why they want it so badly that it ceases to exist. In the last 60 years, Boris Tadic has been Serbia's first president to want direct contact with citizens. Of course, there was no such thing before because the previous president of Serbia, who is sitting in The Hague today, had no contact with himself, let alone with the citizens of Serbia, except to get information as many as they were and when they were forced to bring them in, mobilized and sent to one of the series of battlefields, which in the past 10 years there have been so many that none of us can count the victims, the victims, or the sufferers, or the consequences, or the agony that we have been going through. Of course these people didn't need any contact with the citizens because they didn't have any contact with themselves. They had no contact with the world they lived in, in the environment they lived in. Now the idea of making the National Office and the fact that the president and his cabinet gave up new cars and invested that money in the functioning of the National Office, the fact that at the moment there is more than 35% popularity among Serbian citizens, and I will remind you, this Parliament has about 4%, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is about 8%, enough to talk about the respect that the President of the Republic of Serbia has, about the citizens' trust with the president of Serbia, about wanting direct contact to try to point out the problems they have, about the fact that direct contact wants to try to solve at least part of their problems that they recognize, and the answers are not at any level of government. Because under the Law on Local Self-Government, if we are already talking about the Protector of Citizens, it is envisaged that the protection of citizens is formed, and almost nowhere is it founded, especially where you are in power -- there is no one to take care of the citizens. The fact is, it has more than 12,000 performances. I can tell you that 10,137 are listed, processed, solved, out of a total of 12,119 items. No one's lost an answer. It's mostly in the law department. There are people out there who can answer those questions. These 12,000 letters say there is someone to address the president, that he wants to speak to him, that the president respects the electoral body and citizens of Serbia and that he is the only one currently who has the legitimacy recognised by Serbian citizens. I understand that fear, and I understand the fear of fact, and I understand that it's a party complex that never won, but what's there is, the facts say differently. The facts say that at this point there is someone who really wants to communicate and who really wants to make contact with the citizens, who really wants to show that it exists because of the citizens and now and the future, both as president of Serbia and as an ordinary man, who thinks that only by this direct contact can you say that you are doing this job for someone else, and not just for yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19493	Thank you. The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic. For the sake of respect for the dignity of the National Assembly, I ask that we do not present false information. So, for the MPs of this assembly, as far as I know, something over 52% of citizens voted, so that someone wouldn't have thought it was true that it was 8% support, but over 52%. The exact information on how much it voted in the election for other organs I can give. As for the dignity of the Assembly, every three months I gave reports, and also the report that the president of this assembly, past any costs for the state and citizens, has reported through the cabinets neatly and their free work on the way he handled it, and during the four months and now, cases and problems that the citizens had. You get that information every three months, and for details, you can turn around. It's a good thing we have these institutions that care about the citizens. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19494	I'll try to answer some of the things that are mentioned. Of course, I don't want to comment on any claims that go beyond the importance of the National Office as to whether it's a possible constitutional category or not, and otherwise I don't want to talk about the Hague or the former times, or the praises of 12,000 people, etc. I want, first of all, to explain a little bit what this is about. No one disputes the President of the Republic's right to keep in touch with citizens, that's necessary. No one disputes the right of the President of the Republic to request a report from the competent state authorities, a response, or any information about any information, or any information about any information, information or news article, in any way. If he can hear directly from the ministers, why can't he send a letter to the ministry and say - about this case, please give me a detailed report to see what has been done, of course without the right to interfere in the outcome of this process. Nobody slows it down. Whether some former presidents used it that way or not is not the topic today. The topic I was talking about on the subject of the amendment to the DS was the Constitution, the possibility of protecting citizens and only a parallel was created with the possibility of whether there could be a National Office as an institution. She's beyond the importance of the service. The president's office should be located where the president is located. As much as it takes to be employed there, 20, 30 or 60, that's not what I'm talking about. It is a service subordinated to the president of the Republic, who, according to his orders, completes affairs and preparations, so that he can fulfil his authority. He can call the Prime Minister, the Minister, anything. He's giving us back the law to vote. He's the head of that executive government. It is that we have a parliamentary system, but we have a situation for the president to be elected in direct elections by citizens. It'll probably change that. There are different ways to combine this, but constitutional powers define the power of a president. He's always the head of the executive. That's why there's no need for him to build a special government, a law department, a social services department, to see if he'll be up for sports, water polo, etc. It is an absolute abuse of that authority from the Constitution, where it educates the service as the auxiliary body of the President of the Republic. She's part of the President of the Republic. They're advisors, press advisors, protocol, etc. With the National Office, it exceeded all possibilities, expectations and what the Constitution had in mind when such a provision was made. I'm not even talking about sherpas, pots, The Hague, so I didn't even want to read a stereotype letter about how 12,000 plays get answers. Why, I don't want to read, it's just a thing of style. The National Office should not exist because it is an abuse of the constitutional authority of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19495	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. The word has Mr. Sarovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19496	Mr. President, here's the deputy secretary that Mrs. Lakicevic-Stojacic mentioned me last time. And then I asked for a replica, and you wouldn't let me, you gave her one more word and Mr. Krasic. Which is why you're acting like this, I don't really know, but it's another violation of the Rules of Procedure. Regarding this education, which Mrs. Lakicevic-Stojačić offered me, I really have nothing against it. Surely I could learn a lot from you, but accept that there's a lot you can do from me. What you're saying about that direct contact that your president wants with the citizens, when you say it, I don't know if you were thinking about getting hold of that man who threw something at him in Gucci? Is this how the President of the Republic should behave and solve certain problems? Secondly, I don't think there's a state body, not only in Serbia, but nowhere in the world that seduces phone calls as objects, and you just said that's the case in the National Office. Then no wonder there are so many solved cases. I guess as soon as the connection is broken, you automatically seduce the object as a solution. You cannot say in any way that the president of Serbia, at the moment it is unfortunately Boris Tadic, represents the president of all citizens, because whoever wants to be president of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia will not be signed by the newspapers and in any joint statements with foreign governments as president of the DS. Is it the president of all citizens, who, past the decision of parliament and the Serbian Orthodox Church, called on Serbs to go to the vote in Kosovo, gave legitimacy to these elections, gave legitimacy to the Shiparian parliament, and whether this is the man who now washes his hands for what is happening to Serbs in Kosovo. Furthermore, is that the man who said he wanted to mediate the dispute between the SPC and the Macedonian Orthodox Church? Who he is to acknowledge at all the existence of some Macedonian Orthodox church, if by church canons that organization, as a church, no one recognized. What kind of dispute is that when it comes to SPC? Do you think by dispute that the bishop of the SPC was sentenced to two and a half years in prison, which was beaten, which was shaved in prison, is that what you mean when you say the dispute between the two churches? We already in Serbia's history had those who wanted to be everything, including the patriarchs, it is obvious that Boris Tadic is another one of them. It is also clear that he will never be the president of all Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19497	Thank you. So, here you go, about the amendment, of course. I'll just let you know. You still have time, by amendment, for your parliamentary group 13 minutes. Here you are, MP Milan Markovic. So only Mrs. Snezana Lakicevic-Stojacic spoke about the amendment for 2 minutes and 6 seconds. I say once again, therefore, the president under Article 101, be kind, but he did not speak according to this amendment, but according to the previous one. Be kind, Deputy Secretary, excuse Mr. Markovic, take care, and please do not disturb the order of the session by continuing to throw. At the same time, I say that I must respect the Rules of Procedure in relation to each MP, even in the order of giving a word. Here you go, Mr. Markovic, and I'm sorry to keep you waiting.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19498	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, as far as the amendments I have submitted to Article 1 are concerned, I think that colleague Lakicevic-Stojacic has fully explained why we think the government of the Republic of Serbia should accept the amendment and the ruling majority in this parliament. I will use only 2-3 minutes to avoid answering on other grounds, to simply respond in some way to a part of what Mr. Nemanja Sarovic said, to a part of what he said, and to what he can answer, a part of what he said does not deserve any comment at all. However, Mr. Sarovic mentioned a very serious state issue concerning the exit of Serbs to elections in Kosovo and Metohija. Mr. Sarovic, apparently only you still don't realize that one of Serbia's biggest mistakes after 2000 was just a boycott of elections in Kosovo and Metohija. Unfortunately, Boris Tadic then remained lonely in his pragmatic and logical stance that Serbs should then go to the Kosovo and Metohija elections, and unfortunately he prevailed, to say the position represented by your party, which was accepted by Vojislav Kostunica, which is that Serbs do not go out in the Kosovo and Metohija elections. The result of this non-election is what we have in Kosovo and Metohija today. Of course, I don't mean it directly. What we have in Kosovo and Metohija today is the result of many things, but among other things, the fact that we did not go to elections in Kosovo and Metohija has made it worse. Time will continue to show that it is a mistake that will be very difficult to correct in the future. It remains only for history that the president of Serbia then had an attitude that was not respected, and that only position was logical at that time, the only one was correct. It's just that the question is, what did we get by boycotting those elections? I would like someone to come and explain how much better it was for the Serbs because they did not participate in institutions in Kosovo and Metohija and based on election results. It's hard to explain, of course, because in no way is it better, the only thing that happened then was what it was for the past 10 years, which is that in the manner of politics, Slobodan Milosevic pushes his finger deep into those who decide the fate of Serbian citizens and the fate of Kosovo and Metohija. We only got that by not going to the elections in Kosovo and Metohija. Now, part of the ruling coalition is already trying to correct this mistake in some way, but all of these are meager attempts at possible participation or inaction in Kosovo institutions. I repeat, it's a mistake that can hardly be corrected. And if the Serbs had gone to Kosovo and Metohija to the elections, we would have a quarter of the MPs in Kosovo's parliament, and in this way we could certainly be far better able to realise the interests of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. And in the end, and if we decided afterwards on a boycott of institutions, it would certainly be much different and more meaningful than this way when we were not involved in elections in Kosovo and Metohija at all. So don't mention it, because it's a mistake of the government of the Republic of Serbia and of all the parties that then called for a boycott of the elections. It is another in a series of mistakes Serbia has made in its behaviour towards the Kosovo-Methochial problem, which obviously does not have a clear strategy, but is done from a diary to a diary, from public opinion research to research, and what is good for a particular political party at a given time, it is then signalled to citizens, without accounting for the consequences of further developments in Kosovo and Metohija. As far as the work of the People's Office is concerned, I really don't know why the People's Office hurts you so much, and I don't understand what the problem is at all that the SRS to this extent mentions the President of the Republic in every context, just not in one that is fitting to anyone who's responsible politician to mention his President of the Republic. Therefore, the President of the Republic will try to leave you alone in that part of his work. He's got citizens' trust in the election, doing his job the best he can. We are very pleased with the way he does the job and I honestly think that from politicians in Serbia Boris Tadic, from leading politicians in Serbia, he shows the highest level of dignity and does state affairs in the most responsible way. In the end, it is the president who has shown that the interests of the party are not in the right place, but in the interests of the state. Among other things, the decision when, knowing that we will be attacked by all of you, he reasonably said that Serbs should participate in the Kosovo-Methochial elections, for example. Therefore, the fact that you have lost those presidential elections is understood as some kind of frustration, but do not regularly use the assembly speaker to insult the President of the Republic, because the President of the Republic is the President of all of us and, as we do in our presentation, we respect the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, because he is the President of the Government of this country, whose citizens we are, whose MPs we are, so respect the President of the Republic of Serbia, because that is the President of all of us citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The same would be true of whoever was elected president of the Republic of Serbia, not only Boris Tadic. I'm sorry that this discussion obviously doesn't go on, because I have amendments to Article 5, and then to Articles 6, 9, 18, 26, 31, 42, and I think that in one constructive atmosphere with Mr. Minister we can discuss these amendments, that we no longer involve other institutions and that we are dealing with some cheap political marketing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19499	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Replica, because it's misread, you're reporting to the Rules of Procedure, right? Here you go. This was a request for replication. Of course, we have strict respect for the Rules of Procedure. Please don't throw it away. Here you go, Mrs. Stojcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19500	Let me explain. 12,000 items have been seduced, and a large number of phone calls are made daily. When there's a possibility, it reacts to them too. They're not being seduced like regular objects. I may have made some lapus, but I want to explain. So more than 12,000 items were filed, processed 10,137 items in operation 1,948, cases outside the National Office three, and done 31. Total 12.119. Phone calls can't be counted in fact, and they are recorded if there are serious problems and citizens are referred to on the phone in which they can address the National Office. So there's no reason not to communicate with citizens, the desire of citizens to get an answer. There is no reason in an offensive way to treat voters and citizens of Serbia, who have serious problems inherited from the past, when you may have wondered a little more than today, but certainly much less than in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19501	Thank you for your clarification. So, you got an apology. So more than 40 cases are being seduced daily within the institution, which is a great success. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19502	First of all, I would tell Mr. Markovic that what I was talking about is facts. You can't say that Serbs boycotted elections in Kosovo. Unfortunately, the SRS, it's not like that. Two Serb lists existed in those elections. However, only 800 voters came out. This shows how big and what kind of rating the President of the Republic has in Kosovo and Metohija. I really have no intention of convincing myself of that, because we all know very well, you are trying to wash your hands of responsibility for everything that happens in Kosovo. President Boris Tadic, with the two Serb lists and the 800 voters across Kosovo and Metohija, has given legitimacy to the elections held. Some representatives have been elected who do not represent anyone, there is also a minister in the Kosovo government, who claims to be a Serb. It is they and Boris Tadic who are responsible for all that and all the crimes that are happening today to Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. I am sorry that Mrs. Lakicevic-Stojacic is not currently in the hall, but it would be good for Serbian citizens to hear that the National Office solves the problems of Serbian citizens and why the percentage of cases solved is so high. Here, the National Office of the President of the Republic of Serbia, the Department of Social Affairs, and a certain gentleman, say, "Dear sir, on the request you made to the People's Office of the President of the Republic, we inform you that we have considered your request in detail and understood the seriousness of the problem you have shown us. On the occasion of your and similar demands of the citizens, we have launched an initiative that all other institutions will respond in good time and responsibly to the objections and demands of the citizens who address them. Also, the National Office in its daily work seeks to influence competent institutions in order to access citizens' problems more effectively. We sincerely thank you for your trust. Respectfully, the head of Zorica Gruevski's department." This is a problem for your People's Office. So it's clear here about solving problems or any deeper entering into the problem itself, and basically there's no point. This is one general answer, where the People's Office just changed the name of someone who had enough confidence to address that office and think that something would come out of it. Change of name, they say - we have come to the knowledge of what you have told us, the problem is very serious and we will try for these and similar requirements. So this is an act of citizens' trust. This isn't what you promised, not 10,000 of these papers. You can print 100,000, but is there 10,000 citizens you helped? If this is any help, I think it's really a waste of money.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19503	Anyone else on the amendment? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Krstin. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Marko Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19504	Dear President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I look forward to finally returning to the subject of talking about the law. The law is called, to remind - a bill on the protection of citizens. Any connection to the National Office is ruled out or random. There was really a good debate over the constitutional basis. This is where I thank my fellow lawyers, because the outflows of love for certain party leaders were completely unnecessary. Article 1 on which I have put the amendment, which otherwise falls within the basic provisions of this law, provides for the person to whom this law applies. The law applies to both domestic and legal persons. My amendment, as well as the text of the bill itself, says the same thing, but the intonation is completely different. To point out that the basic provisions of the law serve to interpret the law in general, in fact, determine what kind of law is further and serve to interpret other provisions. Therefore, the basic provisions of the law should be significantly more precise than the proposed provision. That's why I suggested that this provision be neither contractual nor descriptive. It would rather belong to the reasoning of the law, not to the text of the law. Furthermore, the provision includes an assumption that it is absolutely not true, which is the assumption that both domestic and legal persons are not equal in this country, i.e. that in Serbia there is in a certain way different treatment of foreign natural and legal persons. I would like to remind you that in all procedural laws, foreign faces enjoy full protection. Only certain provisions, I will mention the Law on a litigation procedure, where the parties are natural and legal persons as participants in the procedure obliged to make an amount on behalf of the costs of the procedure, which ours are not, in terms of translation, etc. However, in fundamental rights, our legislative principle is that both domestic and foreign legal persons are in the same legal position, especially when it comes to the protection of their rights. If the norm says that citizens mean not only a natural person who is a local citizen, then that means that we in the system have such a system of protection in which the rule is that domestics still have more protection of rights. I don't think that setting should go, because it's simply not true. That's why I suggested that this part be restructured, which does not change the essence, so that citizens mean domestic and foreign natural and legal persons, whose rights are being dealt with by our bodies. So, without that assumption, we wouldn't possibly be solving the rights of foreign citizens, so this law gives them something special. Our legal order is not such that it makes a difference and absolutely reserves some rights for domestic citizens only. It's an exception, and the rule is that the rights are braided equally for domestic and foreign natural persons. After all, natural persons respond in the same way to the Criminal Law, in the same way they are treated in a litigation procedure, except in a provision that I have quoted and I do not see the need for such a provision. Furthermore, if we have already identified the authorities as the authorities of the administration, then I don't see why we are calling upon the termological "body of the administration referred to in Article 1." If we say "Governmental Authority", if we've already shortened it in attitude 1, it's legal nomotechnics now, then all we have to do is say "in relation to the organs in paragraph 1." Or say, "Governmental authorities." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19505	Following the same amendment, MP Natasa Jovanovic. At the same time, I am informing all MPs that today we will only be working until the debate is over in detail. If it's after 6:00, we'll continue after 6:00. So there won't be a vote today. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19506	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the general objection from the SRS is that there is this attitude 3 in the first article of the law at all. It's that famous story that Mr Tomislav Nikolic told from the assembly speaker several times, when a child tries to draw a horse on a board and when he moves out and sees that it's not convincing enough and that it wasn't skillful enough to write it down below -- this is a horse, so that someone would be convinced that his intention was precisely to show it. As if the promoter himself, the competent ministry, wanted to further convince us – and through these amendments we have shown that the formulation is not precise, and the fact that this law will in practice be inadmissible, or that it will not mean anything – defined attitude 3 which is completely pointless for the simple reason why such a thing should be defined in the Constitution. Then you have a situation to object to the current constitution or some future, if it changes at all, why isn't there a definition of a citizen. It is truly amazing that we should have one law and one that will establish the protector of the gunmen, and that what is a citizen, as a domestic and foreign legal and physical person, will be defined by some law in general as a term. You could, instead of this and the way that Mr. Krstin suggested, in accordance with the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, write that the protection of citizens, about to define it, because I can't give a precise formulation, at the moment that my colleague explained the amendment, and after I looked at it, it associated me with it, so that he cares about the rights and protects the rights of the Serbian citizen, as it stands in Article 48 of our current constitution and in Article 50. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and foreign citizens, i.e. citizens who are foreign citizens. In this way, through the attempt of colleagues and the proponent himself to define the concept of the citizen himself, or what the citizen defines, I believe that this is absolutely unnecessary and that you are a much shorter and more fundamentally acceptable formulation, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and that you could give and thus make all these confusions possible, and doubt whether the definition itself is good, do in this text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19507	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19508	Under the proposal for a Law on the Protector of Citizens, it is elected by the Assembly on a proposal from the Committee responsible for constitutional issues. It explains that any different legal solution would be unconstitutional. I will remind you that in most of the countries where the Ombudsman exists, which is how we heard from the exposé, about 130 countries, because of the position that the public's protector should in fact have, it is necessary to be deprived of any possible political abuse and therefore requires a two-thirds or even a quarter majority during its vote. Given that this is not possible because of the current solution in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Democratic Party has submitted an amendment stipulating that the protection of citizens can propose a committee, but two-thirds of the majority of the board members. We believe that at least in this way, it would avoid the possibility of a political party directly affecting the choice of citizens' protectors or that the ruling coalition fully sovereignly decides on the proposal and on the choice of citizens' protectors, because the protection of citizens should be a person who is indisputable among all parliamentary groups, among all citizens of Serbia, who should have unfettered authority and who would simply be given the position that this law would give her to be a person in whom we could all have great confidence. It would not depend on the day-to-day political will, since the motion for resolution is also identical to the appointment proposal and also does not give sufficient security to the person who should perform this very important, in our opinion, function and in fact establish a completely new institution in Serbia's legal system. We also think that it is necessary for the legislator and this Parliament to give much greater legal power, with great authority which should have a much greater trust that all of us, as MPs, would have given to a person, if unfortunately because of the inability of a different solution, because of the imperative rules given in the Constitution, she still had through the proposal of the Committee two-thirds of the majority of the committee members.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19509	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Krstin. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go. The word has the People's MP Marko Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19510	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal for my solution is no different from what is in the law, but a provision as well as it has been filed in law indicates that the parliamentary groups are not equal in the affairs they work on. The equality of parliamentary groups undoubtedly comes from the rights and duties of each MP and comes from the Constitution itself, the Law and the Rules of Procedure as a law that applies in the Assembly, which we have passed. I think a norm like this expresses the view that there are some parliamentary groups that are not equal, so it says, any parliamentary group can propose. I would ask if, without this provision in law, any parliamentary group could propose? I'm sure she could, because if they said they were proposing parliamentary groups, that would mean every, two, three or more together. So this norm shows us unnecessarily, wrongly, and opens up the possibility of interpretation without that norm perhaps some group of MPs might be able to do something that others can't. Since that is obviously not true, such an inaccurate formulation should be avoided and my amendment has gone towards the fact that parliamentary groups are proposing a functioner who will perform the duty of protecters of citizens. That is quite enough, and this regulation should not establish the status of parliamentary groups. They are equal by the Constitution and by all other regulations that follow behind the Constitution and do not need to strengthen their equality, because that would mean that we should then put in each regulation that we can propose each of the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19511	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19512	With the amendment, we propose that Article 4 be changed, that there are no so many views but that the citizens' protectors choose the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Why did we write that? When the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is said, it is then understood that it is done in a manner prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. We heard two concepts. One is to go through the constitutional committee of the proposal and how the committee comes to its proposal, so the two-thirds majority is said. We have another proposal concerning the parliamentary groups. I have to say, it's a different practice and you've seen it exists in 130 states, where the Ombudsman is intended as a constitutional category, a state body, and then a selection process is envisaged, who proposes and who chooses it. It is likely that parliament, as the highest legislative body, etc. However, until some strange case in this assembly in 2003 came to the agenda of the Bill on the National Bank of Serbia, it never happened that the working body would propose some choice decision. The first was the proposal to elect the governor of the NBS, and the law entered a provision that allowed the Finance Committee to have the status of the promoter, and later it was transferred to the Broadcasting Council, and now it has become like a bird flu. Now it's going, now no one can stop it. Once a precedent is made, it goes like a rule. All our committees are, not counting on the Committee on Administrative Affairs, which has some other competences, where it is also authorised to act on certain individual rights of employees and MPs, but all other committees are working bodies, cannot have the status of proposing. When does he have the status of a promoter? Under the Constitution, the status of the promoter has been regulated, Government, MP and in some other cases, as far as the Constitution is concerned, someone else. I mean, and you see for yourself, that the absence of a constitutional norm that would prescribe this extends to all other provisions of this law. We are stronger for some experience, when it comes to the National Educational Council, and why not tell the Commission to prevent conflicts of interest. It was a ridiculous Olympics when it was chosen here. We have suggested that only the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia choose, certainly in a manner prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, with the detention of those of our fundamental remarks that such a bill could not be adopted in the National Assembly. If this goes to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we extend the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Committee, independently of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are literally the only act governing the organisation, mode of work and decision, of course in accordance with the Constitution, in the National Assembly, as well as the status rights of MPs. The status of the proposing shall be disputed. In some new constitutional solution, it is possible for the President of the Republic to be a proposing but to prescribe it by the Constitution. It is possible to prescribe the Constitution and how it comes to the proposal, contact it and the team, so as it hears the opinion, it does so and so on. These are all possible solutions. I must say, there is no such thing in our Constitution. The second thing is that the body that enforces the laws under the Constitution is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The choice of this protector, the proposal, etc. It's law enforcement. So, in one of these possible variants, it is possible that even the Government is proposing to the National Assembly a candidate for this patron of citizens. But if all this came from the National Assembly, I don't think there's a basis for it. Two years ago, that principle was broken for the first time. That committees, working bodies, the auxiliary bodies of the National Assembly, that everything must go through those bodies to come to a decision at the National Assembly. What's the board gonna do? The board may propose an amendment. The board no longer proposes the choice of judges, you know that yourself. The Justice Committee could have done this before, but not on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, but on the basis of the Law on the Election of Judges. It's been erased. The Committee is now simply giving a position, as it has been through the board, so the conditions have been met that the National Assembly can discuss this. With this discussion, we would like to draw attention to you to stop the collapse of the principles on which this constitution and constitutional system are based in the Republic of Serbia. Some solutions are possible, but those solutions must first be foreseen by the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19513	Thank you. Does anyone else want a word? People's MP Nemanja Sarovic reportedly, following the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19514	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, that it is not the best of this Article 4 also speaks of the fact that as many as three parliamentary groups have proposed an amendment and a change in this way of choice and the way of proposing. The solution proposed by the Serbian Radical Party is convincingly the best, most precisely, legally purest and says Article 4 is changed and reads: "The Protector of Citizens elects the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". You, both in this and in some other laws, are re-interrupting certain powers. You're trying to regulate some matter, which should definitely be regulated by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, by law, and when you make that initial mistake, you easily fall from one mistake to another. In my opinion, it is completely wrong to prescribe by law, to determine the way a congregation committee will work. Then why are we bringing the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Do you think this law will oblige another congregation? Will the next majority be able to change the Rules of Procedure and to change the way things work in the National Assembly, or will it be necessary to change the light of other laws in order to do so? I think it is much better that you stuck to that verified principle that has been in force for years, which is that the work of both the assembly bodies and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia itself is regulated by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. So I think it's wrong to say that it takes a two-thirds majority in committee sessions. You yourself know that at committee meetings, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, as well as attendance here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, there should be no quorum, that the number of MPs attending a session of a particular committee is a more or less random category. We had examples here when some presidents were elected on the agenda, as well as the choice of judges, that some because of the lack of quorum, because MPs came in and out of the hall where the board's session was held, that some candidates, although not formally challenged, had not been challenged, had not received a sufficient number of votes. The same thing can happen here with the public defender, so that even one who has the widest support or even has the support of all parliamentary groups can, at the session, not get that two-thirds majority, because there are not enough MPs. Furthermore, if you are already saying that the right to propose candidates should have all the parliamentary groups, why would we transfer any jurisdiction to the committee itself? Therefore, the committees are both imagined and defined as the working bodies of this congregation, which have previously been searching some questions, to assist in the work of the National Assembly, and in no way should they be given authority which they never had and which, in no way, will make the work of the Assembly more quality. Finally, I would like to read Article 74 to Mrs. Lakicevic-Stojačić. The Constitution. That's the answer to what she said when I said it wasn't true that the only directly elected representative of the citizens of the Republic, but there are another 250 directly elected representatives of the citizens here in the republic's parliament. As I said before, that's what article 74 is about. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia: "The National Assembly has 250 MPs. People's MPs are elected in the direct elections by a secret vote." So the difference between indirect and direct choices is seen in some other things, not in those you insisted on and you thought about. The fact that a parliamentary group will determine if an MP is to resign or otherwise loses his mandate or mandate, a new representative, does not in any way mean that these people are not elected directly and have not been elected in secret elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19515	Thank you. According to the same amendment, Miss Jovanovic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19516	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of a bill, we will always stumble over how an authority, in this case, will protect citizens, to choose who will propose it, who are these people who participate in the proposal. Here the promoter gave us something that is really in contradiction with individual members of the law itself. If we are given the opportunity to choose our citizens' protectors, and the amendment of our colleague, Mrs Radete, was the most concise and clear in the sense that "The National Assembly is choosing the protection of citizens", and that is the point. It is known what the National Assembly is doing, what Col. Sarovic spoke of, according to the Constitution. There's no telling what the board of directors are doing. It is known which committees are responsible, although there are also abuses here, frankly, in the individual committees and presidents of individual committees that some legislative proposals are being put on the agenda of these committees, although it is quite obvious that this committee is not the parent board for the law. What happens in practice and what happens so far? During the selection of various regulatory bodies and how she started with practice that former DOS government, and you continued with the bill, we had the same case and the same debate a few days ago, and when the election of members of the Competition Protection Council, both in amendments and in the election of members of the Council, which he proposed to us in his laws Mr Balinovac on behalf of the Government, of course, to the State Administration and state officials, and earlier at the National Educational Council. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is always on the way, it can do it, but, come on, now, every lawmaker will now propose to some idea and vision of what the Assembly is doing and what anyone can do, propose to us in a specific member of the law. That's ridiculous. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and all of you, as MPs, should not accept that in such a way any code of proposing is played with what is the job of the highest legislative body and what should be done. It is truly amazing that in the proposal of this member of the law, we are told by the legislators that the parliamentary groups, which at the committee's session, are able to make a proposal for the protection of citizens, and the parliamentary groups are, apart from these individual unfortunates, or potential unfortunates, made up of representatives of political parties. So they have a defined political attitude. You, in the text of the law, say that it should not be a protector or his deputy in the order of a political organisation, as if people are politicians, members of political parties, that is the worst thing there is. I don't think so, that's something that's the choice of every free citizen. I could have been sitting in front of a TV set 14 years ago, or one of you, sooner or later, watching what's going on, on some television program in the Assembly, what's the party doing in political life. My free choice was to choose what I feel and what I belong to, not only in this period of party formation, but also in the family tradition, what I am, to choose today the strongest political party - the SRS. You all had some free choice. So this candidate, who is a graduate lawyer, has ten years of experience, can be a member of the political party. Why wouldn't he be? Who is it that will investigate and look at his pockets or have insight into political party files is he a member of the political party? Don't play by the provisions of the law, which, essentially, don't mean, which are pointless, and that this way people are being discriminated against -- whether or not this party member is. (President: Time. ) I told you, when I was talking about Article 1 and the amendment concerning the city's civil defender, as he was called, in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government, in Kragujevac, that he was a member of the failed SPO, he is now in this Stevanović, or he is not, an organization, which he is or is not. But it wasn't our case either in the Kragujevac City Assembly because he's a member of the political party, but because he's incompetent and unprofessional and because he can't, he's not capable of his legal degree and calling to protect the interests of my fellow citizens. On the other hand, it is incomprehensible that this possibility is also given, and it is unacceptable for us to do what counterpart Lakicevic-Stojačić proposes - that it is done by the committee responsible for two-thirds of the majority because it is known and defined by such a Rules of Procedure, against whom the SRS was against, but as long as it is in force, it is likely to exist as such, in which way decisions are made and how the choice is made when it comes to a decision by the board. All this is pointless, that in any member it is taxed and stated, because the work of the National Assembly is clearly specified by the current Rules of Procedure. This, in line with Amendment 4, says Radeta. If it is chosen by the National Assembly, then it is known what is the work of the assembly and the board of directors and how it can be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19517	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about the amendment of the People's Parliament of the Witch of Radeta? Here's a word from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19518	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, every time we have a solution like this, I need to express my position on this. Sometimes it seems to me that fear is unwarranted, I do not know whose, from the National Assembly and from the MPs. It would be perfectly normal, it is my view of this matter, that the MPs in the National Assembly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Law, are making a choice of everything possible in all places, because then the citizens of Serbia understand one thing: they understand who took responsibility for a specific personnel solution. If there are detours, if there is a need to explain to the citizens that some of the people we propose and choose, they can't be chosen there if they're members of some political party, let me tell you right now, to tell myself to the citizens that we all know together that we're lying to them. So we all know we're lying to them together. There's no one we've chosen for any function, I'm sorry, it's really happening, maybe only in slow motion, and it's not what I say it is, and it's not a member or a political party sympathiser. Then we went further, we said -- it could -- if at the moment of the election we resigned and so we chose on important state and other functions in the country of persons who were members of the executive committee of political parties or were otherwise exposed to the public. First of all, there's no shame in being a member of a political party. Secondly, there's no reason for this to be a criterion in anything. Why? I understand those who advocate another argument, because if he is not a member of the political party, he will be able to freely, independently, impartially, properly perform his entrusted function. Of course, that would be nice if we were in the ideal sphere, but we're in the realm of reality. So it just can't be erased that way. We've had a few more problems here. We chose the lot; the lot, like something that, I say, happiness, is built into law, regulations, the way people choose and propose. Every day or almost every day I see citizens, travel through Serbia or villages in Chačka where I live. People don't understand that we're broadcasting from here as a message that we're being democratic. People want to understand, when someone takes responsibility, those parties who have a majority, choose Petar Petrovic for a certain function, then they know who's responsible when he doesn't do the job right. When we wrap it into these "democratic charms", when we make a surrogate - democracy, then we have a real consequence that people think it's some non-partisan, independent thing. That's not what we're doing. So, I would ask all those who propose, who write the laws, it's not something people understand, we just spray ash on the head if we do it, because, please, we chose recently Mr. Rodoljub Šabić, I suggested it on the Committee, it's not controversial, the man who was in charge of the Republic Agency for the Accessibility of Public Information, he was a member of the Social Democracy Executive Board at that point; he resigned, so from the next second he was no longer. It's nothing. It's to play, to waste time, to say that we've chosen non-partisan personalities. That's not true. In this law and in many other laws, it exists as a tendency. I understand all those who suggest it, but I am telling you that Serbian citizens understand this much better than I am talking about, and they argue that finally those who exercise power take responsibility for the exercise of power and say, in these places we choose and these people, and when they are not good, we bear the political consequences of the ugly proposal and the ugly work done. I again point out, in the National Assembly, I don't know why, in different ways, there is some fear that, for God's sake, MPs who are members of different political parties, different thanks to God, could abuse this or that. That's not possible. People's MPs are a sublimed people's will. There are 10 million Serbian citizens sitting here. Whoever doesn't understand it can't even explain it to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19519	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. Is there another parliamentary group that wants to talk about the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19520	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have submitted this amendment to Article 5, although among the MPs, and even within my fellow Members, there are different views. I remained consistent in expressing my view in the expectation that my thinking would be understood by the National Assembly or as a promoter. Article 5 provides for conditions that must be met by a person who applies to be the protector of citizens. Therefore, for the protection of citizens, a citizen of the Republic of Serbia who meets the following conditions can be elected - that he is a graduate lawyer, that he has at least 10 years of experience in legal affairs of importance for the performance of civil protection activities, that he has high moral and professional qualities and that he has observed experience in protecting citizens' rights. There's no need for me to compromise anything special about these four conditions. I just wanted to tighten the conditions by proposing that, at point 1), after the word "diplomation lawyer" be added the words "with a passed judicial exam". The explanation - as an additional condition for the choice of protection of citizens should be prescribed that it must have a judicial exam. The protection of citizens' affairs are the affairs of the most legal complexity, and I believe that the person elected to this post must have a judicial exam. From 2000 to 2004, I was president of a Belgrade municipality. I've had a lot of contacts with citizens who, in one way or another, have been threatened by the right or have felt that it is their right to be threatened. I must say, in doing this job in the municipality, it meant a lot to me legal knowledge, a judicial exam. The higher the level from which it communicates with citizens, the more complex jobs that have to be done and need proper knowledge to understand them, in the end. Often, the Ombudsman will have cases relating to the problems of the citizens of administrative matter, from some other matter covered by the law as a whole. Practically the best practitioners of the practice in this legal domain are precisely persons with a passed judicial exam and that tomorrow the Ombudsman would be able to look at a problem, to know whether any legal act is final, whether it is legal, whether it is enforceable, whether it is an administrative act, and if it is not an administrative act, whether it is a judicial act - these are serious differences that often even lawyers do not know. Those who have dealt with this matter know this, and most of them are those who have passed the judicial exam and worked as lawyers, judges, or have not worked as lawyers and judges, but have this judicial exam as a very serious exam that is difficult to pass. It really takes great legal knowledge from all areas of law. There were 13 exams at a time when I took all areas of law, it took a great deal of knowledge to pass that exam. If we require that someone be an Ombudsman to have confidence in this passed judicial exam, and therefore we have the assumption that he has this broad knowledge from all these areas, logically follows that he will better understand the things that are coming to him and that he will be able to reject those who do not deserve to enter the procedure because they are otherwise exhausted legal means. That's my suggestion. The graduate lawyers with the legal exam are many, and I think that by narrowing down these selection criteria, we would not lose our ability to really choose between many, many candidates. In this way, this Ombudsman would really have the opportunity to understand the problems with which the citizens are coming to us. Believe me, life is so inventive, there are so many different problems at every step, from the most benign ones that happen in the local community, to the most complex ones that go to the top of the state, it's very difficult to have knowledge elementally to understand the problem that comes before you. I therefore demand that a judicial exam be required because it is the greatest guarantee that we, within our system, can give that man to be professional enough to do this job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19521	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19522	I don't know what it is, Mr. Markovic, but you don't often notice me, I have to notice. It would be good for someone to explain this difference between the positions within the DS parliamentary group, that in the meantime, there is not another new wing "falsified" in the DS. We have the first proposal by Mr Milan Markovic to tighten the criteria in this Article 5, so that he is asked to be a graduate lawyer with a passed judicial exam. Because, my God, it takes a huge level of these legal skills from all over the area and it would be good to narrow down the choice and tighten the criteria. On the other hand, we also have Mrs Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic's proposal, which says - no legal knowledge is needed. He could also be a graduate politician or that he graduated from philosophy school. It is difficult to understand such confusion within the parliamentary group. That looks like a fraction in a fraction. What conditions are needed to protect a citizen? I think the biggest confusion would have occurred if some unfortunate case had been adopted both the one and the other amendment, which is also possible, so the law would have laid down everything so that someone who was a graduate politician with a passed judicial exam, or had completed a philosophy college with a passed judicial exam. I don't know if that's in line with the intensities of the amendment or the Bologna Convention, but it would be good if the motionary would explain it to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19523	According to the amendment, the word is made by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19524	I know it's foreign to you in the SRS that two people within the same party can have different opinions on one issue. For us in the DS it's really not foreign and on this issue we have different attitudes. So, I believe that the conditions need to be tightened, and counterpart Ruzdic believes that there is a need to allow a greater number of occupations to be ombudsmen. Both are perfectly legitimate. I understand the explanation of my colleague Ruzdić. It's a matter of the MPs and the government whether they accept one or the other or not, but don't make a comedy with this issue of thinking. It's just proof that we're dealing with this law. We care about making good legal solutions, and we have some of our suggestions in that sense that we would like to correct the existing solution. The fact is that here we have two amendments that are contrary, which is the expression of two attitudes, two views of one ombudsman institution. I don't see anything controversial about it. So I'd prefer if you could discuss one or another amendment. I'd like to hear what you as a lawyer specifically think about, whether it's enough to be just a graduate lawyer, whether it's necessary to tighten the terms or whether it's enough. Why don't we develop a nice discussion here for the assembly speaker on one issue which, in my opinion, is very interesting, and above all for fellow lawyers, let's get this straight. I don't see why you're throwing it into the field of politics and now some jokes, jokes. You are a funny man, that's not controversial. You're not funny, you're funny, and I'm glad to hear from you, but I would ask you, however, to have respect for what we're trying to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19525	Here you go, Mr. Krassic, according to the same amendment. It is decided by the President of the Assembly whether there is a basis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19526	It is good that there are two and perhaps more amendments on Article 5, I do not know exactly, but for these two amendments I call on MPs not to accept these two amendments, neither Milan Markovic's amendment nor Mrs Leila Ruzdic's amendment, and I will now state the reasons why I do not think these amendments should be accepted. Mr Markovic is asking for a change in point 1), to add words after the word "diplomation lawyer" to the word, I may not exactly interpret how it is in the amendment, but the point is that it is a person with a passed judicial exam. I don't think that's necessary. Why? For the simple reason that he, as you call him, protects citizens, only in his name has protection, but it is not legal protection or legal assistance from some competent authorities, courts, etc. It's not. He needs to understand quite what the citizen indicates is that he has been injured by some of the authorities listed in Article 1 and there is no graduate lawyer who would not know the basics of the general administrative procedure or any court procedure. It's not there. Usually, the condition - a passed judicial exam is required when it comes to some representation, and after the new Law on Prosecution, where the National Assembly has exceeded power under the influence of the legal lobby, where it is said that only a lawyer can declare on behalf of some of the litigation parties, that is where you fried the soup until the end. Not specifically you from the ministry, but the Department of Justice who defended the law. It's a dibidus overrun of all possible powers, because it's practically impossible for someone to have the position of a party. At the time, I was asking a question, and what do those companies that have indefinite employees, 50 or 100 graduate lawyers, and 20-30 of them with a legal exam? They can't be the authors of the review on behalf of their firm, which is a litigation party, but must be a large company with a few tens of thousands of employees to go to some lawyer and to formally do it and stamp it. Similar to the building licenses. You in Belgrade probably have a few dozen licensed construction engineers and they're on all construction sites, although the driver's engineers are a fact-finding manager, no, because this one has a license and he's pounding the seal, etc. Now, let me go back to specifically this amendment. So, I don't think it's a necessary condition to have a person who has to have a legal exam, because if they look at these next points that go after point 1), and especially the point that he has observed experience in protecting citizens' rights or that he has at least 10 years of experience in legal affairs which are important for doing jobs in the protection of citizens etc. It's not ruled out here that regular professors of law who, by definition, have all the possible and greatest education for these things, so this first point doesn't rule out this second, but it's set up as some minimum condition. As far as this graduate politician is concerned, I have to say, formally, it's not a major disturbance. Why? It's no bother because that protector doesn't come forward as a representative of someone in front of a state body. He's not even a pronoun, he's not even a legal representative, he's just some kind of person who receives information, checking whether that information is correct, whether there's been some harsh violation of the law at the expense of the fundamental right of an individual and an appropriate act, and he's at the level of a letter that has more moral than legal weight, affecting the authorities to change their behavior, to look at the application of that law differently, etc. So that would be kind of acceptable and possible. However, since it is contrary to what is fundamental in point 1), that amendment should therefore not be accepted. Something else, we now have a situation to deal with human rights and machine engineers. So someone pretends to be the director of some office there, and he's a machine engineer, so he's not doing machine engineer work, he's doing economic propaganda, buying and reselling minutes on RTS, billboards, designs, etc. When someone here is fighting for a profession, etc., then it needs to be consistent, it needs to be pushed that principle in all places where it's just like that to apply the principle. It's not nice to talk from a pay phone and do something else in practice. That's the basic observation. In this article, and let me say that it regulates these minimum conditions that it must meet that person in order to propose and choose to protect citizens, there is a point 3) and says it has high moral and professional qualities. Now I think that if this proposal remains as most have imagined, I'm not sure the Constitutional Committee can assess the moral and professional qualities of a candidate. It's hard to do that. It's all in the domain, and eventually it comes down to a range of taste and interest. Further, observed results and experience in protecting citizens' rights. Now I don't want to mention those names so they don't scream at the paper again and write some petitions. For these 10-15 years, we have had so many promoted people as if they were citizens of the holy world. All the families devoted themselves to it, etc. It all worked out until his personal interest came into question. When it comes to his personal interest, there is no law, no constitution, nothing. You remember in "Resistance" some professor, so he's everything, he's on a knife to slaughter, and later he finds something for him. You remember that famous family, so when Dad was elected a member of the Broadcasting Council, they saw a conflict of interest. Don't put that in law enforcement, 'cause that's probably what you're assuming. Now, about this work experience, I think most MPs, I'm not quite sure if there's any amendment that requires this to be reduced from 10 to 6 years, whether there is, I think, that this working experience exists every judge who has 10 years of employment. What was he doing? He applied human rights regulations. The person who worked in the administration was authorized to sign the solutions, conduct a shortened procedure, etc. He has that experience. How can we assess whether his experience is time-consuming, the quality he needs. It can be estimated on the basis of the fact that there are clear criteria for the judge, how many first-degree judgments he did, how many second-degrees he annulled, abolished, etc. This concludes not only the time period, but also the quality of work. And since I notice a long time ago that this bill figures around here with 3-4 individuals who would have allegedly fulfilled it, because they went far ahead of all things, etc., I have to tell you, there were a lot more people who represented themselves as some human rights experts than they are. I can tell you they even misbehave. If you take some who are headed by some NGOs, who want to be presented to the public how they pathologically love human rights, pathologically protect human rights, and even at one point as she said, which is sexual abuse, so when it all fell down, then it didn't go because there's no member in our law. If that's how you put people in this mix, could they be candidates, then you totally missed the thing. I'm telling you that in public perhaps an anonymous person, who does his job very well in court and directly implements the rules, controls the application of the rules, and they always concern human rights, when it comes to the court, can satisfy this function, if such a law is passed, to be freed from any pressures, some dirt from the past and some connection or some debt to someone in politics, so that he can do this job very well. We don't need so many sound names. We need, above all, to be managed by the elemental profession of that person and the desire to engage in some domain to recommend, intervene, address the public and otherwise influence. However, I must tell you that his range is limited. How can he affect what he has concluded to be a violation of the right of a citizen, when, for example, that verdict or solution is made on the basis of a binding position of the Supreme Court? We will have a point on the agenda tomorrow to change the Code of Criminal Procedure, only because the Supreme Court misread the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, because it believes that the MUP is not the BIA, but also the BIA. Now we're changing the whole law to get the BIA, which, by order of the investigating judge, could perform some of the actions that would have been used to collect evidence, and as regards terrorism, organised crime, etc., with respect to the fact that the Code of Criminal Procedure was brought much earlier than the BIA was specifically drawn from the MUP. Now, we're changing the law because someone misread it, tended to misread it, and did not ask what was the matter with the responsibility of the investigative judge who gave the order to do it. You see what's set in this Supreme Court, how they interpret it, and how they create our reality. Now they're answering, but we'll do it the other way around with those announcements. So I've expressed my position on these amendments. I have tried to state the reasons why these amendments should not be accepted, but I have also pointed to some illogicalness or something that remains in this article, which can be misread or, as it is written, that it means nothing in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19527	Replica, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19528	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. I don't think it's really correct that Mr. Predrag Markovic has now left you to hold a session, although he knows well that I had the right to reply, but I repeat, I thank you once again for your correctness. At the same time, I have to tell you that it is not true that there are no different opinions within the SRS. As a party that is particularly democratically organised internally, we allow individual members to have different opinions. We also believe that it is normal for these opinions to be agreed, so that when we act here in parliament, we act uniquely as a parliamentary group and that we know what position we represent. It is unserious that one parliamentary group, that's what you can call comical, submits two amendments to the same member of the law, where one requires a tightening of conditions, and the other wants more flexible conditions and then at two different ends of the rope you have representatives of one parliamentary group. Then I don't know what kind of message you're sending to the citizens of Serbia, and is that the seriousness you're complaining about?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19529	Mr. Sarovic, I have no right to discuss here, so I'll refrain, but next time I'll tell you about it. Is anyone else reporting on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Ksenija Milivojevic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's Messenger Ksenija Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19530	So the amendment is very simple and its essence is that the condition of least, I stress this "at least", ten years of experience, down to six, remains at least six. Of course, that additional provision doesn't change. And of course, the rest of point 2) remains. Point 2) would read "that there are at least six years of experience in legal affairs which are important for the performance of civil protection tasks". I purposely stress this because in point 2) the condition is stated cumulatively, not alternatively. It is not in the situation that it has either a working experience or a legal experience of the importance of performing the tasks of the protection of citizens. Usually, when there is such a high-level limit in years of internship, or experience, it is alternatively set up with another qualitative condition. That's not the case here. I agree with the promoter that he should stay this cumulatively set, but then this condition of at least ten years loses its meaning, and loses its meaning for several reasons. First, this is an institution that is first introduced into our legal system, and it is very difficult to talk about people who could have had that kind of work experience. I agree with my colleague Krasic that any judge on average, given the work he does, probably every law professor, depends on the case, could have this work experience. But the question arises, what are we going to do with those people who, for example, have nine or nine years and two months of work experience, which meet all other conditions. They automatically drop out that they don't have this formal condition. So when you say "at least six", it doesn't matter if someone's 10, 11, 15 and over. I am sure that in the election process, it will only be seen as an additional quality. So no one's gonna be taken for the evil that's 10, 11, 9 and so on. years of work experience, but in the beginning, practically, limit this to a very narrow circle of people in Serbia, for one institution that for the first time is introduced into the legal system, which automatically means that there were no people involved in this way, practically, leading to us getting down to a narrow circle of candidates. Furthermore, it should also be said that the person chosen, whoever it is and whatever professions it is, will practically learn from the beginning. So far, we have experience with the circuit ombudsman, we have experience with ombudsmen at local level, but essentially every person who comes to this place will certainly learn and set up that institution, practically, from scratch. Therefore, this condition of at least ten years can make sense in the situation, since the proponent calls for comparative legislation, in countries where the institution has an extremely long tradition and where it is really most common for people who have been dealing with such affairs for ten or more years, whether they have worked in the services of their ombudsmen, whether in any other way they were related to this particular job. It is very difficult to talk about in Serbia. I repeat once again, it remains for at least six years, which means it'll just be a plus for a candidate who has years of working experience. I'm sure there are very reasonable people sitting here, that they'll take it to such a candidate just as a quality, not as a flaw, which has many years of working experience than what the law requires. Don't rule out potentially good candidates. It doesn't have to be six, because it's at least six, it can be eight, nine, but don't turn it off just because they don't have ten years in the workbook. There's a lot of them in this country. And there's been a lot of them today, and there's been a lot of them in the last ten years. If we start from these ten, many people have a working experience, but unfortunately it's not properly documented. I think that in that sense, it is indeed absolutely restrictive in this condition and that it can lead to the fact that we have two or three candidates in practice and that then that choice again in the end, which I would not like to see happen in this assembly, is more political than to be a realistic assessment of the quality of the proposed candidates.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19531	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19532	Here this condition is set as a minimum, but mandatory, ten years in legal matters, it's not every ten years. Probably ten years on legal matters that are important for the performance of the protection of citizens, which is understood in the administration, the judiciary, etc. It is a condition that needs to be met, and it is set to strengthen the guarantee that this man has specific weight as an expert and that he can do this job. In order to avoid misreading, I must say that in front of the European Court of Human Rights, an individual can represent a person who is not even a lawyer and is not even a lawyer. The man lost in the process, believes that his human rights have been violated, can submit a presentation to the European Court of Human Rights, on the eight-page form, attaches all evidence to prove that everything in the country is exhausted, gets a number in Strasbourg, goes to that written part of the procedure, and, if necessary, eventually the oral part, if it is a new and significant issue concerning human rights in Europe. It may happen to us that if someone makes a parallel between citizens' protectors and the Ombudsman, and what is happening in the European Court of Human Rights, to make a mistake, and it can make a big mistake, because this protector, since the second point of his jurisdiction is to control the work of the Authority of the administration, in terms of not only the urgency, so that the party is treated rightly, that it is not discriminated at the beginning of the procedure, can spread those rights, but it is possible that the protector may take a different position, and that he does not know that the European Court of Human Rights, on this legal issue, has taken a completely different legal position. So I just said, this experience and this knowledge, much more knowledge than experience, because the fact that we do not have that kind of experience, because we are only two years able to address the European Court of Human Rights, because in 2003 the state was admitted to the Council of Europe, which was a condition for establishing this jurisdiction. So it is possible that our citizens' protector here in public recommends represent some attitudes, and when a citizen is struck by this trust given to him by the protection of citizens that he is right, that his right is violated, when he addresses the European Court of Human Rights, he is grossly surprised when the European Court of Human Rights says we are not competent or we believe that there has been no human rights violations in the conduct and acts. We already have several such cases, they are painful for those families where the European Court of Human Rights has called incompetent. It's already a specific situation with regard to time and other things. It's not very good for comparison. When we talk about this expert, the circle of those persons can be reduced to several professors at law schools who have some experience with the work of the European Court of Human Rights, because it does not make sense that our civil protectionist represents attitudes that are contrary to the views of the European Court of Human Rights. Just to remind you, we have been witnessing these years that the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in its rulings is making legal views denying the views of the European Court of Human Rights on certain legal issues. Almost every third verdict, which imposes punishment on one of the Serbs, contains an explanation why the UN tribunal did not accept the European Court of Human Rights' position. It's already another dimension, not specifically this, but it concerns this future expert who should be doing this job if the law passes. In those waters, we need to look for this expert of ours. I can tell you five or six names in this country, and there's an end to the story, which has direct experience, which contacts the Committee against Torture, the European Court of Human Rights, takes students there, explains to students or leads to the International Court of Justice in The Hague. They're professionally following international humanitarian law and they know what human rights are. I think about this work experience, I support the position of looking for a longer internship on legal matters. The possibility of getting acquainted with the views of the European Court of Human Rights exists in the Ministry of Justice and probably in other our ministries, where some legal views relevant to the government's legislative activity are used, when it proposes, not to propose something that has already been declared by the European Court of Human Rights and assessed that such a provision constitutes a violation of human rights. They control everything and everything, but there are also contradictory decisions in the European Court of Human Rights, and that is to be said. That court is not deprived of political influence. There are two concrete examples that concern our territory and our citizens who have spoken, where there are contradictory decisions. When all this is said, there is no need to give undue great hope to the citizens that everything is now honey and milk, now that we make a protector, so they can't look down on the counter because he has a picture of the protectors of the citizens standing in his mind as someone with a sword that seduces some order. It's not gonna happen. As far as any experience is concerned, we've had people who've done some sort of protection of citizens' rights. Most lawyers probably did the job that way, and most judges probably did the job that way. I must tell you that for a time, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia and that, in its decisions on the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of certain general acts, he had taken care of the protection of the rights of citizens, where he directly established disagreement or conflict with the Constitution. So, people like that exist in our country, it probably takes between five or six candidates to pick a man who meets these conditions in terms of work and work on these jobs, and there's something to be done, but don't go with any false hopes, because if you do this and then 12 or 15 thousand people go. Or when the Supervisory Board was formed at the Supreme Court, we then warned that you were not doing so because then all those who were dissatisfied with the verdict would be burdened by the Supreme Court with some notions. I don't know how many hundreds of plays were within a month or two. Now the court doesn't know what to control or how to control. The Supreme Court Supervisory Board cannot enter the cases and resolve the dispute between the parties. There's a limited fact. Maybe it's not the right example, but don't give people too much expectations. It doesn't go that way physically or legally or otherwise.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19533	Thank you. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Krstin. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Marko Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19534	Ladies and gentlemen, I have tried an amendment to make a more meaningful one of the powers that the protector gives to his deputy. As the law provides for the protection of citizens to determine a deputy who will practically act as the elders of the authority, the authority is in the domain of the one who gave this authority. The authority serves, on the contrary, the one upon which the Deputy Protector of the Citizens appears to exercise the authority of the Protector himself. Therefore, it is quite logical that instead of "determining", as an internal act of civil protection, we put "authorised" and that it would, of course, be the authority in writing, which the Deputy Protector of citizens will be able to show. It's important from another point of view, because in front of the body he steps forward when he exercises his powers, he must have a content in which he comes forward and what he can do, as long as his powers are extended. This is not how we have it. So I believe that it would be established to accept this amendment, so that the norm would be specified and that those bodies before which the deputy, acting as the elder of the authority, would know with which authority he steps forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19535	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19536	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an amendment that I have filed on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group on behalf of Article 7. The proposal for a law on the protection of citizens makes sense for this member to be deleted. Why? In the opinion of the Serbian Radical Party, it is inappropriate to impose an oath obligation and commit someone to swear an oath before the National Assembly if it is a body not provided for in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We have already heard a lot of arguments about this and from counterpart Zoran Krasic, who explained in detail, about the Constitution, why it is not envisaged, and that no law on the protection of citizens should be introduced by new state bodies that are not foreseen by the existing Constitution. Perhaps it would have been better if a promise had been kept, so that it was the adoption of the Constitution, which should have followed immediately after the election had ended, in fact and followed, so if there was a majority, of course, you can determine that there would be and that there would be any state authority. In this way, he's trying to in some artificial way contribute to the authority of someone who needs to perform this function. We think that this law will also be a complete failure, that the protection of citizens will be some category that will not be able to contribute to the exercise of rights, that there will not be enough opportunity to know about certain injuries. Of course, he won't be able to go through the media, which you'll all admit is the only way to find out about any injury and to warn someone about any injury, to react in no way from the cases that will be brought before him. We all know that citizens, especially at the beginning of work, will submit numerous criticisms, performances, demands, applications, as well as any other acts, will send this protector to the citizens. But it's clear that after three or four months or half a year, it's going to stop and it's going to be reduced to some minimum measure. This is going to happen for a number of reasons. One reason is that there is no tradition in our legal system, nor in our people, there is no tradition of such an institution as the Ombudsman. We still have the President of the Republic, who tried to take over part of those functions that should be conducted by the Ombudsman under this law. We saw that he failed, too, that they were just empty promises. It is clear that by this law you are declaring you will certainly not be able to achieve it. If we were to predict that now every new body that is formed, and that is often the case, that everyone here in front of the assembly is sworn in, it will happen exactly the opposite of what you said in your explanation about not accepting this amendment. The government says there is no legal act in the legal system that would potentially exclude other officials elected by the National Assembly, other than those provided for in the Constitution, from swearing before the Assembly or the President of the Assembly. You should also understand that the fact that the Constitution sets out which officials will take an oath before the Assembly, the very fact that it is defined in the country's highest legal act, should be sufficient for you to realize that it cannot be legally determined which other authorities, or the heads of the authorities, are state officials who will be sworn here. If it were the intensity of whoever was making this constitution, it would simply be left out for those who are determined by the Constitution to take an oath here, rather than that complete matter would be left to regulate certain laws or some further legal projects. What has been said that only taking an oath before the Assembly should contribute to the authority of the institution of the protectors of citizens, I don't think that should be the case either. Whoever is elected as the guardian of the citizens should in itself have certain qualities and authority. You won't be able to breathe in, in one artificial way, someone who doesn't have authority, by doing that act of swearing, by reading, in 20 seconds or less, this one sentence that represents the text of the oath. No one can seriously think that this is how the authority of a particular institution can be acquired. It's more like it's gonna happen the exact opposite. Rather, by taking a frequent oath before the MPs of the people, or before the National Assembly, they will fully consider this oath procedure themselves. It is one thing if we have three state officials or five state officials who will swear before the MPs, because that is the very act of giving us a certain seriousness and authority. But if it's a picture that citizens will look at every other day and if every state official comes here to take an oath, it's completely pointless. In this way, the functions of the president of the state and these other presidents, the Supreme Court, etc., which are to be sworn before this House. For all that, I suggest that this member be deleted. It will not essentially affect the law, as there will continue to be a protector of citizens, will be chosen and everything else, will have the same functions, rights and obligations. But there will be no other state officials, no 250 citizens elected here, by introducing in every new law another person who will take an oath here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19537	Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I'm setting a break from one hour to 14.45 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19538	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon work today's session. One more good day. We have reached an amendment to Article 8. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Markovic. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19539	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic has tabled an amendment to Article 8, which requires that Article 8 be deleted. The reason is very simple, Article 8 is absolutely unbulful. I will read it, it is said, "It is believed that the protecter of the citizens, or the deputy protector of the citizens, is on duty at the time of the oath." Second position: "If, without a reasonable reason, the protector of the citizens or the deputy protector of the citizens does not enter into office within 30 days of the day of the oath." I think you've been following me, if he's on duty on the day of his oath, how now, if he doesn't take office 30 days from the day of his oath? Does his entry into office last 30 days until he arrives until he comes in until he sits down? Incredibly, in copying, in translation, I don't know what procedure it was when you translated this law from a country, there was a mistake. Even the creators of this law can't be clear what the writer was going to say. On the other hand, when I went out for the pay phone, the patron of the citizens, who is the protector who will protect the state from your own? I'm reading the papers yesterday, the day before yesterday, giving up this encrypted political organization, Davinic; he is a thief. But, ladies and gentlemen, Davinic is a thief, but he's your thief. And Dinkic is a thief, but he's your thief. You can't give up one by one. Labusa's leg hurts, some company's gone, and the next day you'll give up Labus. And you're clean, and they were, as soon as you noticed they were acting like that, as soon as you noticed that they had thieving tendencies, you gave them up. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the election is the only solution for the state of Serbia to stand. This amendment, when it comes to the vote, I suggest that you adopt, anyway, the law is inadmissible, but at least to make it look like something, so that the world doesn't laugh at us when we read, say, this Article 8.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19540	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you go, Mr. Crassy. I note, like a few months ago, so the D.C. abbreviations is a number, but it's not a code; it's just a shortcut from the party's name.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19541	There's no keybinding in Article 8. It's all clear that it's not clear. It is said: "It is believed that the protection of the citizens, or the deputy protector of the citizens, has taken place at the time of the oath." So he took office after the National Assembly made a decision on the election, so he took an oath; he took an oath and took office. He goes on to say: if the protection of the citizens, or his deputy, for no good reason, does not enter into office, means he does not take an oath within 30 days of the day of the oath, it does not work. Then it's an addendum: it's considered not selected. Whether or not he is elected is decided by the Assembly when he votes. This is about a kind of mess. It got a little mixed up with some of the principles that apply to the labour law that if someone was chosen after the competition, so he did not enter into office within a certain period, and there is no valid reason, then he is considered not to have started a working relationship, etc. But that institute can't be applied here. Because if this institute is applied, if these words are interpreted as what is written, it can be seen to be pointless. There is probably some analogy with similar provisions in other laws, probably the Law on Judges, the Law on Public Prosecutors, etc. However, it is absolutely inapplicable when it comes to this institute, if you accept this bill. That's why we suggested erasing this member. If an independent review of Article 8 is made, let's say, out of the bill, it doesn't question your concept of the law at all. No question about the concept of the law, absolutely not. We have this entry into office, taking up positions of some function as a permanent patient state when it comes to this trustee for information. You remember, that one letter you provide me with my office, and where the office is to be provided, and who's to set his salary, that's where it's been quite months. It seems to me to be the fate of all senseless laws. Therefore, it is right to note this absolute illogicality which cannot stand in one bill of law. That is why this amendment has been proposed. I think the government can accept this amendment, because it does not question the other provisions of this bill and resolves this logical dilemma.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19542	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legal, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Krstin. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Marko Krstin. I repeat the notice, for those who did not hear before noon, so today, the Assembly will only be sitting until the debate is over in detail. So if that's before 6:00, until then, and if not, we're going to extend to the end of this point. Here you go, Mr. Kristin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19543	It's an amendment that doesn't change the concept of the law, but perfects the legal standard that it's about. The draft law lays down a binding provision, which means a mandatory provision, which says: it is resolved. On the contrary, Article 3 of the same proposal puts it as a dissuasive norm: it can be resolved. It is simply proposed to perform appropriate coordination. It is also very important that I point out that in the administrative procedure as a very frequent complaint of the parties, untimely work appears. We believe that, especially because the General Administrative Procedure Act is armed with the functioning of the Authority of the Administration for a month, or two months, to resolve administrative cases in simpler and more complex cases, we believe it is very important to stress this untimely conduct of affairs, especially in the light of the provisions and intensities of European law, which obliges the state that, when state authorities do not provide services to citizens within a certain time, the state is in damages, i.e. due to the compensation of such citizens. In this way, we will practically go out to meet the protection of human rights - which we will oblige civil servants in this way, to do so in a timely manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19544	Thank you, Mr. Christin. Anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19545	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 12. The draft law provides for an institute for the release of citizens' protectors. It provides for the protection of citizens to be resolved by the Assembly on a proposal from the Constitutional Affairs Committee or at least one third of the total number of MPs. Paragraph 3 sets out the reasons why the protection of citizens is to be resolved and states that the reasons for the resolution are unprofessional and unwitting to perform its function, if it performs another public function or professional activity and if it is convicted of a criminal act that makes it unfit to perform that function. The SRS is of the view that the proposal for the resolution of citizens' protectors should be exclusively in the power of the Assembly and that the initiative should be launched by at least one third of the MPs, and that this is not left to the committee, above all to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and it is unclear why they would even propose the choice and resolution of the citizens' protectors, especially as it has been repeatedly and repeated that the civil protection is not foreseen by the Constitution of Serbia and that it is not a constitutional category. The Ombudsman is also designed as an authority of the legislative authority, where he is elected and resolved by the Assembly and should be in the exclusive jurisdiction of the Assembly, and the proposal of a person to be elected as protector, and the means of resolution should be in the exclusive jurisdiction of the Assembly, not the Assembly Committee. The second principled objection to this member of the law, where the amendment was intervened, refers to paragraph 4 where it is envisaged that the civil protection officer has the right to address MPs at a session of the Assembly in which he decides on his resolution. The amendment provides for the removal of that position 4 because there is no reason why the protection of citizens would have the right to do so, while some other elected persons elected by the Assembly do not have the right to declare themselves before the Assembly, and there is no reason why this right would exclusively be given to the protection of citizens, so that we believe that this amendment should be adopted and that the adoption of this amendment would improve the text of the law itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19546	Thank you, Mr. Milajic. Anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19547	Amendment to Article 12. The bill on the protection of citizens was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, because there are a lot of inconsistencies and inconsistencies in this article. In the first position, the protection of citizens is said to be resolved by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Committee or at least one third of the total number of MPs. In this way you give the committee, in which there may be seven or eight, or perhaps three members, in accordance with this new Rules of Procedure, the same importance that you have given a third of the Members of Parliament, or equalise 83 MPs with seven or eight of those sitting right in that working body. You don't have any right to do that, of course. It is absolutely unnecessary to say that those sitting on this committee or on that committee are not absolutely smarter than those sitting on the board, which is likely to be the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, although it is not regulated by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So enter a provision into a legal system that is directly contrary to the provisions already in place in the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, but at the same time you do not submit the other MPs sitting on some other assembly committees, which represent only the working bodies of the Assembly. On the other hand, Article 2 of which we have proposed to delete, says: "If the proposal for the discharge of the Citizens' Protector is submitted to the Committee, it is necessary to declare most of the total number of members of the Committee for its submission". The first logical assumption is that if a smaller number is declared, the board will not propose such a thing. It's something that's normal and shouldn't have been brought into this law. Finally, we have a proposal to delete attitude 4, namely where it is said that the citizens' protector has the right to contact the MPs at the assembly session, which decides on his resolution. Although we did not agree to the adoption of this new Rules of Procedure, especially with a provision authorising the President of the Assembly to invite anyone to speak to the MPs and to speak what he wants, to speak without any restrictions, even though you have introduced a number of restrictions on the work of the National Assembly and on the length of the speech, the number of announcements, when anyone reports to the MPs, in this way you forget that this is the Parliament and that these MPs should be the ones who will lead the main word. So these are some rights that you cannot give, in the opinion of the SRS, or the ministers, or the Prime Minister, or anyone who comes here on the side to address this Parliament. He should be aware that he is among the elected representatives of the people, that he is a guest here and that this is how he should behave. So, it's totally unacceptable for these behaviors that have been insulted lately that the ministers here are behaving arrogantly, that they get the word when MPs can't, that they have the right to the final word, that they're being fitted with shocks for news and everything else, and that they don't participate in the debate in any way, but they come in 15 minutes, they hold their sermons here to the MPs, turn around and go away. I don't think that behavior really makes any sense, and come on, don't do any more things that are regulated by the Rules of Procedure to regulate through these laws in one, not only completely different, but a completely incorrect way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19548	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word has a folk MP, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. So that there may be no confusion with the MPs of the people, nothing in that part has changed. So all the rights to take and give words to government members are the same as in the previous five Rules of Procedures.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19549	The DS, of course, cannot support this amendment, which was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group, because by submitting its amendments, it has tried in some way to strengthen the position of the Ombudsman and to bring it into line with amendments related to the choice of citizens' protectors. We propose that in paragraph 1, contrary to what the SRS is proposing, the words "or at least one third of the total number of MPs" are deleted. However, in paragraph 2, if the proposal to resolve the protection of citizens is obtained from the board of directors, the actual number of members of the resolution committee would be increased to two-thirds of the committee members who can then submit a proposal to the Assembly for the discharge of citizens' protectors. What makes us think this is important? The reasons for the appointment are similar. Due to constitutional restrictions, we cannot seek a two-thirds majority in parliament, and we think that a larger consensus of MPs, which through the numbering presence in committees reflect the situation and the situation in the republic's parliament, would deprive the citizens of the direct intervention of political parties that the ruling majority have at some point and who are in fact exercising power in the Republic of Serbia. Also, in this way, we already have very wide-ranging reasons why it is possible to ask for a solution for the protection of citizens, because it is intended to carry out the work unprofessionally and unwittingly. In a country that has lived for more than a decade, where political struggles are still very harsh and very often incorrect, even one very safe, professional and responsible civil protectionist could happen if it is not enough under the control of the ruling majority or if it is not valid enough in relation to the requirements that the ruling majority would have asked it to be very easily removed. So, we want to strengthen the function of civil representative. It is important for us that this institution, if established, although we have a number of objections to this law and if it lives in the Republic of Serbia, be an institution that would indeed have a significant place in the legal system and in the system at all in the Republic of Serbia, and which could in this way be excluded from the day-to-day political struggles and have authority that would not be disputed by the daily interests of certain political parties who exercise power in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19550	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19551	Article 12 and these amendments, which have been submitted to this article, are a good reason to apologize for the other protector of citizens. There are probably other citizens' protectors under the other name, and they are called the republican public prosecutor, the prosecution, so why not tell the judges. I guess it protects citizens the best one who controls the respect of the law from everyone, both individuals and groups. The public defender, the public prosecutor, is elected and resolved in a procedure prescribed by the Public Prosecutor's Office Act. If it's the judge, then the law on the choice of judges. It elects the National Assembly, on a proposal from the High Council of Justice, to resolve the National Assembly on a proposal from the Great Personal Council. When it comes to the prosecution, it's a similar situation. The judge or prosecutor who is being resolved has no opportunity to address the MPs. There is an opportunity here to address the MPs of the people, and absolutely unnecessaryly this provision is a place in this law. Why? Because these questions, how they will be organised and how the National Assembly will work, are the subject of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, not the subject of some law on the protection of citizens. In that sense, I support that part of the amendment relating to this final position, where the possibility of conversion is given. I have to say, there's a little bit of an exaggeration in the practice of the National Assembly. Only authorised persons, 250 MPs, government representatives can be present in the National Assembly, and, especially with regard to some points, with a representative of the government, can be a trustee, but also authorised, who has no right to come out and explain, there is a representative of the government. There may be some variations with the President of the Supreme Court, the Republic Public Prosecutor when they take an oath, or with the President of the Republic when he takes an oath or when it is a special need to address it. No more options. What the Rules of Procedure says -- at the invitation of the president they can attend, it's just about being there, and it's not about this part, it's about that top part. They can attend on the balcony and that is the right you have provided for your amendments to the Rules of Procedure. When one of these real civil defenders, those who control law enforcement, from the court and from the prosecution, is resolved, the proposal must come from someone else. Here you go to one third of the total number of MPs. Of course, in the version of the SRS, this committee is being thrown out. The question is, why one third? Because at least a third of the total number of Members is in some way a constitutional category. That's exactly the number of MPs who can ask for an extraordinary session, but all this stuff I've told falls into the water. It is possible for one third of the MPs to propose a resolution of the citizens' protectors and for the majority to find that they do not put it on the agenda at all. We have this situation when it comes to, say, a proposal by the Constitution of a prescribed number of MPs, I think it was 20, to vote mistrust with the government and a clear provision says within what time it should be put on the agenda. What's it worth, when the National Assembly votes on the agenda and says it won't put it on the agenda, which happened a few months ago, and the turkey pick doesn't work. So they're free of the written provision. This bill of law really has that problem. He should look like something, he should have some weight, he should have a proper number of members, but what to put in those members. And that's why this is going, he stepped in, he didn't take the job, he took the oath, he didn't take the oath, and, among other things, this kind of complicated election procedure and the release of the protecters of the citizens and his deputies. So I suggest you adopt this amendment to Article 12, because if you push this bill, although I doubt it will eventually get a majority in the National Assembly, because it is filled with these problems, primarily constitutional nature, but if you're pushing it, then push some text that has some meaning. If you're pushing these texts, with such pointless attitudes, believe it doesn't lead to anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19552	We're undermining again because of the promoter. So there's a Article 87. He has not been changed to the Rules of Procedure, where there is an option to allow them to participate. That's what Mr. Krasic said, the difference between two places of presence. One place of attendance is a balcony observer and the other is special sessions about the resolution, about the oaths, when they are called to attend and then sit in the front row. So, apart from the proposing representatives, but they can't fully participate in the work, they can only address themselves, but the Rules of Procedures do not provide for this situation now. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Faith of Radet. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19553	The amendment to Article 13 is the logical consequence of the amendments that I have submitted to Article 4 on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. Proposal for a Law on the Protector of Citizens. My colleagues spoke, since I had obligations in the municipality of Zemun, so I was not in a position to personally explain that amendment to Article 4, but I have no doubt that my colleagues did it exactly as I would have been if I had been there. As for Article 13, the bill states that the Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee, can decide on the suspension of civil protectionists, and then says in what cases. The proposal is to delete this "on a proposal from the board". He's referring to the Constitutional Affairs Committee. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article 44, says the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is considering a proposal to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Listen further, the proposal to amend the Constitution of the SRJ and the statutes of autonomous provinces in the process of granting consent to the National Assembly, the motion to initiate the procedure for impeachment of the President of the Republic, as well as the principles of application of the Constitution. Therefore, there is no indication in this article that the obligation provided for in Article 13 may arise. It's a bill of law. Before I move on to this argument of the Government, which is why the amendment has not been accepted, I specifically asked you to pay particular attention to this Rules of Procedure and to this obligation of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and, among other things, to propose a change to the Constitution of the SRJ. So, in this year, you've changed the Rules of Procedure and you've left a provision like this, you've only rushed to change what you've provided just to remove the quorum and not have to sit in this room while it's being debated. That was the essence of it. That the rights of the Members of the people to do their work be maximum, and this is what you have missed. The Government of the Republic of Serbia says that the amendment to Article 13 is rejected for the same reasons given for the amendment to Article 4. This argument shows the provision of Article 4(1). The draft law is of a material and legal nature and is the subject of legal regulation, as it proposes to regulate the issue of the authorised promoter for the selection of the citizens' protectors, which is one of the phases in the election process, in addition to the other provisions of this article. As a lawyer, I expect or expected that, in parallel with this bill, the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, if we will, here's how the Government has instructed us to do so in accordance with the law. Then I don't understand why this government proposal stands when the law comes into force. Why isn't it standing since it's been applied? Then we'll have a problem here with this Rules of Procedure, we won't be able to propose to the law, or the committee to propose that protection to the citizens. And this is how you left some, God forbid, long deadlines, as if you had no intention of implementing this law, which wouldn't be a unique case, because we're used to this government proposing, and the congregation majority is adopting laws that can't actually be applied. That's one problem. The second, you say, in part 2, other than that, the amendment cannot be accepted and since the amendment proposed by the amendment to paragraph 1 is not consistently implemented through the other provisions of Article 4 of the Assembly Committee in charge of constitutional issues. The draft law, in paragraphs 2, 4 and 5, and the adoption of amendments would make the legislative text incomprehensible. This part is a very bold explanation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because I assume, Minister, that you in the Government have heard of a legal-technical order. If you would accept and the majority would accept the amendment to Article 4(1), then it would be logical and normal for the legal and technical order of that whole member to be carried out and to comply with what the Government accepts. So, you know that well, of course, but it's about you, your seemingly serious explanation, convincing the MPs that you're right, but I keep telling you, every fellow you represent here the government, and now I'm going to let you, don't let yourself underestimate that luxury of underestimating the MPs, underestimating our profession, knowledge, experience, intelligence. We are doing this job seriously, and we will not let the government of the Republic of Serbia try to make fools of us. In Article 13, you say, the Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee, and I suggested that on a proposal from the Committee, it should be deleted, but if it were deleted and if it were left, anyway. What is further said in this article, the Assembly may decide on the suspension of citizens' protectors: in the event that a detention is imposed against him; fine, normal; if convicted of a criminal offence which makes him inadequate for performing his duties, and the verdict has not become legal; acceptable. But now there's a pearl. The assembly will abolish the suspension decision as soon as the reasons for the suspension cease. What do you suppose this is? What do you suggest? That for some reason, you will propose to protect the citizens someone who will be held in custody, and then when the detention goes through, you will remove the suspension and he will be the protector of the citizens again. Or if he's convicted of a crime that makes him inadequate to perform, which means, when that punishment expires, he will again be the protector of the citizens. This is really amazing. You should not have suggested something like this, if you want to introduce that institution into Serbia, and I see that on this side they expect from the citizens' protectors, in fact they know they're not expecting it, but they're trying to convince the citizens of Serbia, now that they're getting a protector of citizens, no one else in Serbia can have any more problems. No longer will the citizens of Serbia, when this assembly majority, on the proposal of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, introduces a protector of citizens whom you, of course, will pay fatly to pay, and then no one will be left without a job, no one's factory will be shut down, no one's company will be criminally privatised. No more pay cuts, no more pensions, no more pick-up. Mr. Loncar, gentlemen of the assembly majority, if you could explain to the citizens of Serbia and confirm that what I am at the expense of the government, of course, and not at the expense of the citizens, was a joke, then you could say that you are really taking care of the citizens of Serbia and that the government is the real protector of Serbian citizens. This way, by satisfying some directives, introducing new institutions that are only a burden on Serbia's citizens' pockets, believe me, you will not do anything right. I know and understand your obligations to various international institutions, but why you are falling, running and passing these laws that don't essentially mean anything, when in 10, 15, 20 years, if there is a EU at all and if we are admitted to this EU, then we will only be obliged to apply this law, which you are passing today, by emergency procedure, in an emergency session, as if all problems in Serbia are solved if a civil defender is elected in Serbia. So we basically said what we had on this law. I don't see anything revolutionary here, nothing epochal, one high-paying clerk and unlimited powers in Serbia anymore. Satisfied one more need of one of the coalition partners. Here, and today, we read in the paper that these 9+9, or already as they are called, have charged their support to the government, published in the Official Messenger, who is the chairman of the Management Board of the Action Fund, etc. So we're neither crazy nor Serbian citizens are crazy. We know perfectly how you trade, how you play with the fate of this people. Gentlemen, this nation does not forget. Be assured that the consequences of your relationship with Serbian citizens will soon be felt by the elections that are inevitable, regardless of how you boast that you are a stable government and that you will survive until the end of the term of office. Make sure you don't. When it comes to this amendment, I suggest you accept it, Mr. Lonchar. It won't affect the essence of the law, but it will certainly give a better text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19554	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Thank you for making this public. I have already drawn attention to the Legislative Committee that a change of name has been missed in determining the consolidated text in three places. Of course, it's not an MP's job, but you would have submitted the amendment to the Rules of Procedure, but there was no need. So it will be corrected by the Legislative Committee. In the meantime, it was printed for all of us. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19555	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment of Ms. Verice Radete, where she asks that "on a proposal from the Committee" from Article 13, be deleted, so that Article 1 reads, "The Parliament can decide on the suspension of the citizens' protectors". Why delete this "on a proposal from the Committee"? One particular example. We, on the Committee on Culture and Information, have launched, MPs of the SRS, a question of responsibility, let's say, for that thief who was created in the museum when twenty-six million euros were stolen from the exhibition. Because of the board majority, the board didn't do anything. The same way the Committee can have a certain majority the next day and not allow the Assembly to declare the suspension of citizens' protectors, even in these cases - if it is against them. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when the detention of any employee is ordered, his company starts to suspend and ends when he gets out of custody. "If he's convicted of a crime that makes him inadequate... "Who do you think you're bringing to the post of Protector of the Citizens? There's only one photo missing and missing from the criminal records. You can tell exactly who it is. Let's put the picture on. Further: "The assembly will abolish the suspension decision as soon as the reasons for the suspension cease". The suspension decision cannot be lifted if it is convicted of a criminal offence. It can be if he's in custody, because innocent people go into custody, especially when "Sabre" comes in, when all your "democratic assets" come in, when 13,000 are arrested, processed 40, sentenced 10, and 12,500 people were arrested and arrested on criminal charges. For the protection of citizens, for those who need to protect the rights of citizens, this cannot apply. If he's convicted of any crime, he can't be the protector of the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if the minister doesn't come out after me and says this amendment is being adopted, I ask you to vote for the adoption of this amendment in the day of voting, and at least to put a little of this law in order, please, and at least make it applicable.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19556	Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Krstin. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Marko Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19557	Ladies and gentlemen, this is another amendment that improves the text. I really couldn't share the opinion of my fellow MPs who had just spoken, that it was a law that was inconsistencies, which has no role and which, in their opinion, would not be applied. Also, I couldn't share their opinion that it was a law upon which we were forced, instructed, forced, etc. I don't think any institution dealing with the protection of citizens' rights is excess. Such an institution is no excess anywhere in the world. I want to tell you that modern trends in the development of state administration suggest an increase in the number of institutions and procedures protecting citizens' rights. It is this government that is working to increase the number of institutions that will deal with the protection of citizens' rights by one such law. It's such an institution. I must tell you that the institution of protection of citizens, the truth under a different name, in Vojvodina has shown its justification. I think it's the same in municipalities where the institution exists. It's one of the reasons that suggests that it has a purpose to pass this law. As far as the amendments are concerned, it is an amendment relating to the powers granted by the protector to his deputy. Here in Article 16 we say "determination". I think it's far more precise and more meaningful to say "authority", so it's about one authority in writing, where you can see who's authorized, which is what his powers are. Without one of these provisions, this norm is not precise enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19558	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Justice and Administration has submitted to Article 17 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, a representative of the proposing accepts this amendment, so I find that it has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19559	I realized the president of the National Assembly that all amendments to article 17 were accepted, so I wasn't really prepared to defend the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19560	Only if you withdraw the amendment, then it'll be okay, since attitude 2 is different.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19561	I don't feel like falling back today, so I'm going to explain this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 17, in which I say that the civil protection officer has been authorised to act "at the request of the citizens". The difference between members and amendments is only this "at the request of citizens" controls respect for citizens' rights, etc. In other words, the Protector of the Citizens will, on my request, control the protection of my rights, respect for my rights, etc. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in each municipal public prosecutor's office, a few dozen criminal charges are sent daily, at least two-thirds of them absolutely unbulful -- cursing each other's mother and writing him a criminal report. Will the public defender go in that case to control any criminal charges? Only when a citizen's rights and freedoms are at stake and address the protection of citizens is the right of the protection of citizens to reconsider the validity of decisions, the procedures that his rights are at risk and then to start protecting his rights. In Part Two, I asked that the words "and regularity" be deleted. Let me read that part: "The Protector of the Citizens is authorized to control the legality and regularity of the work of the Authority of the Administration." The explanation of why the amendment is not adopted says: "Amendment is not accepted because the formulation of Article 1 of Article 17, as proposed by the amendment, neglects that the civil protection officer is not only acting on behalf of citizens, but also in accordance with Article 24(1)", and we will read that Article 24(1), so that citizens, in the name of whom we adopt and work here, will be made clear. Article 24(1) says, "Citizens' protectors are initiating proceedings on the citizens' complaint or on their own initiative." What if there's no complaints from the citizens, or any of those criminal charges I've been talking about. What if there isn't an initiative by the public's protectors? What you can see from all these characteristics, I know that the public defender, if we think of him, and it seems to me that Mr Krasic has already seen three or four personal descriptions. Of those four, I see at least three who will care about citizens' rights. They will come here to collect fat wages, to do work if they are forced by the government, etc. Therefore, I propose that my amendment be adopted, that the protection of citizens have the right to control the respect of citizens' rights, etc., at the request of citizens and that this "legality" from this member be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19562	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Yes, MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19563	The Committee, it is difficult to say that in percentages, but quite adopted this amendment, so, with its amendment, what is proposed by attitude 1, he proposed, but did not accept the change of attitude of 2st MP Momir Markovic. I think maybe we all made one mistake here, both the government and we who wrote the amendment and the board. I would remind you that attitude 1: "The Protector of the Citizens is authorized to, at the request of the citizens, control." I don't think he's authorized to control, but he's authorized by this law to initiate some kind of procedure to determine whether or not citizens' rights are respected. I don't think it's just a harsh and inaccurate word "control." That's my opinion. Of course, all this other stuff fits, it's not a problem. The word "controls" comes from the spirit itself and the text of this law. Whoever wrote probably had a problem with what word to use to explain this. Basically, there is still an internal procedure here on the relation of the protector of citizens, his professional service, the use of these powers to contact certain authorities, with citizens etc. It's not some court case, it's not even some administrative procedure. It is a simple correspondence that is necessary for this civil protection officer to only conclude whether or not the rights of citizens have been violated, whether the authorities of the administration exceed some powers. That's why, and I understand by the gestures you're doing, you accept that if the government intervenes with some amendment, it could be arranged. And this is left with respect to point 2. The government insists on this word "work law". When you control the legality of an organ's work, you control everything. There is no wholeness, no justification, no anything else, there is only legality, starting with the principles on which a procedure is based, all the way to those shops. We now use words in terminology that have never been used before, except in the last two or three years: validity, regularity; so they introduce some new principles, like good administrations, etc. That's a little confusing. We have rather elaborate legal views, for 30 - 40 years, concerning administrations, have not changed, and there is no great need for these attitudes to change. I think there's some kind of confusion going on here. Under the idea of the correctness of everything and everything can be interpreted, if not the protector, and when the ordinary citizen reads the text of the law, he can think that he needs to challenge the correctness of an act, so far as he's pushed. I think these stereotype terms are acceptable, and before practice exists, we all know what that means: effective, fast, urgent, at less cost, with respect for personality dignity, etc. Somehow, we define the protection of citizens, because we're starting from the presummation that the state is disrupting, endangering human rights. Who's doing this? First of all, executive power. Now you see how all this is happening with us, we should rightly consider passing a law on the protection of the state, because we have a threatened state here. She doesn't have human rights, but this country has some dignity, too. I get the impression that we lack one such law in the legal system, because we have both the prosecutor and these other organs, but they're weakly protecting the state. We have a state on the ice. Anyone can blow it. Everyone can attack her, so whether they argued within the same party because of some function or because of abuse of function, whether they are attacking each other, whether Montenegro - Serbia, whether the military - police, police - the BIA - are no longer important relations, NGOs - state. Today everyone can say anything about the state, poison the biggest vomit, the biggest lie. We almost had a chance to watch, the country was shaking after that movie, Natasa Kandic - Trnovo, etc. Look on the Internet, you can tell it's a photo montage. Apparently, they were shot, and they're getting up. Who's publishing it? No one has any intention of announcing it. Natasa Kandic can come out and say that Tomislav Nikolic killed there, that he bloodied his hands etc., it's all shaking for five days, until Srebrenica passes and marking some date, and afterwards it's the situation: "No, I didn't mean it," and this, and that. She can say that the president of the National Assembly seems to remind those who committed war crimes there. The President of the Assembly must remain silent because NGOs will... It's like the state doesn't have its dignity. This country must have its dignity. This country must, in some ways, root out a lie. He must have rooted out the abuse of rights. He must have rooted out human rights. All this must be rooted out. It's impossible to settle if we have a wary state. If anyone can go against the state, say anything and everything. Look at how perfiduous it is. A wall fell there at a construction site, saying the government of the Republic of Serbia's wall had fallen, the government of the Republic of Serbia's building. Now we've started to share the walls as to whether or not the congregations of the city, government, military or not I know who they are. These are the perfidious things that go through, and this is our public opinion just to freak out. Like this, Karic's wife is pregnant or not pregnant. That's the big news in politics. We have to have a protector of the state. Why? The country's protector protects the rights of more individuals than a specific letter would address a citizen as a protector of citizens. We have a real threat to the state. These Soros, they harass those who go for their allowance abroad, they'd do anything for a living. They're harassing. I'm drawing your attention to that. You put yourself in a position to keep Article 17 like this and be this formula "controls." Don't God, let most of them fall here, or some other one might go crazy, so Natasa Kandic is chosen for it, or Vojin Dimitrijevic or Biserko, or Milic, and not to order everything, it's a character gallery. It's a paradigm of the Belgrade circle of two. When they start squared to interpret every letter, every word -- what then? You remember how Biljana Kovacevic-Vucho interpreted it. She and Batic are all representatives. Anyone who wants to spit on the state should turn to them and get wooden lawyers right away from the moment. There's a story about two months. The judge says what we've done can't be applied, the lawsuit is dropped, she says everything's fine, it's just a lack of our law because we don't have that member. Then what's illegal? How could she give us a lecture for two months about how something was wrong? And there's this famous lustration. Can anyone figure out what the lustration masters did? You do not want to root out from the legal traffic of our country a law that is unconstitutional. Sima Radulovic is also a member of the Lustration Commission. He's in Nis, I don't know what he's doing or how he's doing. Some Supreme Court judges were screened, and in the first version the judges of the Constitutional Court wanted, and the law was falsified. Biserka Zivkovic changed him. She cheated on that woman who was the secretary of the Assembly to transfer it from the Constitutional Court to the Supreme Court, as was done in the Law on the financing of political parties. Everyone knows that: the service, the Assembly, all political parties. You know it's pure forgeries. That's worse than Bodrum and Thessaloniki. Now, for me to give a lecture on lustration by someone to whom Biserka Zivkovic or Zoran Zivkovic belongs. Explain to me, please, only that a man turns upside down, takes off his skin, turns upside down, curses himself, comes back and closes himself. That's what's going on with us. Dear Mr. Lonchar, think about this idea, to make a law on the protector of the state that would protect us from such manipulators who are able to turn everything around. They're even able to interpret this. I know you don't mind with a bill like this. I also know that you know that, in the end, we have some constitutional and some other reasons that we point out when we oppose the adoption of one of these laws. You've seen our amendments, we're aware that you have a majority, you're probably having some pressure from abroad to get through this. We've tried to make amendments as bearable as possible, acceptablely legal-technically, legally-logically. All of our amendments are in this sense that as much of this law as possible, let me say -- in a way, even though we constantly point out that there is no constitutional basis for such a thing. We will always point out that there is no constitutional basis to pass such a law. Think about it, this word "control," the word "legality," directed by great human rights experts. Get a book from Theodore Meron, he wrote a book about human rights. He interprets the problems of humanitarian law in the works "Hamlet" etc. (President: Time.) ) But there is not a single sentence on the human rights of Palestinians in the territory of Israel, and 52 resolutions condemn Israel for violating human rights, a binding resolution. A great expert has not devoted a single sentence to what is happening on his doorstep. But that's why he found Hamlet, all the works of Shakespeare, considered etc. A great expert! Let me remind you, this great expert in 1998 represented America when the Roman Statute was passed. He was against the Roman Statute.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19564	Time, Mr. Krassic. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The People's MP Snježana Lakicevic- Stojacic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19565	The Rules of Procedure implies that MPs cannot speak from the post, not even the chairman of the Republic of Parliament. So I warn of the violation of the Rules of Procedure by Mr Krasic. The Democratic Party has submitted an amendment to Article 17 in order to ensure that institutions that already exist at local level, by setting up citizens' protectors of the Law on Local Self-Government, as well as the Law on the Determination of Certain Jurisdictions of the AP Vojvodina, agreeing with the Decisions establishing the Ombudsman in the APV, so that there is no fact that there would be no conflict of jurisdiction, i.e. the fact that the possibilities and responsibilities for the work of the province's Ombudsman are exhausted. We have proposed by amendment, I will have to quote, that Article 2 is added after Article 1, which states: "Organ AP is responsible for the issue of the protection of the rights of citizens, within the limits of the competences established in the territory of the AP, is controlled by infringements of the rights of citizens committed by acts, actions or by the inaction of the regional or municipal authorities of the administration, bodies and organisations whose founder is the AP or local self-government, if it is a violation of the republican laws, other regulations and general acts". I will remind you that the Law on the Protector of Citizens provides that the Protector of Citizens intervenes whenever the Republic regulations are violated, and the Ombudsman at the level of the Region, or the Protector of Citizens, or whoever of these three terms you want to use at the site, are acting against those acts that are not factually in violation of the Republic's rules. All infringements of those rules that are not at the republic's level, which could be applied by the province's ombudsman or by the local public's protector, are also de facto related to republican regulations. So in this way, by moving jurisdiction against the authority that adopts a certain act, we would be exhausted to a large extent the jurisdiction of the province's Ombudsman today. I would remind you that the circuit ombudsman and his jurisdiction are specified in Article 1. Decisions on the province ombudsman and concerns the control of the work of the regional and municipal authorities of the administration. Even when they violate the provisions of republican law in the exercise of their regular powers. We think that, in this way, in fact by defining competences in relation to bodies applying republican regulations, what we have committed, among other things, to the EU's accession resolution, which was adopted here in the Republic of Parliament on 13.10.192004, when we said that we would share the principles, values and objectives on which the EU is based. One of these principles and objectives is decentralisation. decentralisation implies the possibility of protecting certain rights that citizens in the Republic of Serbia at different levels in fact. Of course, the Law on the Protector of Citizens provides for the possibility of setting up an office for the protection of citizens and in places where it is estimated to be necessary, but in this way we are building a fact-finding body, which would have one place where protection of citizens would be directly managed and would not respect the powers already laid down in the regulations adopted in the Republic Parliament, given to the Ombudsman at the regional or local level. I simply think that decentralisation, which is the principle of organising a government that leads to the best way of protecting the rights of citizens, this law on the protection of citizens being factually and completely adjudicated, to actuate the decisions that we have made by accepting EU standards, by signing or accepting the EU's resolution on EU accession, and again, rather than to decentralisation, which would strengthen and enable fuller and more complete protection of competences at all levels, we are coming back to a retrograde process leading to centralised, which has never proved good, especially in countries in transition, with such a thin experience in democracy, such as Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19566	Thank you. The People's MP Nemanja Sarovic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19567	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I haven't called to support this amendment. The position of the SRS is exactly the opposite, but it is also the clear intensity of the Democratic Party, which constantly endures such amendments, regardless of the law and the scope of life. I hope so, and I'm sure this will not be accepted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Indeed, among those who are in coalition with Joseph Kas and Bogoljub Karic, it is no wonder that they have such suggestions. Of course, this has nothing to do with either the EU, or the EU recommendations, or decentralisation. This has nothing to do with trying to separate the APV. It's clear what this is all about. It is clear that you want to set aside the territory of Vojvodina from Serbia, so any regulation that it is, regardless of what is concrete on the agenda and what we are discussing. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll remind you, if we're going to go to decentralisation, then we know which system it's going through. He can't decentralisation just for Vojvodina. If we are to bring the Ombudsman institution down to the municipal level, I agree, so that every municipality in Serbia has its own Ombudsman, it does not have to be republican. If you want us to have a single state, if you want that Ombudsman to have some authority, then I don't see why it would be any difference when he will act in the New Sad, when he will act in the King, Vranj or anywhere else. The next thing you know, in your presentation, you said that this applies to violations of the regulations that the AP makes. One of your main arguments is that in this way the Republic Parliament would potentially compromise the fact that the province has passed those regulations. I have to tell you that you're going to have to learn what legal act in the state has to have a championship. The highest legal act in the country is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Then the republican regulations come. As much as you would like it if we had to comply with the regulations that are passed in Vojvodina, that is simply not the case, and you will have to, whether or not, get used to harmonising the regulations in Vojvodina with the regulations that are laid down for the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which is still unique.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19568	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19569	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we started working on the amendments to this bill this morning, I thought we were discussing a bill on the protector of all Serbian citizens. From the explanation of the amendments' applicants, I realized that we are actually discussing the proposal for a law on the protection of citizens of Serbia, Serbia without provinces, the Belgrade Pashalu, I do not know what this is all about. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if we adopt this law everywhere, the Protector of the Citizens will be able to act. If we adopt the amendment, the citizens' protector, if he finds out that some rights are on the other side of the Sava, let's say my rights in Batajnica will protect the citizens' protector, my neighbor from Nova Paz will have to report to the Ombudsman who will tell him what his findings are, so the Ombudsman will protect the rights of my neighbor. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, why the applicant, or the parliamentary group, or political party, did not force this Ombudsman, and they are in power, together with Canko, Karic in Vojvodina, to raise the question when they opened the national offices in every village in Vojvodina, the people's offices in which the people he appointed, authorized and paid Gilas, not their own money, but those he took from RTS for his services but for the people's money. There is an office in every village that, since there are few jobs for them, deals with party affairs. That's the thing. That's the whole thing. That's the whole point. I suggest that this amendment be rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19570	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19571	I was misread. It is not the province's Ombudsman Bushman, but the protecter of citizens, who is protecting the rules and caring for the protection of human rights in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, according to the Law on the transfer of certain responsibilities to the AP Vojvodina, which was adopted by the Republic Assembly. So it's also about Republic law. The law on local self-government is a republican regulation and this law we are discussing today is also a republican regulation. In order for a single legal system to exist, it is necessary that the republican regulations adopted by the same congregation be in harmony with one another. These are basic legal rules. In that direction, the amendment that we have submitted today also applies. It is not the province's Ombudsman's doing something that is independent and completely independent of the citizens' protectors, but the Ombudsman is required to exercise jurisdiction, i.e. the tasks that the Ombudsman's decision to establish in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, where AP Vojvodina's authorities apply certain republican laws, in order to relieve, in some respect, the obligation that the protection of citizens with all four intended deputies would have, because it is the principle of decentralisation, where certain powers can be delegated and are effectively delegated to lower levels of government, therefore, the province and local self-government. These are the positive regulations that are in force today in the Republic of Serbia. By the end of 2004, the province's ombudsman, since its founding, had seduced more than 330 cases. In 2005, the office in Novi Sad seduced over 270 cases. There are offices in Pancheva and Subotica that also work on performances. No one from the DS parliamentary group, anyone living in Vojvodina, and the DS voter, has ever thought to think that this or any regulation would work on the decommissioning of the Republic of Serbia. This demagogue story, this daily-political story, which unfortunately we have to listen to from day to day for this assembly speaker, is something that does not serve anyone's honor, which is simply not based on any DS activity, which is a party that advocates the integrity of the Republic of Serbia, but also for recognition of the Constitution of the intended autonomy of Vojvodina. Since the positive regulations that exist and adopted by this parliament envision the possibility and give authority to the AP Vojvodina to establish the Ombudsman by its own decision, it did. Instead of all of us now using experiences together that the province's Ombudsman has, unlike the law we're talking about today, predicting that within the five deputies he has, there are deputies who specialize only in certain human rights violations, such as gender equality, protection of national minorities and children's rights, which is an even higher level of ombusman organisation, to use these positive regulations, we constantly have a negative connotation, which is the general characteristics of people who live and work in the Republic of Serbia. Let's recognize if anything has ever been done positive? Let's try to get some positive experience out of what was done in the previous period in the Republic of Serbia. He's got a negative, of course. But I guess we're all here together to try to move forward. I will also replicate some colleagues' earlier presentations for this speaker, the DS supports some of the laws adopted in this House, because none of us want Serbia to touch the bottom again, to roll back in the mud, as we roll as some of you exercise power in this country, but we want Serbia to move forward. So, what is right and worth DS will always support, and what is wrong and what we have the remark, of course we will make a remark, amendments to submit and point out some things that we think we can improve, so that in this Parliament we can again pass laws that should serve Serbian citizens, who should serve Serbia, who has no right to stand, must go forward and, unfortunately, with a destructive story that does not lead to anything, we cannot go that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19572	Thank you. Mr. Markovic's word is according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19573	Now I'm quite surprised and upset when the lady said that they were rolling in the mud at the time of our reign. What did you people do, if you know? Next, he says, we don't want to listen to daily-political stories every day. That's why they're daily-political stories, every day, and Sunday-political once a week, monthly-political once a month, but back to the amendment. What will the Ombudsman do as a pyramid with all his offices, and besides, the people's offices of the same political organization, from the same political party? You'll trip each other there, because in every village you have two offices. Furthermore, if he is the patron of the citizens, again as a pyramid, a man who has a whole structure under him in Serbia, so the public defender has his own office in Nis, then his people will do the job, but in Novi Sad he will have to report to this ombudsman of yours. The law was "boxed" in a political extortion, when the government had to succumb to that pressure, so it was voted a year before we discuss the civil protectionist and Serbia. Therefore, if this is a privilege, the citizens of Vojvodina were much more privileged, so they had 330 objections, 330 applications. Well, how much of it have you solved? How many people who spoke to your Ombudsman have solved their problems in Vojvodina. What's going to happen in the election, whose voters are, we're going to see that now that the elections are coming.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19574	Thank you. Anyone else on this amendment want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by Ksenija Milivojevic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. An MP named Milan Stevovic submitted to the 18th amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 18th amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19575	Here, my colleagues are now informing me that in the same text, the same amendment has also been submitted by the MP group G17 plus, and that it has been accepted, so I am pleased, if in the same text, to be accepted, and it would be logical to accept the amendment of the DS parliamentary group if the texts are identical. In this regard, I appeal to the Committee, if the texts are identical, I do not see that there is a real difference between which parliamentary group is submitting the amendment. It was certainly important to us that the Ombudsman undertakes to deliver the report to the Assembly and that the Assembly also be an authority that will have insight into the work of the citizens' protectors and that both the Assembly and the competent committees are obliged to consider initiatives submitted by the citizens' protector. In that sense, I welcome the decision to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19576	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milka Silaev. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment is MP Marko Krstin. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 21st amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Snježana Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19577	Just for a little while, we suggested that, in Article 21(2), the words "unless it is contrary to the law" should be deleted. There is one reason for this amendment, which is that this provision would create the possibility for the Authority of the Administration to abuse discretionary rights regarding preventing access to premises and making data available of importance to the civil protection proceedings. In fact, the protection of citizens must have much wider powers than they were given to this member. We believe that there should be no limit to the protection of citizens, if they want to access certain data or access certain rooms, there is any possibility that someone will deny it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19578	Anyone else on this amendment want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. People's MP Zoran Krasic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19579	Article 23. The bill reads - the president of the Republic, president and members of the government, the President of the Assembly, the President of the Constitutional Court and officials in the bodies of the state administration are required to accept the protection of citizens at his request within 15 days at the latest. That's the whole text of Article 23. There's no sanctions in the law. If a norm is prescribed to have any obligation or mandatory conduct, and there is no sanction, then such a norm should not exist. I don't know if we can legislate something beyond the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Why would the President of the Republic be obliged to see a civil protection officer within 15 days? How can we impose an obligation on the President of the Republic beyond what is written in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? How can we impose an obligation on the Government beyond what is attributed to the Constitution, the Law on Government and other regulations? A team before this patron of the citizens is appointed as a government and a non-governmental representative. He is some, apparently, independent state body, but everything he writes, it's one letter with a tax mark. No sanctions, no warrant, no opportunity to undo something, no possibility of bringing constitutional legal acts, no declarative legal acts, no change. He doesn't have any authority. He can recommend, he can get angry. He can scream, he can conference for the press and say something he thinks, and that's where it ends. Imagine the burden of the President of the Republic who has the National Office, where they're trying to act as an Ombudsman, and when this law passes, so now he has to receive this patron of the citizens within 15 days. Why is that a legal norm? Probably that citizen's protector in your direction has to keep in touch with the very people you have listed here, but the contacts of a thematic nature regarding some initiative, some proposal, opinions on some general legal act, opinions on the state of and the protection of human rights in the country, where these individuals, and these bodies and these officials probably not only respond, but also need to know some other opinion, so in the end, that the public should know that one of them received the protection of citizens. It can't be a norm. We can't put good manners and culture into norms. It's normal, when a man meets, to say good day or good morning to him, but it doesn't say that in any law. Approximately, that's the level of what's required by this member of the law. Now you can see the senselessness of this three-step protection of a three-step protector. This one that now exists in Vojvodina according to some regulation, I don't believe that it controls only respect for human rights regarding the province's rules, but it spreads little of its powers because it has a kind of intertwination. And the one given as some possibility of the Law on Local Self-Government probably doesn't look at human rights just from the viewpoint of the statutes of the municipality and the decisions made by the congregation of the municipality, because it is theoretically possible that a violation of human rights might occur, but it originally stems from a higher level of government than a republican significance. If you wanted an organizational connection between this protector and something on the ground, so on the ground it's called, say, for that county or for that community, it does, but this is really pointless. You have this one that you propose by the bill, which controls the minority's respect for human rights, you said Republic regulations, general acts and other acts, but is meant by republican regulations. We cannot share now, if human rights are violated in the republic, in the province, at the local level. Human rights are in our Constitution, including that of your Charter of Human and Minority rights, given as one declaration at the general level. They're universal rights. This is really pointless what we have here. Every level of government because of some degree of autonomy, and what's now wrongly said is decentralisation, and this centralised and decentralisation thing has nothing to do with it, because it's not the state government, but people don't know, they say anything. As you can see, it's impossible that there are three different levels of three officials who could be competent to do anything in these things. Article 23, I'm absolutely sure that we laws can't go beyond what the Constitution says, regardless of this "debted to receive" to talk, etc. It can't go into legal norm. I'm sure when you pass this law to one of your majority, all those listed in Article 23 will want to have contact with that man, because it's not popular if they refuse to contact. It is a natural thing, but it is very dangerous when it is put into question as a legal provision, because it is essentially an excess of the powers that the National Assembly has, because this is how we question those provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia concerning the President of the Republic, which concern the Parliament, which concerns the Government, so why not tell the ministries. Next, the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court, its legal position, powers, jurisdiction, are governed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and by a special law. They have their own rules of procedure, they have other acts. They have some regulations and some provisions about some co-operation, but something like this can't stand. You see, in a procedure conducted in front of the Constitutional Court, if you go to a public hearing, so the party is called and it does not come, there are no adverse consequences. There's no obligation to come. Or, he says, "The president and members of the government are obliged to accept the protection of citizens at his request no later than 15 days." Why is such a provision not put in place, for example, with the trustee for information, why is it not placed with some other institutions? It's not put in for the simple reason it can't. Why wasn't she put at the RadioDifusing Council? "The Prime Minister is required to receive the President of the Radio-Deffusion Council within 15 days of his request." You have totally illegal advice on fighting corruption, which is led by this woman, Verica Barac. You have something in your institutions that is advisory, etc., a litter that is against the government and you suffer it. However, not just you, and these previous ones have suffered it and later it has been proven that it has nothing to do with what they write in the statement. I don't know what you're screaming at, I speak very objectively. I'm saying you're growing a goo in the middle of nowhere. It doesn't have any power. There's some counseling, but when they start moving on TV, when they create a picture, when it's scattered, there's no such thing as a story. Why didn't you write "they're due in 15 days"? It doesn't exist, it's not a legal or constitutional category, let's let the government decide -- let's gather and help us when we control it, etc. I used these examples not to point to it, to the public and how well he knows it, but to point to the senselessness of Article 23. In this formulation, it means that the National Assembly exceeds the authority it has.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19580	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Krstin. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Markovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19581	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, this amendment applies only to a time-limit within which a complaint can be filed with the Ombudsman. I believe that this time-limit for the violation of the rights of citizens is too short and that it is necessary to extend it to two years. I mean it because it's something that citizens themselves do. Citizens, by the nature of things, do not have to be familiar and will not be familiar with the way this institution works for a long time. You also know the state of the matter in our citizenship. It'd be better if that deadline was two years old. Simply, someone will miss the deadline of one year for who knows the reasons that can happen, and if they did leave it for two years, they would be sure that any citizen who gets a right violation, if he thinks he has to do so, will use his right to appeal to the Ombudsman, so I don't see anything wrong with accepting this amendment. It can only be good, that is, for those citizens who miss the deadline for any reason, and yet I repeat that it is quite possible to miss the deadline, the legal procedures are complicated, the procedural right is complicated, while they end the whole process, while they realize that they ended it the way they ended it, while they try any other way to solve their problem, those years will pass the hours of work. So my proposal is just to extend the deadline to two years and thus allow every citizen to exercise this right.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19582	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Marko Krstin. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, with a correction, and we have the Minister's word to accept the amendment, with correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with the correction, is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 26th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19583	Dear Vice-President, honourable Members of Parliament, the proposal for a law on the protection of citizens is a very bad law, and it has no basis in the Constitution, so the SRS, in favour of the purity of the law, for the adoption of clean laws that will be applicable, which will be clear and precise, has submitted a large number of amendments, as you have seen, so in that sense I have submitted an amendment to Article 26 by proposing that Article 26's position be amended, so the words "from the violation of the rights of citizens" would be deleted. Therefore, this member regulates the way in which complaints can be filed, as well as deadlines in which complaints can be filed. They are, according to the bill, a year since the violation of the right of citizens, which I have just proposed to delete, which would specify the deadline for filing complaints, in fact, would avoid inaccuracy in the calculation of deadlines. Our prominent processors, like Professor Rajević, taught us at the university and said, "If you lose the deadline, you lose everything." If this stays this way, in this law of yours, this inaccuracy, the citizens will lose their deadlines and lose everything, and they've lost everything with you anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19584	Thank you, Mr. Koprivica. The word was received by MP Zoran Krasic. After that, MP Milan Markovic will speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19585	With this amendment, we wanted to specify what is said in Section 2: "The complaint can be filed no later than one year from the violation of the right of citizens". How does he know there's been a violation of the rights of citizens? How does a protector know that, but how does a citizen who filed a complaint know that? He doesn't know that. He suspects he's been hurt. For this reason, we have asked that this "infringement of citizens" be eliminated and that the deadline of one year be calculated from the last act, i.e. the failure of the authority of the administration in connection with the violation of the rights of citizens. I'm surprised the government didn't accept it, because what we've suggested is exudes legal-technical meaning and can be defended legally. What's written here is inaccurate. I would draw attention, given that there was an amendment here that was proposed to change for a year by standing "two years". Since it is the right of a citizen to address a protector, if he considers it to be an individual legal act, above all by one of the authorities of the administration – although here I must tell you that you have included here the institutions for the execution of criminal sanctions, because the provision of 22 says "The Institute for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions", but that essentially belongs to this, it is a kind of specific administration within the Department of Justice. So, 99% of this applies to management – so the citizen is unhappy with some individual legal act, as a rule they are final administrative acts, or by some action by the competent state authority, which is taken, whether it is followed by an appropriate act or not. A citizen in the beginning cannot be sure that this individual legal act is a manifestation of a violation of one of the rights guaranteed by the Constitution. He suspects it. He's running some proper procedure. According to what you wrote here, it turns out that the citizen who is in the process has no need to address the public defender, because he is told that he has filed a request, that the request has been rejected or that a solution has been made under official duty. The citizen believes that this solution is at risk of some right, so he is told that he has the right to appeal, and he may also have the right to conduct a administrative dispute. There's no possibility of a civil protection officer getting involved. What can he control? Whether there was a silence of the administration, whether when a citizen came to the counter he looked at him there vehemently, whether when he asked to complete the course or to question there, this one said it was out of the question, that he was being rudely treated. It is some kind of violation of citizens' rights, but that's not what you meant when you proposed a law like this. We are now in a situation that, on the one hand, we have a legal profession request, and why not tell both the Constitution and all our regulations, that all procedures are quickly, effectively terminated, that citizens effectively exercise the rights that belong to them, to quickly reach a final and judicial state. That requires the principle of legal certainty. The deadline of a year, two, three or five is pointless. The deadline is pointless because the protection of citizens is not a mandatory party that could do something in the process, possibly if some deadlines for emergency remedies are not missed, may warn, inform, hint, ask the prosecutor or possibly draw attention to the fact that there is some basis for repeating the proceedings, but again to give advice to a party whose right is violated. This deadline is really pointless from the point of view of actions and acts that can be taken by the public's protector. It shows that you can't prejudge when you're setting a deadline by saying "in one year's time of law violation". No one knows if a violation of law has been committed. When I file an application and someone refuses me, I'm absolutely certain I've been wronged. I'm writing a complaint, and they're refusing my appeal. I'm saying they hate me. It's possible that everything will be in accordance with the law then. So since the violation of rights was committed, if this protector of yours concludes that something like this has happened. This is the story of a law that creates an object that has no specific weight, that has nothing to commit to, let's face it, it can act politically, but it's not a political function. He can act media, and I'm already here about that fact reserved. I even think that it can operate in the opposite direction, because based on what he said about some specific case, 90% of the others, when they hear what it's about, they'll interpret it in their own way, and they'll start talking. We had this debate today. If all the citizens of the Vojvodina were to address the Ombudsman, if all the citizens of Serbia were to address the National Office, tell me that someone would apply these provisions on deadlines, and not only this law but any law that exists in our legal system. That's why I said once from this pay phone that we shouldn't spread any assurances that something was going to happen. Nothing epochal will happen. You heard, in 2004, the Ombudsman in Vojvodina had two or three thousand items, so that was a lot. So Pajtic broke, and now it's 200 and some cases, which means Pajtic is still breaking. You see, and those who advocate this come into a situation that some objects are being handled against them, and maybe not. Two hundred people think they've violated their right, and maybe that's not the case. Since this is the last amendment to the Serbian Radical Party, I call on MPs to, in the voting day, when there is a vote in principle, be against such a bill. If you vote in principle on such a bill, accept the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party to make this law look like something. If you don't accept these amendments, believe me, there's been a waste of power for nothing, because we've brought something that's worthless paper.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19586	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. God forbid it's the last amendment. There's plenty of time. Mrs. Radeta will talk about this amendment. Prior to that, MP Milan Markovic will speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19587	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come to the attention of this amendment because, through Article 26, I would also like to point out the need to accept our previously reasoned amendments. One refers to the deadline for filing a complaint. We ask for that deadline to be extended to two years. The second refers to what qualifications should be met by the protecter of citizens. What's really controversial about Article 26? Dispute is that attitude 2 really brings confusion when the deadline begins. It's very simple. Where a person considers that there has been a breach of his right, he has addressed the Authority of the Administration in a certain request, the Authority of the Administration shall, in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, have an appropriate period of 30 or 60 days to respond to that request. He believes that by that answer his right has been violated. It's a moment of violation of law. This would be the case under Article 26. What's he doing? If there was silence from the administration, he declares a complaint, and the complaint goes to the second-degree body. If there was no silence from the administration, he declares a complaint and she goes to the second-degree body. If the first-degree body, in accordance with the powers it has under the General Administrative Procedure Act, which the other first-degree bodies do not have, does not change their own decision. So that's what distinguishes the general administrative procedure law from the previous law on litigation. If the first-degree authority again takes, in accordance with its authority from the ZUP, to act on the complaint, he has the right to do so, and this one is not satisfied again, it again declares the complaint. The complaint goes to the second-degree body. The second-degree body, of course, requires a certain amount of time to decide on that complaint. He makes his decision, it returns to the party, the party is not satisfied, is initiating administrative dispute, the administrative dispute is instigating a lawsuit; while the administrative dispute is resolved, it is time again. Put it back, if it cancels, say, a previous solution. These again bring the same solution, this one again points to the suit; the lawsuit goes to administrative dispute, in a dispute full of jurisdiction they solve the case. When all this is settled, the party says - I've been violated by law. In fact, the whole procedure was initiated, in our practice, about two to two and a half years earlier, when his injury was done. It's clear to me, and I think we all know here, that the intensity of the promoter was that the period of one year begins to run from the last act and failure of the competent authority. I understand that. But that is why you should have accepted this amendment and deleted the moment of the injury committed, because the moment of the injury is actually the initial moment when someone initiated the procedure, regularly, which is foreseen by Article 25. So, before filing a complaint, the applicant is obliged to try to protect his rights in an appropriate legal procedure. In that sense, I support this amendment, but I point to certain illogicalities that will exist and that, especially for our citizens who do not understand each other, because not everyone can understand everyone, who will exist when people want to exercise their right to the Ombudsman. That is why I insist that you accept my amendment regarding the extension of the deadline. I purposely described one course, one administrative procedure, one administrative case, one request from a citizen who can go to first-degree, second-degree twice, can go to a administrative dispute, can be returned, can go to a administrative dispute full of jurisdiction. What I'm talking about here is basically a matter that is well known to professors of constitutional law, lawyers who have ties to this matter, not to those who deal with any other matter, because lawyers deal in different matter, the law is very broad. It is mostly known to all those who passed the judicial exam. A large number of lawyers who were dealing with other matter, copyright or other things, here I am, not at all familiar, although I have passed a judicial exam and I've been working as a lawyer, but I don't know that stuff. I also trust my colleagues with lawyers, no one knows everything, so they're not familiar with these things. That is why I believe and repeat - the Ombudsman must possess the highest degree of knowledge of his knowledge in practice. So, I don't mean the title - Dr. Science, etc. It's a scientific call. But in practice, the most a lawyer in Serbia can possess is a passed judicial exam. It is a reflection of his work in practice and it is the basis of his future work in practice. That's why I'm going back to that amendment of mine. I've only told you one procedure that can happen, whether this administrative act is final, whether it's justifiable, whether it's executed. When is he final, executive, when is he just? It's a question that 90% of lawyers who don't deal with administrative law don't know the answer. The Ombudsman himself will not know whether the final administrative act is being implemented or whether a judicial administrative act is being implemented. Of course, the administrative act was executed when it was final. He doesn't have to be just enough to get it done. Of course, it's not that anyway. Generally, this is a complicated matter that doesn't deal with it. We who have been here for four years, and we've already forgotten a lot. It's a complicated matter. You will see that the Ombudsman will have problems unless he has this knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19588	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19589	Of course, it is necessary to accept the amendment of Bozidar Koprivica, because what is really pointless is what is written in Article 26(2), which is that the complaint can be filed no later than one year from the violation of the right of citizens, i.e. from the last act, that is, the failure of the Authority to comply with the infringement of the rights of citizens. counterparts Koprivica and Krasic explained what this means and why it is necessary to delete the words "from the violation of the rights of citizens". The government has said why it does not accept the amendment of Bozidar Koprivica. He says, "The amendment is not accepted, given that a period of one year from the violation of the right of citizens is a certain type of subjective term, in which citizens will most often address the protection of citizens, which is the simplest to calculate from the public's point of view. "This is just an amazing explanation. What does "simply to count from the public's point of view" mean? Does the government think that citizens are stupid, that they can only count when they have a round figure at their disposal in law? This is really amazing. I don't know how much you're going to insult the intelligence of Serbian citizens, gentlemen from the government, and there are no government representatives, and there are no MPs' intelligence. So I volunteered to say what I said specifically about the amendment and because this is the last amendment, Predreze Markovic, to the proposal for a law on the protection of citizens submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. That remark of yours, God forbid--the last one, wasn't appropriate when you made your remarks to your colleague Krasic. This law on the protection of citizens, i.e. a proposal on the protection of citizens, would be good if you accepted the amendments submitted by the SRS, so much as courteous to this text of the law. It would be even better if you didn't vote for this law, because this law gives us something we already have in Serbia. I ask you if both this law and who can, say, in Serbia to protect Serbian citizens from unbulful statements, say Serbian President Boris Tadic, published on his website this weekend? Imagine, Boris Tadic goes from September 13th to September 15th to America, writes on his site, and is open to business talks and conclusion. Imagine, Serbia's president taking "a throat in strawberries" to walk America and on the site informs who wants to talk to him, to take an interview, to close a deal, he is ready to do so. From something like that, we can't be protected by this law, and neither can the National Office of Boris Tadic. We of the SRS have been saying how much this patron of citizens reminds us of the People's Office. At the end of the debate, I got the impression that we could put a sign of equality between citizens' protectors and the National Office. Why? Both categories are unconstitutional. Both categories cost Serbian citizens. Both categories cannot help anyone in Serbia. One and the other will promote someone, and the one from the People's Office. This will be the case with some civil protection, who needs to personally present his business as well, and what's some kind of protection is just a form. Another interesting thing, we in the SRS daily receive copies of letters from the National Office to Serbian citizens. You know what the People's Office and Gilas say to them. He says, "Dear fellow citizen, thank you for speaking to the People's Office for your trouble, but we can't help you." If we want to promote another such institution by this law, then all but faith to those who will vote for this. We Serbian radicals, of course, will not.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19590	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Do any other parliamentary groups want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Krstin. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. If there is no discussion and if the Committee does not accept in the meantime, that will be voted on. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legal, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic submitted together to the 34th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Ljiljana Nestorovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19591	The amendment that we have submitted to Article 34, which speaks of the co-operation of citizens' protectors with other bodies, has been submitted because we believe that one, according to us, is quite a failure. In fact, Article 34 speaks of the obligation of the protection of citizens to co-operate with the competent services of the President of the Republic and the Assembly, so with the National Office and the Committee on Presentations and Appeals in the Serbian Assembly, which do not have a clear authority or foothold in the law, and I assume that the legislator's intrinsicity is that, at one point in time, this service, the National Office and the National Assembly Service are overgrown, i.e. they join with the protection of citizens, because everything else would not be appropriate, because now these services will be higher and especially hanging on the moment when this law on the protection of citizens really takes effect. However, this does not define a legal obligation for the public's protector to co-operate with the public's access to information. We have written an amendment -- after Article 2, point 3 is added, which reads: "The Protector of Citizens is working with the Commissioner for Public Information in order to achieve all those objectives set out in Article 2." In the nature of the business, the trustee has a large number of information on the work of the state administration authorities, particularly on abuses in the case of these authorities. It is logical for this information to be exchanged with the protection of citizens and to be a legal obligation. For example, a law that regulates trustees' work as a trustee's obligation found that it must report to the Assembly who chose it and issue an information manual on the work of state authorities. Also, Article 43 of that law found that all data from the national authorities on the work of those authorities were being pooled among the creditors, meaning that it had very significant information. Thus, we can conclude that it is absolutely not logical that all this information, which the trustee already has, is not available to the citizens' protector. That is why we propose to legally define the obligation to co-operate with the two institutions, i.e. those two institutions, because they are the only ones legally put directly into the protection of the citizens themselves. The answer we received from the legislator is that this amendment is rejected for the reason it is proposed, and it is reportedly not necessary to be in law, that the citizens' protector co-operates with other bodies, such as the Commission for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest or various other bodies that fight corruption. I don't think the proponent is right this time because the Commission just defines what the public function holder can't do, what he can't own. Only the Ombudsman, i.e. the protection of citizens and the Trustee deal directly with the legal protection of citizens against the abuse of state authorities. That is why we think it would be good, because of the efficiency of exactly protecting citizens, to legally define the obligation to co-operate with citizens' protectors and trustees for information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19592	Thank you, Mrs. Nestorovic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Ksenija Milivojevic submitted to Article 38 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 40a be added after article 40a.The government accepted the amendment, the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes that this amendment is legally possible. If the Committee does not sit, as is the case with the amendment to Article 29, it will be voted on in the voting day. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarian Milan Markovic submitted to Article 42 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 42nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Mezo Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Ljiljana Nestorovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19593	Article 42 says that the civil protection officer will not act on the cases pending the entry into force of this law, i.e. that citizens can begin to appeal to the protection of citizens only when he officially enters office. We suggest that this article 42 is completely different, i.e. that its contents be as follows: "The protection of citizens will act on the complaints of citizens when the professional service of the protection of citizens is established." Article 42. The draft law is not logical, given Article 26(2). The bill, which found that the complaint could be filed no later than one year on the infringement of the right of the citizen. It is not clear what kind of interference it is that the civil protection officer is acting on complaints from citizens about the case that occurred before the law came into force, with the period of one year not running out. The amendment is proposed to be a Article 42. The draft law will be amended by introducing another quite realistic provision, so that the public defender cannot act on complaints until he has a professional service that collects evidence, examines the situation, applies material law and eventually ends the administrative part of the job. And we have drawn this conclusion from the practice that we have based on the application of the Law on Access to Public Information, i.e. a bad experience with the Trustee on the availability of public information. What happened was, as soon as he was elected, the citizens were going to cover him with a variety of complaints and requests to solve certain cases. But for eight whole months, the trustee not only had his own professional service, he had no space to work in, no elemental means to do anything. So, there was an impression, even though I'm sure it wasn't the intensity of the government or this congregation when we chose the trustee, it was simply that we were doing it and that our wish was never to liven up that service. In this vacuum, until conditions were created for the work of such a service, which is very similar to this service that will be necessary for the protection of citizens, it was impossible for the Trustee to solve any case, and in public there have been a variety of controversy on this issue. Also, I have to say that the prescribed legal deadline is very long from the moment we pass this law until the moment when the protecter of citizens will be able to work at all. Here's what the proposed law looks like. Therefore, it is prescribed that the law enters into force, of course, like any other, eight days after the day of publication in the Official Messenger, that within six months of the entry into force of the law, the protector of citizens is elected. So, only six months after this law came into force. That, within three months of the entry into service, the Civilian Protector will propose his deputy, who will be elected by the Assembly within the next two months and that the Civilian Protector will bring in a general act on the organisation of the Service within 60 days of the adoption of the Act. All together, even if we ignore the provisions on proposing deputies, it takes even 10 months to create real conditions for the protection of citizens to be able to resolve any complaints by citizens. That is why we believe that nothing can be understood when it comes to some law that regulates certain things and that it must be all precise, because practice has shown us that if certain things are understood, then it usually happens that they are difficult to achieve, and that is also a problem for citizens, who probably expect many of them, so that this service is coming to life as soon as possible. The problem is also for those of us who choose the protection of citizens and for the government who proposes the entire institution as a newspaper in this society, because unless we specify certain things with this law, it will create an impression that everything is a dead letter on paper and that we do not actually want one institution to live in real and real life.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19594	Thank you, Mrs. Nestorovic. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19595	As you can see, he wasn't the last. I think it's best for the government to delete this Article 42. Of course, if he doesn't delete the whole law first. Why? Now you explain to me from the government what was the purpose of this law? To form someone who's called Protector of Citizens. If he's his own purpose, then we don't need the law. According to Article 42, they will not act on the cases pending the entry into force of this law, so it is important for you to have a quasi-organ, not citizens' rights. Today rights are being violated, and yesterday rights were being violated, and a year and two years ago, rights were being violated. For two or three years, someone has been in the process of exercising his right. Here, the SRS has three rulings of the Supreme Court of Serbia, where everything is annulled, is imposed on the MUP, not so directly, but according to legal views, we are required to return that jeep stolen by these, Mihajlovic and Stojadin Jovanovic. Three Supreme Court rulings can't force the M.O.P. to do anything by law. Now you tell me who to talk to, because our rights are violated. It's been established that rights have been violated. Three convictions like doors. So, if you're throwing away the weight and giving meaning to Periæ who's supposed to be the patron of the citizens, then 42 can stay. If you are giving universal protection to human rights, then you do not need a Article 42, because it is understood that on the day of entry into force of this law, on the day of the election of protectors of citizens, it has the authority to act. When that injury was done absolutely doesn't matter, because if we were to interpret it like this, then we should wait half a year for him to get the first item. It takes half a year to wait for him to get his first class. So, you are first in line with Peric, who should be the protector of citizens, not universal rights, universal protection of citizens and bans on the violation and threat of freedom, rights and responsibilities of people and citizens. That's the whole point. I interpret this amendment first and foremost as an attempt to resolve something that is illogical in the law. If someone thinks they have some retroactivity, there's no retroactiveity at all, it's not a matter of retroactiveity at all. The question is that someone suspects that he was violated yesterday by some right. With what? Probably some final administrative act. In two months, that protector is elected. Of course, he is addressed by a man and points to a case that took place before the law came into force. What's his basis for that? Well, his constitution is basic. The Constitution prohibits discrimination and the obligation of all to respect the Constitution and the Law. So you don't need a member of 42 at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-13-0.u19596	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Anyone else want to go by the amendment? (No) Since we have completed the search of the bill, in particular, does the representative of the proponent Dr Zoran Lončar, the Minister of State Administration and the local self-government want the final word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly held a debate on all points of the agenda on the basis of Article 85(3), honourable Members of the People's Parliament have held a debate on all points of the agenda. I hereby appoint Wednesday, September 14th, as the day for voting on all points of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Ten o'clock begins the day of work and then we'll join the vote. Thank you for your responsibility. Bon appétit. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we continue the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. On the basis of official records of the presence of the MPs, 114 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. The application of the electronic voting system has established that 87 MPs are present in the hall and we can start working day. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Goran Knezevic, Goran Svilanovic, Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, Zoran Alimpic, Anita Beretic and Dobrica Jankovic. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search on all points of the agenda of this session, we will move on to a decision. The vote will be at 10:30. Before that, I would ask the heads of all parliamentary groups to come to the meeting at the President's Office to agree, because of the announced adoption of the amendment, agreed by all the parliamentary groups, on advertising, on the amendment to Article 87. Since the proposing representative did not accept this amendment at the session itself, he will be voted upon by the announcement. I ask all the heads of parliament to hold a meeting, to agree, because afterwards it will be necessary to interrupt the session, in order to organise the adoption of amendments by the Committee on Trade and Tourism, or the Legislative Committee, so that the adoption of this amendment does not disrupt existing laws and that we do not have procedural problems. Thank you. I repeat, the vote is at 10:30.
