ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21423	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 88 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than a third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that it has been prevented from attending the sittings of MP Radojko Obradovic. We're continuing our work on the agenda. We move to the 11th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on SPOLJNOTRGOVINS BUSINESS (extend in particular) The National MP Vitomir Plužarević submitted to Article 34 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21424	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have filed before the Serbian Radical Party an amendment to Article 34 of this law and we want to improve this law. It is good to think about external trade transactions and business, the framework which this law will approach Europe is just the beginning of these activities. I think the other part that will allow this business to start needs to be stimulated, which is production. When the level of production starts to accumulate with its products and the mass of the product exerts pressure on the external trade market, then this law also makes sense and is able to introduce, implement and revive. I'm under the impression that there's a terrible pressure on our domestic production to make it the lowest and worst. Why? Well, so we can just be a consumer society and be addicted to who knows what kind of goods we're being offered. We have not yet felt that this foreign capital enters our country, and you remember well how you promised that borders would be open, that we would travel across Europe, that Europe would play round in Serbia, that we would study at European universities and who knows everything you promised us, but there's nothing. You know why it's like that. These Europeans are afraid of these authorities and count, when we as a Serbian Radical Party come to power, we are the only security for them, we are principled with such businessmen and with such people can also make contracts and agreements that their capital will fertilise and our workers will hire. They are afraid of politicians who, by their behavior, lead to insecure and insecure promises. Just remember the latest events around this famous IMF. You know that Mr Dinkic left the negotiations in anger and went supposedly to Japan to establish, like, a similar comment that relates to this law. Foreign trade must be based on quality, and this quality produces power, and we don't have such power; you know what our authority is like – a subjective one. You have spent more paper and television shows to extradite our citizens to The Hague than to invest that money in some, for example, world packages for our agricultural products that we would easily and quickly transport to world markets and thus raise agricultural production and the standard of our producers. And then this law would make sense and it could be commented. We know that the existing law also carries out various abuses. They're famous, and you know them from the government, because mostly foreign trade defenses are run by tycoons, and they're your associates and they're involved in foreign trade transactions. This article 34 regulates the dumping system. This is a lower price than the normal value of this commodity. Then there is chaos, and then domestic goods suffer damage, and the measures for importing such goods are anti-dumping duties. This article is so difficult to understand and express in an economic dictionary, for example. Anti-dumping and compensatory duties. Article 34(4) following point 1) adds a new point, which reads – at the price of domestic goods produced and sold at the same stage of production on the territory of the Republic of Serbia in the same period of time, or. The existing point 2) becomes point 3. The adoption of this amendment would more precisely determine the normal value of the goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21425	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21426	Of course, we, too, have tried to draw attention to some of the things that are happening on our market, from which we should defend ourselves by law as a set of objective norms that protect our market and business activities in our country. For starters, I have to tell you, reading this gives me the impression that you've forgotten one part of the dumping that's occurring in us, with tragic consequences, and the state is a silent observer of something that's happening. I'll remind you what this is all about. We're going to take this famous sugar affair. We can produce 380,000 tons of sugar every year, and at some point these were far larger quantities. Our needs are, for the safety of the food industry, about 320,000 tons. Given the fact that Western Europe is too rich for that sugar, that they are working on the quota system, they are interested in exporting their sugar. Of course, they always export it at some price, because the very fact of exports they are running to make a difference in price from the European budget structures, where they are not losing anything, but rather earning money. Then that sugar comes to us at the price that competes with our sugar. It's cheaper than sugar from our production. It's been a case for years, so a ton can be 250 dollars, even though the real price is 400 and something in Western Europe. Here it comes with an incomparably lower price and directly competes with our sugar producers. The state can't watch that. Formal-legal it's not dumping. Why isn't it dumping? This is all done in accordance with EU rules. Almost every member of you begins with the rules of the World Trade Organisation and EU rules. We tend, as you say, to those integrations and those structures. We cannot defend our market with anti-dumping measures against our goal. It doesn't make sense. Serbia is chasing to enter Europe as soon as possible and is now being protected by the introduction of this safeguard measure. I may have made a mistake, I don't know if it's $250 or if it's another price; there's a big price difference. Take any other product, this measure is characteristic, first of all, of that product where the rinfu state is very much represented, a large quantity of goods, although there are other products. Since you're going here with some terms of what a normal price is, you should practically enter the price structure that appears in the customs declaration. You need to enter the complete structure so you can see which one is purchased, which is ex-costs, which are all taxes, transportation, how much it costs for us, so you can compare it with similar goods of our production, and see if anything appears, etc. What I'm saying is that anti-dumping protection is a business that lasts 365 days a year. If you want to prescribe a proper fee for some balancing, so as not to create a new monopoly, then you must continuously follow the price of this goods in the environment on the world market. However, it appears here, in some cases, and stock exchanges, why don't you say so, where the other rules apply. This area of anti-dumping will gain and gain more and more every day in importance when it comes to our market. It wasn't so pronounced before, which is because of sanctions, which is because of structural changes in our economy, the economy, but every day it gets more and more relevant. I would draw your attention to another type of dumping which is somewhat covered by the Antimonopoly Act, these are contracts on a permanent long-term production, trade and other forms of co-operation, where there are also instruments to push under quotes for dumping prices, which is supposed to be a market price, that for at least five more years we will be in a position to take the price for most goods as a criterion when importing, and that, of course, we are comfortable with it being as cheap as possible. Because of this need to be as cheap as possible, we're going to go through a classic dumping that the state can spot, close its eyes, let go, can even celebrate. That's why I said 365 days should be a task to track the market in the environment. I took the opportunity to draw attention to the seriousness of these few members. Mr. Plužarevic's amendment, which you did not accept, which requires intervention in point 4. to add a new point, where alternative definitions are given for this concept – if the goods in item 2 are not sold on the country from which they are exported... This means that a legal person from Bulgaria is a formal-legal seller, and that goods are originating in Ukraine and that there is whether there is dumping, what is the normal price, as it comes to it, you gave points 1) and 2). We propose another point: "at the price of domestic goods produced and sold at the same stage of production on the territory of the Republic in approximately the same period of time, or". That's the point that we're bringing, we're just explaining what, I guess, was your intensity in attitude 4. You say, "at the same rate of production or sale, in the same period of time, exports to a third country whose market conditions... ". It's all the same. Here we only gave one moderation to help determine whether dumping occurred, since the country where the goods came from is not the country of origin. The Bulgarian firm owned some goods of Ukrainian origin and sold it to a company in Serbia. We're trying to help you define the situation - whether there's dumping or not. You say -- it's not that; it is, it's that situation. You have what happens all the time in practice with partners from Greece. I guess that's what you're informed about. When a certain amount of goods are reported that Greece is interested in, it first sends the predecessor who lifts here, raises the price, allegedly it's a great deal of interest, these are our tights from here, they provide the goods, then they raise the goods on the market, and then after a few months the Greeks call and say, we have this stuff much cheaper, so they sell us that stuff again. Minister, you must know that. The chaos is what happens in the outside store. It's a mess, where the rule of business in an outside store -- who, the cheaper I buy, the more expensive I sell. It's expressed in every store, especially in the outside. With these measures you've prescribed here, I'm warning you again, you have several large companies in this country that are going to make you such beautiful papers, from which you won't see dumping, because they have their sisters companies in the country of origin, so you're going to get a paper invoice with some price, etc. and he is the profit he planned to make in Serbia in Austria, and Serbia has paid. I just wanted to explain. These are those companies that are formed in the warehouses of some airports; businessman: purse, bow and mobile phone, such as Baby Popovic and others. (President: Time.) ) Nicely formed company, this company comes into possession of some goods, covers, no dumping, sells these goods here, some demand, etc. Formal-legislatively, he did not show any difference in price in invoices, but that difference in price he had primarily achieved, he achieved in Austria and moved somewhere else. (President: Time.) ) That's why I told you – protection from dumping is a business that lasts 365 days. These duties you are about to prescribe will probably be something that will be most variable in the legal order. Very often you will have to change, no matter how you determine the duties.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21427	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The word has Minister Parivodic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21428	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the amendment to Article 34. Article 34 shows that you who have submitted this amendment do not understand what dumping is. So now I'm going to give you a brief lecture on the subject. Therefore, the main thing is the following: the monopolistic price is the price resulting from an excessive market share of goods or services on a given relevant market. So when someone has a strong market position, they are able to impose a monopolies price, because there are no competing bidders who will knock down that price, and that price will be higher than the price that would be on the market where competition exists. That's why there's a competition law. The normal price is the one formed on the market where there is normal competition on the market, where there is freedom to enter the market itself and exit the market and there is a price that is normal, means production price, temporary costs and a corresponding profit. The dumped price is an ominous price. The idea of dumping is to break the price below the price that suits me, as a temporary situation, with the idea of pushing the competition out of the market, to ruin the competition, to destroy the domestic economy at those low prices, and then actually become a monopoliest, and then to pick up the price to make up for that dumping that I suffered for a certain time until I destroyed the competition. Therefore, when it is being examined whether there is dumping, we are actually wondering if it is selling below its economic reson, below its costs, and we are not wondering whether it is below the price of its competitors on the domestic market; the reason why it can be that it is more productive, that there are fewer employees, so that comparison with the price on the market is entirely irrelevant from the dumping aspect and therefore we have to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21429	Replica, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21430	Mr. Parivodić, at law school, you're giving a lecture from the bonds, but they didn't receive you there, so, if I recall correctly, you ran off to lawyers, it's an honor. Mr. Minister, you forgot one thing. It is also true that when producers and exporters from some countries are stimulated by the governments of those countries to export as much as possible, even at prices that may be some time below the cost of their cost. There are several businessmen here, people who run large businesses, who face these problems every day. I must tell you, Germany has in its economic policy stimulants for exporters, so in our former economic policy, in the former SFRY, especially for these areas where clearing was valid, we also had stimulants for exports, so the economic operators were racing who would export more to achieve the best subsidy than the state, from the budget. Here's an example: "South America," whether or not it was, "South America" is $3.999, I don't know if that's what it's called, and the director of "South America" was Lawrence Iglberger. Another example: the electronics industry, therefore, exported the washing machine factory to French washing machines in one period and sold to a French partner below cost. You're telling us now that someone with a conscious dumping wanted to win the market, become a monopoliest, so when they become monopolies to raise prices and compensate for all the loss they made while holding the dumping prices, and I'm just telling you about the situation that with dumping prices there's no harm, but also by the dumping price benefits. You have completely forgotten this variant, and it is increasingly present in the markets, so the state is stimulating its producers with its economic policy measures to export at all costs and to cover all the losses of that exports. And you have a budget item -- export incentives measures. It's so-called. The state stimulant of quasi-damping, that's the situation. That's why I just told you 365 days ago there's a fight against dumping. It becomes much more complicated than it used to be, but I immediately said – you will not be able to protect the market from dumping prices, because you have started a sentence in each member with recommendations, rules, European Union directives. They're preying on the market, to win the market, and our market has been conquered, flooded. But it doesn't matter that you gave it to the Germans, the French and the English, you gave it to the Slovenians. Mr. Minister, those are the ones that 55 soldiers without a rifle and weapons fired. "Merkator" originates from a country whose president said a few days ago -- Kosovo should be independent. Please, the store must be an integral part of some policy. The fact that Goran Svilanovic hired his wife is not the national interest of the Republic of Serbia. That's what I'm talking about. They come with dumping prices from all areas and I said at first – we are in such an economic position that we have to do something about it and keep it quiet. For what? Because of the fact that individual citizens are receiving.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21431	The word has Minister Parivodic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21432	Mr. Krasic, first of all, I quit on my own free will at law school, and secondly, I wouldn't talk about private life. Secondly, you've mixed dumping and compensatory duties. So when the company decides only to deal with the offer at low prices, it's dumping. When the country subsidises exports to be sold below the price, they are measures of subsidisation which are unrealistic and to which the state reacts to compensatory measures and that is another matter of dumping. The effect is similar, but there's a difference. That's the first one. Secondly, as for who deals with dumping in this country, Mrs. Ana Blagojevic will not every day ask every company in Serbia if she accidentally sells at lower prices, but rather they will report themselves. Therefore, whoever itches, he will scratch, he will inform the ministry that there are bids at dumping prices and then the ministry will conduct appropriate procedures. We're not doing it on official duty, we're doing it on the initiative of those to whom it's a problem. Finally, the European Union has very gentlemen treated Serbia in the sense that it has given us the right to export to them without customs duty in 2001 and is now the so-called measures. Autonomous trade preferences extended to another five years. So, from 2006 until the end of 2010, we can export without customs duty to the European Union, which we haven't done to them, thus demonstrating a gentleman's position and understanding the circumstances that our economy is in a difficult situation; also, that they can withstand the competition of our goods without customs protection. I don't know why you're so potent about why we cite the principles, that is, EU law as a guiding principle. Should we perhaps be talking about the North Korean law that would be our role model, or Cuba's or Nicaragua's right maybe? Are these legal systems or integration mechanisms that we need to enter, or Kazakhstan, or the EU? Do you offer any alternative to this country on the way to the EU? What alternative is this, and to what do you guarantee the success of this alternative to the citizens of this country?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21433	Before I move on to the next amendment, notice: the beginning of the 32nd session of the Committee on Culture and Information from 10:30 has been moved to 11.00 hours. A member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21434	Mr. Parivodic, since you say you're in diplomacy, you've made gaff; North Korea is our friendly country, Cuba is an extremely friendly state, Russia is a friendly state. Let me remind you, just so you know. And Nicaragua is our friendly country. We want to cooperate with all states. I don't know where you get this idea that we're making a difference. (Milan Parivodić, from the scene: I'm talking about inspiration. Why? If North Korea is an interesting market for America to sell radioactive matter and develop their nuclear program, why wouldn't it be interesting for us? Why wouldn't China be interesting to us? Ukraine, Belarus, Russia? If you ask me personally, I prefer economic co-operation with Russia. Why? All our industrial capacities have been built maltenes on the needs of the Soviet Union. While the Soviet Union was strong "The First Five-year-old" was working, people were receiving 15-16's salary; while the Soviet Union was a strong machine industry was building new plants, developing, electronic development, everything was in a better condition. Don't attack our friends. Don't spoil our friendships with Cuba or North Korea. (Milan Parivodić, from the place: I do not attack them. ) You can criticize certain countries that are friendly to us at your party meeting, but you do not have the right as a civil servant to criticise from this place and to talk about our friends abroad with disdain. You have no right to do so, so before that political wave that threw you all out into orbit was based on the fact that the previous government maintained friendly relations with Russia, so with Russia's insubordination, so with Libya, and you first got from Libya, there's still no check, someone stole it, a million and a half dollars. This Gaddafi you were attacking, so Tadic left a year ago to sell him planes. Don't attack. You're the Minister for a very subtle activity, all of you are friends. Why? To achieve the greatest benefit for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Using examples of the EU, discriminatory examples (and you can't answer, to say - if that's not the case), that's another problem. We have a complete analysis of how Hungary passed in the transition process: from one agricultural and food state that was giant came into food addiction; so we analyzed the situation in Poland – you probably know what the consequences are in Poland, and what the consequences best show you that they have returned to power by some who have been written off. Take care of it. Let me get back to this amendment. That dumping you've been talking about can probably be done by 50 concerts in Europe. You were talking about dumping that some goods producer can afford to win other markets. You forgot one thing: there's someone here who's an importer, and he's not the manufacturer of that product. It comes with documentation in which you claim that the goods that enter our country are sold for dumping. You're a little confused here, but it doesn't matter. Why don't you accept this amendment, Minister? What's wrong with that? The member has the title - the rate of anti-dumping duty; attitude 1 and 2, we don't touch it. We said now, that you would know when to collect those funds from that tax which is their purpose. I can agree with you that maybe it should be a special member. I completely agree with you, if that's why you refuse. What do we suggest? "The funds charged in accordance with the provisions of this article are the revenues of the Republic's budget and can be used exclusively to eliminate the consequences of dumping." So what you're saying is, what you get is budget revenue. You're sharing that opinion that it's budget revenue, I'm absolutely sure. We're still giving a closer purpose, that's the budget's income, that's what these funds are purposely aimed at solving the effects of dumping. To be honest with you, it's kind of like a leprechaun. If you refused this amendment because you think it should be a special member with a number, I can accept it, but I can't accept that you reject it and you just don't see that this is a good idea to introduce order. I'm telling you that this looks a little bit like some kind of levies that the EU introduces, although restrictively, it has to be said, because the rules of the World Trade Organisation say that it is possible to introduce levies, but it is necessary to go towards avoiding this kind of protection of the domestic market. But even when protection measures are imposed, it protects itself well. What's here to protect yourself with this tax that's being introduced? The market and our producers are protected. The entire customs protection exists to protect the market and domestic producers. There's not a single country on the globe that doesn't protect its production. Only in Serbia during Miroljub Labus, when he was minister of economic relations with abroad, the vice president and everything and everything was, our market was like an open can for the sardines; there you go, open all, the dwarves, the push as it arrives, everything passes. Every country protects its economy. Only Serbia says - no, we come to Europe, which is worse, so we introduce crisis headquarters, we take off production, then we fire, and then we get rescuers from abroad, some fuckers, regular fucks come to us with some names of companies in English, and when we cut through the contract, we see some of ours with some hidden money and become the nominal owners of the Republic of Serbia's economy. It can only go away if suspicions, sets and expectations are thrown out with citizens – you know, we have to endure this, because tomorrow we will be better off as we are in the EU. What's better in the EU? No one in the EU can do well unless they have their own production. If you have your own production, you'll always be fine, whether you're in the EU or not, whether you're here or there. There's no problem, we're heading towards the EU. The intensity, the dimension of our entry -- where our interests are, and where our interests aren't, where our damage is, what we do there. Find me one man, one boss in Serbia who would do something to set his house on fire. Who would do anything to hurt themselves? Now the government convinces us – we work and we know it's a shame, but tomorrow we'll get better. It'll be better tomorrow. According to Djindjic, in 2005, we import workers. Even so, Lalovic said some Chinese should be imported. How do we import workers when everyone loses their jobs? In 2000, it is 6.5 billion at the border. Where's that 6.5 billion? Not to talk about what they promised, they say – Kosovo is no longer a problem, just for us to come to power. Now they say they left us something. So, we are asking this amendment to ensure that these funds provided by this tax are the revenue of the budget, they have to be the revenue of the budget, that they be the means of removing the harmful consequences that can occur because of some dumping, and that the state does not feel or close its eyes. (Milan Parivodić, from the place: He can't. You got it. I can also tell you exactly where you close your eyes, so it goes away, because it puts a much greater interest in price stability, and because of this stability the price comes to us at the dumping prices of goods from abroad, and even questionable quality. Why are you forced to do that? You're forced to because you know the state of the house's average income. When you take the average income of the household, when you take fixed household costs, such as residential-communal services, electricity, water, etc., so when you see what's left for that consumption, then you say, we'll let it go. Not you, but this government, this government has already had a few traumatic situations in the case of imports of frozen halves, in order to bring down the prices of live cattle, to keep prices, so as not to grow, etc., so you have imported. Do you think that import was at some normal price? It was at dumping prices. I just want to warn you, these ideals of dumping, which you were just talking about, put it down a little bit, because there's something called economic policy, there's something called population income, there's something called market movement, there's something called market conditions, demand and demand. Many times the state has to close its eyes when it comes to dumping. You can go out now and say that's not true, that you're going to fight the dumping. I'm just warning you to be very careful when you declare something to be dumping or to use some other concepts for something that has the same consequences. The state stimulation of exports is -- the society said, you go with the dumping. You can call him something else, it's not a problem, but our market is being disrupted. All that we're talking about today or what we told you yesterday about this law is only a function of preserving our market, to keep it stable and to be, if possible, and prosperous, and not to be on your own. It is not necessary on our market to meet the needs of only some from abroad. I don't purposely use examples of American companies that are across the other, third-hands present on our market at dumping prices. Its kind of dumping is, Mr. Minister, when an American firm invests its capital in Taiwan and from Taiwan comes some goods here with some channels. (Milan Parivodić, from the scene: not true. It's not dumping, but it's disrupting our market. Of course they're competitive when printed panels produce one. Of course it's a monopoly. It's known that 70% of this electronics stuff is done in five places. I'm just warning that it's dangerous to install into the Ministry, Customs and Chamber of Commerce your understanding of the functioning of our market. It can be very dangerous. It's an example of what Labus did in 2001. It was all in the function of shutting down domestic production, to make it bad, so then came the famous Vlahovic with his Privatisation Act, and perhaps even more with the practice of applying the law, so now you have a situation: you bought the company and now free to fire. I'm afraid that our production capacities don't become warehouses and cargo stores that come from abroad, and here we'll continue to talk about a nice story - the World Trade Organisation, the EU. You can share the desire here with the citizens, but reality is cruel. Remember, every day a growing number of people wake up, get up and say, "I'm not going to work anymore, what am I supposed to do?" Minister, go to him and tell him that the EU is honey and milk, it's all flowing. With that story they came to France, so now they're down. He played a match there too. They made a mistake somewhere. Take care.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21435	The word has Minister Parivodic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21436	Every reasonable man in this country is aware of the difficulties that all citizens of the country face. That's what we totally agree on. The difference is that we have a solution, and those who are only criticising and not offering a solution will not create new jobs. So the way to hire people in this country is by injecting money from abroad. Our country collapsed in the 1990s. We're just broke. Since such a situation, the only way to get us up is through foreign investments that will open jobs and by affirming a private initiative in the economy, which is the only one that is productive and is able to create new jobs. That's the policy we stand for. To be successful in attracting foreign investment, we need political stability, economic stability. The European Union is a framework in which we can only achieve it properly, and quickly. That is why we are deeply convinced that this is the only productive opportunity to quickly rescue this country from the poverty that has hit us in the 1990s. That's the basic reason. You're talking about how electronics are produced in five countries in the world. In other words, you admit that there has been a process of globalisation, against whom you are so much. On one side you say – yes, electronics are produced in three or four places in the world, where the cheapest are produced. So you admit to the fact that the fact of globalisation, and globalisation, in fact, means the international division of global work, that the Chinese are the best in textiles and fine electronics, that the Germans are the best in complicated technologies, machines, etc. It's globalisation and it's a fact. In that situation, we can scream that we are unhappy, that is one alternative, and raise barriers around our country, which 148 countries do not raise, which are members of the World Trade Organisation. We can say that globalisation is an injustice, that globalisation is predominant over small, that globalisation creates poverty etc. and raise barriers around our country and remain a small poor country, without foreign investment, isolated, outside the EU, in a protest against globalisation. The alternative I offer your concept is that we find what we are best at in the world, what are the things where we have a parallel advantage and find our place in a new world of globalisation that is fact, not screaming, protesting something that is a fact and getting poorer. So that's my thinking, as an argument against your thinking. Now let's talk about what we're gathered for, and that's this amendment. The idea of compensation is good, in favour of those damaged by dumping or State subsidies to be destroyed. However, this amendment is inconclusive. How are we going to measure the height of that damage and when are we going to stop doing that damage? The problem is his incompetence. It's a good idea. The damage has happened, but we don't have as a state a mechanism to measure the amount of that damage that has happened to our businesses, to distribute and to know when to stop the damage, otherwise it will become a subsidy. It's just too complicated and difficult to implement. As a result, the alternative offered to companies that are being damaged is a civil appeal for damages based on a unfair match, and on this basis they can seek compensation for damages. So, I'd be happy if I could set up a compensation mechanism on this principle, but I have no way of doing it. That's the problem. The idea is good, but I don't think it's possible to implement it, and that's why I have to refuse this amendment. If you'd given me an amendment that's enforceable, which gives me the mechanism of how to do it, I would have accepted it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21437	Replica, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21438	It's not nice to talk about something I didn't say. I didn't even claim that we should make everything and be a closed market. I was just warning you, when it comes to dumping, to make sure that this and that kind of division of work happened globally, but you figured it out. However, to return to this amendment. I don't know what's wrong with this amendment: "The funds charged in accordance with the provisions of this article are the revenues of the Republic's budgets... "what is incompatible, is l′ not the income of the Republic, we are talking about, "... and can only be used to remove the effects resulting from dumping. "Is it possible to happen, let's say, in September of this year to determine by an analysis that, for example, it does not have to be true, but in order for the public to be clear I would take some goods as an example, that, for example, the import of meat in February of this year was at dumping prices. It's theoretically possible that this could happen. Then you say -- since we were charging some taxes, so that no market disturbance would occur, we're talking about these funds, they weren't specifically related to the goods, then you didn't know and then you came to know that you missed dumping. Is it not possible to say then in September – yes, in February it happened on the basis of market movements that this imports were at dumped prices; we achieved in this position so much and so much resources, give our producers some help. (Milan Parivodić, from the site: On what criteria? ) The criterion can be, of course, that our slaughterhouses suffered damage in February. It was given here in an objective way which is the purpose of these funds. You don't understand what this is about. The point of what we have proposed with the amendment is that in order to protect you from dumping, you have implemented some of the funds in the budget. That's where we agree. The point is that, after seeing the situation on the market, checking that something had gone off in February, the state did not react and a group of producers of certain goods suffered market damage. Why? She couldn't raise the price to cover the cost of production because there was dumping and to be present on the market they had to have maltenes, a loss on the substance. The group has the right to make some sort of compensation on the basis of the revenue from this fee. Who determines? The government determines that fee. Let him prescribe the criteria. Most likely the strongest slaughterhouse should get the most. I need you to set up some criteria. Our idea, Minister, is to make it a means of purpose, in the sense that when the state collects this anti-dumping duty, those funds are not invested in NGOs, in RTS, but return production and return to those who were damaged by dumping that you later came to. You don't understand our amendments at all. We didn't say we needed a lawsuit, we need a lawsuit, we need a court to rule. No, but we've given a political commitment, a direction to the government that the government is using that part of what it costs to solve the consequences. Ministers, the 37th member, you probably saw him, they're the same because they're in the capacity to protect the domestic market and domestic production. I hope you understand me now. So it's not the printed records, it's not Taiwan. It's our Serbian market, our producers. We want to limit the government to the anti-dumping funds it has provided not giving Dereta, not giving that BKV - Biljana Kovacevic-Vučo, not to give them to others, not to direct for certain things. When we get to the budget you'll see that there are no 30% more items in the budget, all the younger ones transferred to the current reserves, and then as Santa, they'll share. He wasn't even planning the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21439	The word has been given by MP Goran Jaksic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21440	Fellow MPs, apparently, that at least you can see from this discussion about this law, when this part is part of the protection, we all agree that the law provides for a good measure that the state wants to protect so-called. unfair exports of other countries to our country and that anti-dumping measures and compensation measures absolutely demonstrate the country's serious intention to, as well as other countries, protect its market from such a kind of competition that would endanger the most direct production in Serbia. As I understood from the discussion of the previous speaker, as well as former opposition speakers, we agree that this is a good measure and that this measure will obviously produce some results. We're about to do what we want as Members of the People, the People's Representatives, but they want those in whom it is directly reflected, and these are the producers. It's undeniable and I agree with the previous speaker. What is mentioned in the amendment is in principle a good proposal, but at the same time I agree with the minister that there is a technical problem in the realization of this proposal. To be realistic, there are people sitting here thinking with their heads. We will have a problem then how do we even the company's right to receive this type of state subsidy, because then there would be a situation that, because of the unsuitable full regulatory implementation of such a proposal, a particular company appears unfairly compared to others, and that is where we will all agree. There will be some companies that will say right away – why to get some slaughterhouse more, by which criteria, why not get us? You know for yourself, you who are in business, and I've been in the economy for a long time, you know the status and communication between the firm and the government, and I don't think that would be good or useful. I also completely agree, and the G17 plus had previously expressed its views, that money that would enter the budget in this way should only be used for the purposes that correspond to the inflow of that money, that is, to accelerate economic and economic development, and not for other purposes, and I believe that the Government would spend that money exactly as well. There will probably also be some sublegal act, which will sort out this problem, the budget law, etc. I have to react briefly to one part of the speech of the previous speaker. What is important in this law and in general the idea of joining the WTO is that we want to join the WTO, not to allow some products to be imported into this country, but above all, as other countries have done when they entered the WTO, that, by entering this largest trade community, we allow the most favourable, the larger exports from this country to other countries. It is not an accident, and we are all thinking logically, that 148 countries, out of 170 countries on the globe, have entered the WTO and I assume that they are all with the same goal as we are when we pass this law, when we do everything else that is related to the WTO -- we want to speed up exports from this country to other countries, but of course, in accordance with certain rules and procedures. Of course, such rules and procedures must exist when there are 148 countries in the WTO, in order not to endanger your country's activities, as we want to protect our economic market because of the measures of other countries, or their desire to export to our country. We want this law, as well as all other laws concerning entry into the WTO, to speed up the export of our products and the activity of all those companies which, mainly or generally, want to export their products and to direct them towards export as a very important thing, and we all agree that this is to the general economy of this country in the present and in the future. Also, I'd like to comment on a little bit of a suggestion here, a fact that's not a fact. Back in 2000, when Mr. Labus was the vice president of the federal government, or in charge of economic relations with abroad, but it doesn't matter his name, I'm talking about a minister who was in that place, not the name of a man who was also from that place, exactly what he was doing, who wanted what everyone wanted at that moment in our production, to speed up exports from the then Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to other countries. I don't want to get into who's to blame, but you know that exports were really narrowed down to some minimum measure then, and that the idea and desire of everyone here, especially those who deal with production and economy, has been speeding up exports to other countries since 2000. Therefore, we had to bring in appropriate measures to ensure exports from this country to some others, but at the same time respect for the rules that exist in world trade and allow certain imports. In order to be able to export to other countries, we had to allow a more liberal relationship between imports from other countries. Another thing that is not related to politics: in 2000 and 2001 there was very much corruption in export measures. These contingent measures are well-known to you. These contingent regimes, restrictions, are often abused by certain companies or individuals to open those markets by means of corruption, when the market is not automatically open and free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21441	Thank you. The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21442	What am I supposed to do when I'm grounded, so I have to read. It's a good thing I have to read our books, but I also have to read your authors' books. Your authors will be angry about what you said, the authors of the White Book, which has been published, as far as our entry into the European Union is concerned, but you and yours are going to solve it there. Mr. Jaksic, nothing here is disputed. Here is first of all the idea that the funds that are based on this security will be directed to our production, first and foremost to those where dumping was subsequently found to have taken place. How, to whom and how much to compensate, in what form, these are some technical questions. The criterion - the impact on a particular producer's market, as much as it was present with goods at some point, all of this, although I took the wrong example of meat and slaughterhouses, might even be a bad example, but I only took one kind of goods to be picturesque. You have a situation that as soon as the product appears at dumping prices on our market, it shuts down that production, if it's less capacity, or it reorients to another product etc. Basically, he's protected himself and doesn't suffer any damage. But what would the great one do? The large one is designed to produce the goods that are sold here on our market at dumped prices. You can find that with every product, because it appears on the market, in market movements. It's our idea, since it's the budget's revenue, it's meant to be spent. How? He should return to those who have suffered real damage. When I say realistically, according to the market situation, according to the market movement that was given at the time. You later have these provisions as to how dumping occurs, this protection, the previous examination, etc., should I not enter those provisions. But it's possible that you've all got some papers today, you're considering and determining dumping, because the goods don't follow paper day by day, you've got a deal, so until the goods arrive. At the time when the goods came, there was no dumping, the situation on our market changed or changed on the market. That's why I said it was a matter that 365 days had to be followed. If the state manages to stop the entry of the goods at the dumping prices in our country, it obliges them to pay the fee, and then make some revenue, then that income should return to our economy. The criteria are not problematic, they can be found. There have been criteria before, and you're a young man, so you don't know. At the same time, when pension funds were financed differently, each year the surplus income on expenditure was returned to businesses, to the development of telecommunications, to the development of micro-electronics, etc. It's a perfectly normal situation. At the beginning of the year, the state planned some revenue, realised or transferred those revenues, expenditures were lower than total revenues, and the surplus always returned to the economy. Of course, I don't plead to return that time and that way of thinking, because everything has changed in market conditions, but it's not a problem of mathematics. It's important here that our businessman knows how to protect him, that's what this is about. Minister, I think you'll also accept this amendment to Articles 35 and 37.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21443	The word has Minister Parivodic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21444	I will ask Mr. Jovan Jekic to explain after me the legal reasons why, unfortunately, we cannot accept this amendment that has a constructive content. I'd like to give you one of my impressions, which is that a great debate is being held in this assembly and that we are going in the direction of passing a great law. Thank you all for that. Thank you. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21445	According to the Rules of Procedure, I have no opportunity to give you my word, only you, Minister, can expose, if you wish to supplement, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21446	Simply, if we had accepted your amendment, which contains a quality idea, we would have entered into direct conflict with WTO contracts. That's why we're going to try to get to that effect in sublegal acts, not directly show the "red scarf" of the WTO, because that would be directly contrary and we'd have a problem in joining the WTO. I promise that in the sublaws we will try to achieve the effect that you have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21447	Mr. Krasic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21448	Minister, what you're saying is not true. That's what I'm going to do on two examples. Your colleague Bojan Dimitrijevic is leading the action, as was Franjo Tudjman – let's buy ours. Franjo Tudjman, while alive, led the action – let's buy ours, let's buy Croatian. That action gave them results. It's nothing funny. Bojan Dimitrijevic leads the action – let us buy ours, then he goes with those cheap videos; you know how to launder money wherever they reach. When we stepped it here in the anti-monopol code, when we said – give some advantage to the local, according to your intensity, he said – we can't, we can't talk like this, but we can't put it in the law like this. Another example: at the time of "Sablje" we are admitted to the Council of Europe. There is no greater violation of human rights than when she was "Sabbe," and we are received by the Council of Europe; so, a double archaic. Next, the Public Procurement Act. Last year, at the request of your party, it was changed that during public procurement, the domestic company had an advantage, even if up to 20% was more expensive than the foreign bidder. Is that what the law says? I didn't see the bombs drop because of that member. That member of the Public Procurement Act has not dropped bombs on Serbia for a year. So there is a possibility, Minister, but you should fight for the position and interest of Serbia, businessmen and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You should be able to fight it, not accept a new reality, like that clumsy counselor. He says I'm not a pessimist or an optimist, I'm a realist. What's reality? He says, "They want it and we have to accept it." That's not what we need. Show skill, convince, say – if you want to do this like this, the consequences are you and these, from such and such consequences, can be produced and that is how you fight for national interest. We want to make you patriots, those who guard our market, our economy and our citizens. So this can, this isn't the opposite, I have to tell you, because this is kind of an objective compensation for the damage that's happening on the market because it missed dumping. I don't plead retroactive. It's not destroying any legal principles, it's saying -- the funds are being raised, the revenues are budgets, and they're being spent on purpose -- where? To restore the economy. What's wrong with that? And this humble policy of the EU's prelude where it directs the levies? To their funds that are incentivizing their production. Isn't that right, Minister? That's right. The situation is that all who export to the EU are obliged to pay a tax or some levies, in fact, by EU producers. Why don't you apply their rule to us? (President: Time.) What's wrong with that? There's nothing wrong with that. Take a look at the purpose of the EU's overzealousness and protection measures. You'll see - it's going into production. Because food stability is provided on a long-term basis, they no longer have problems and can then develop industry. Large surpluses of their food products are exported worldwide and destroying the production of Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic and our countries. Let's protect ourselves, too. You're here to protect our interests, not theirs.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21449	Thank you. The word has Minister Parivodic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21450	You are appealing to me and other people in a similar position that we should fight for Serbia. There is a conceptual difference between you and us, which is what you think will convince them of your principles, which are different from their principles. So you believe that 148 countries of the world will convince you that they should give up their principles to accept your principles and expect you to fight them for some privilege over us. I believe otherwise. I think that if you want to talk to them and accept you as a talker, the only way is for us to agree on those principles that have been adopted by 148 countries. Then, as people who believe in the same principles, let's agree on a way that will be best for us. So the deal builds the house, not the fight. That's what I wanted to tell you. It's the principle of how I advocate Serbia in the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21451	The word is made by the MP Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Say, please, member. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21452	Why are you impatient, Mr. Mikhailovich? I didn't even get to the pay phone. Minister, are you a member of the Democratic Party? (Milan Parivodić, from the place: I did not. ) No, you still have "Serbia" as if you were from the Democratic Party, the color of the voice with Vlahovic's original hit. You have the same performance, the same way you talk to us. First, let me tell you, under Article 93, Mr. Mihailovic, who can take part in the debate; when the word is given to the minister, you have not broken it, but there are certain rules and in the communication of the minister with the MPs. Here, look how well I'll explain it to you, without giving a lecture. I don't want to have such an ironic performance as you, we who've been here for ten and over years, colleagues who came in the last term, some of them are shorter, we know what the National Assembly is, you're a guest here. First of all, colleagues Krasic, as one of the impressions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, cannot talk to a man who has studied every law to the smallest detail since the renewal of the multiparty in Serbia. You look ridiculous, not in our eyes, but in the eyes of the public who knows who Zoran Krasic is. On the other hand, you're here as guest minister, who answers wrongly to what's being said. Do you and your colleagues who have come out of the ruling structures follow what this amendment refers to? Do you realize that our intensity is that money is not going to Tadic's rolling stock, in yours, Dinkic, in specialized contracts, in special costs, but in dedicated production, which is systematically destroyed. The same way those predecessors in power spoke to us, so we had to... The people, in fact, wanted because they had no production, no factories sold, people fired from work; they drove them away and rejected that possibility. If you're already talking about what your position is, what our position is, we've never seen you in a favourable negotiating position before. I have in front of me this contract made by the EU Commission on the so-called Stabilisation and Association. A number of objections to both your sector and the internal trade sector, legislative activity, of course, would not blindly follow all of this, but we are prepared to take into account everything that could improve any integration process not only with the EU, but with the whole world. If you're talking about a specific thing here -- how the funds, or the revenue that comes back to the budget, should be spent, then don't deal with the thesis and tell us what would happen if it were. Let us think about it, when Mr. Zoran Krasic is a minister, when we are in power. Be assured that because we know what we want and because we do not wander into legislative activity and behaviour at all, but we have a clear goal, we have precise ideology, guidelines, we cannot come into a stalemate position where your government is very often headed by all of Kostunica; therefore, the tap in place, therefore there is no activity and therefore you are quite insecure, although you want to make a different impression, you come before the MPs unprepared to face our argument, but then it is your political problem and your problem as minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21453	Ms. Jovanovic, you have advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 93(2). I don't see that there's any injured Rules of Procedure, if you read it correctly... Yes, you explained, but if you insist that I hurt the Rules of Procedure... Okay, I didn't understand. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) As I understand it, the government does not accept this amendment. Member of the 37th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 40 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I apologize to say for the previous amendment to Article 37, the Government does not accept that amendment. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Dragan Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21454	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have filed before the Serbian Radical Party an amendment to Article 42(1) that the words "as well as representative consumer organisations" are deleted. In light of this amendment, it says that the government should take over and which criteria will be set by those consumer organisations. As we heard at yesterday's session, including today's, about the criteria, as regards the setting up of the consumer organisation itself, I believe that if the minister uses the criteria of the Deputy Prime Minister, which is the best example for the criteria themselves... As for the determination of these experts in these local self-governments, the most obvious example is the municipality of Becej from which I come, where So Becjej made a decision to join the regional dump of Kickindi and where the radical government in Kikinda and its president, Dr Blazic, managed to get the organisation in competition for the regional dump, the setting up of a regional dump, where the Becej municipality was to join, therefore, that dump. Such a decision was made by SO Becay while the Radicals were in the congregation's majority, since a political coup and political coup in the Becay municipality led to a new congregation majority, where G17 plus was a feather of the coup and sent its expert to Vienna Municipality for Ecology. With the signing of the contract itself, SO Vienna does not come to sign the contract for the reason that an expert from G17 plus believes that such a contract should not be signed with SO Kikind and, for two reasons, real damage. Today we heard about the damages and damages themselves who will suffer damage if such a criterion is done, and the minister himself said it should be compensated for the damage; who will now make up for the municipality of Kickind who lost a lot of money by not signing the contract by the Becej municipality and who will compensate for the damage done by an expert in Vienna Municipality by receiving personal income and the payroll of the Becej Municipality. Of course, later when she wants the Vienna municipality to join such a regional dump, it will certainly cost her a lot more financially than it should have been now. It's not the first damage done in the Vienna municipality. We all remember well, this parliament also mentioned the damage done by the Democratic Party during its government in the province and in the municipality of Vienna, where Djordje Djukic, then signed a contract as prime minister in the province, that the German government would give the municipality of Becej bridge, which will connect the two cities. Since the bridge is not set, damage has been done to the Becej municipality, costing it 500,000 euros for transportation and gift received in Vienna. So that's all the information that's true, and I think the minister who came out here needs to hear these details. If the criteria that apply in this law apply as applied by the Vice-President of the Government, I do not think this law will be good. I urge all MPs to vote for this amendment in the voting day, and I would invite the minister to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21455	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21456	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to understand what investigation we must return to Article 40 and Article 4 where it is said - the Ministry is examining the application, i.e. evidence of imports of dumped or subsidized goods, etc. In Article 42, point 1 says – interested persons, including particularly those using the goods in question in production, as well as representative consumer organisations... I would now ask the minister to tell me what representative consumer organisations are, because I buy goods, spend money, not to be in a consumer organisation that is not representative. I ask by what criteria the Government determines that consumer organisation is representative, which is not. And, am I a member, if I go to the market with my neighbor, can my and my neighbor's organization be representative, to organize ourselves representatively, so that we can participate the next day when some goods are imported, when subsidies are found to be dumping and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, representative consumer organisations, exclusive, expert, and all these additions and all of the adjectives you're using, get out of the legal projects, because the law is a very serious category so we can play with such words that there's really no reason to be here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21457	The People's Messenger Mircic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21458	First, the SRS with its amendment wants to put out this formulation -- representative consumer organisations. Otherwise, the consumer organisation is contrary to this law and to the reasoning of this law. It is a relapse for some time which is characteristic that they did not work or did not respect market conditions. Here, the minister as a promoter says the principle of market economy is respected. What is the principle of market economy if an organisation called consumer organisation is inserted? Now, the Serbian Radical Party, with its amendment, wanted to fix as much as this member where this consumer association is defined, but, otherwise, an organisation or association called - the consumer association is something that is contrary to the market economy. It cannot be a consumer organisation that has the opposite interests of businesses, businesses, that is to say, it is contrary to this attempt where the Government wants to regulate this area. Consumer organisation is something that is, in any case, undesirable in such a law that involves market economy, free trade, free price formation. Consumer organisation is an organisation that has been organised over the past period for reasons to achieve social peace through the organisation. You are such a successful government that literally peace rules in Serbia. Although it's not mostly social, but it's peace, because the people have fun about themselves, watching how to survive, can't get their heads off these repressions. I ask you, Minister, to respect the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party. You can imagine how much this request is when we ask one minister, but you're in front of the promoter and I know you're not the main author of this law, it's dictated by different lobbys, different institutions, but I don't believe that these institutions and these lobbies... I primarily think that this organisation of representative character should exist for the simple reason that it is a future object of manipulation, i.e. the possibility through which various lobbys and various institutions can influence and only harm itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21459	The word has Minister Parivodic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21460	Thank you for the amendment. To be perfectly precise, I am the author of this law and as much as he does not work, it will be a burden on me, but I am the author, no one dictated my law. So I took responsibility for myself. The second thing is that there is a new line of rights called the right to protect consumers and the aim of that branch of the right is to protect consumers, in the sense that they allow for more favourable prices, the wider the supply of goods and services, and that they are not deceived in those transactions. These are three objectives: the wider the supply of goods and services, the more favourable the prices and the more they are not deceived. That's why these laws are passed, so let's say, under the Swiss law, you have the right to return the goods within 30 days of the day of purchase, if you change your mind. If someone sold you goods on the doorstep, you can also give it back, because it's a form of psychic pressure, etc. It is a right based on the circumstances that the consumer is quite weak in competition with traders and that he needs special protection, because he is not equal and has sometimes acted on. This is the essence of the concept of consumer protection. In order to implement these laws, Western societies have formed consumer associations which aim to promote the lowest prices, the wider the offer and the less fraud in trade, to make it a better protection for consumers. That's the kind of association we were thinking of. We didn't mean NGOs, but we meant associations that aim to protect every citizen of this country when they buy something at a retail facility or in any way about retail. It's a consumer protection association. Why representative? Because we can't talk to the association that started them yesterday and today they want to talk to the government. We want to talk to those who represent real power and who really represent representatives of consumers, one greater number of consumers, one established organisation. That's why we used the term - representative. I want to tell you, there is basically no law that will protect citizens from bad authority. If you've got con men in power, if you've got con people, society can't work. The same laws will make it completely different for Sicily and Britain, because other laws are mental; they like to cheat, they don't like. That is why, when we say representative association, you must believe that whoever is in power at that moment will act reasonablely and will talk to those who are really consumers. That is the reason for this provision and that is why I reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21461	Milorad Mircic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21462	First of all, Minister, I respect your physical interest in writing this law. You were most likely involved in the part concerning the typing of this law. It is generally known that the IMF and the World Trade Organisation dictate conditions, thus also criteria for these laws. You said in your opening statement what were the basic criteria for writing this law. Secondly, Mr. Minister, I admire you and your courage, as you qualify the peoples of the two European countries – that one is prone to theft, the other is not. It's really very brave, especially given the function you're doing. It's not very appropriate for a minister to show on such a classic case which nation is prone to crime and which is not. Let's leave it now. Mr. Minister, the reminders are working, in an oil crisis that ruled America in the 1960s, the main stumbling block, when it comes to regulation of the oil market and respect for economic principles on the market, were consumers. Why? Because consumers, by the very fact that they formed an association, were extremely suitable for lobbying at the time by exporters or oil importers, which is something that America, a much more economically developed country, had to solve. She solved it by passing a series of laws that regulated this area that you're talking about and that I agree with. The consumer must be protected, but you cannot talk about consumer protection and thus explain the fact that you care about the consumer by not accepting the amendment. Take care of the consumer by regulating import transactions, by preciseing the legislation that regulates the area. You can't take care of the consumer and have someone come to his doorstep and put pressure on him. That's what other laws regulate. That's quite clear. This amendment refers to the definition - representative. It's something the SRS wants to correct. It's known how the association is registered, what conditions it needs to meet, why you add another condition, which is to be representative. Representatives are those who have a number of members, who gather the largest number of consumers, prove it by their registration, by membership card. Then why would you open up a possibility (I'm not telling you personally, because we agreed obviously that at least you participated in this) that he was making a selection tomorrow, so that he would say, "You are an association, but these are declared representative associations of consumers. Enough is the association, if you have foreseen in the law, then the consumer association is sufficient, legally, legitimately, registered, and they are representatives of that group, or the population of Serbia. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21463	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21464	I really don't know what's the matter with you, Mr. Minister, you're from the government of Vojislav Kostunica, dissuade us with the whole world since this morning. As you set out to spread the front towards various countries, with qualifications, it's not good, it's not in diplomatic manners either. So a month ago, one of your fellow MPs came out and completely misprognosed it, and in power, the outcome of the elections in Germany. Don't deal with who's a bigger thief, who's cheating, who's who. Now I can ask you whether you are closer to the Sicilians or the British. As for the amendments we have submitted, this is not our principle and attitude, the only rational and reasonable in this situation, only when it comes to consumers, but also trade unions, industry associations and craftsmen. So, two months ago in the National Assembly, we passed the Consumer Protection Act, the Price Act, the Anti-Monopolitan Law. I understood everything you said, that it was an intensity, it's a new branch that should exist. If it is a economically developed country, where there are no such social oscillations, where there are no 2.5 million people at the edge of poverty or below the poverty line, then, when they have registered consumer associations and one of them is representative, it cannot bring confusion. There are almost equal rights there, at least as far as that middle standard of people is concerned. That's not the case with us. I don't understand how you have a vision of what a representative consumer association looks like. Is this the consumer from the Shop, from Kruševac, Love, Kragujevac, Novi Sad, Backa Palanka, Apatino, Kula, Majdanpek, Bora, are they all represented in the structure throughout Serbia? What happens and how consumer rights are violated in Loznica does not necessarily mean that it is in Kragujevac, or vice versa. It's impossible to define it that way. What is representative of some who have managed to get to that alleged representativeness and to register as such does not mean that they will protect someone third. You have the same case as the industrialists and Bogoljub Karic. He can pay the British, the Japanese, and I don't know who, he took so much state money and washed up his private accounts, and his family members, he can say for himself -- I'm the one who's the legitimate and representative representative of the industrialists, and he pays, and they're supposed to give him a plaque. It's the same case as the president of the Independent Union of Serbia. The union, as the largest, and he is, but President Smiljanic comes in, one day talking one day at a time, the other day, and by Mike and Laleta's system, agree with the minister of labour, martial arts and social affairs, they are known as trade unions. When it comes to the agenda that things are radicalized, that is, workers are seeking their rights and requirements, he gives in to all of them and says "I'm sorry, I was joking" and the workers remain at risk. It is not good to put such a definition in any law in Serbia, because in this chaotic time, and when it comes to consumers, both industrialists and craftsmen, it is impossible to determine what is representative, especially because of what I have told you. In the structure of those people who represent them, it would have to be equal representation, so let's see how they registered. That's why we say - that you've put in an association, and that's acceptable, but this word itself, even though it may have basically been the intention of following certain flows... But I'm telling you, what's in Sweden isn't in Serbia. That's what this is about. Here for me, the right to tell you, representative consumers of all those living on the edge of hunger, misery and poverty, because for them today is the basic concept and the question is not whether they are guaranteed a home appliances, which are not normally produced in Serbia, but whether they can buy bread, milk etc. Do you think people who happen to buy the most common pâté to children and be corrupt, or some dairy product, can turn to someone? A million cases like that I know of. They go, they go back to that retail facility, and this one says, "What, I'll pay you back." It's the only thing anyone's gonna tell him. Where's this guy gonna show up and say it? Who will protect consumers from this import lobby? Minister, you can see that everything and everything is being sold. Look at the supermarkets, which is the structure of the product. The other day, I was explaining to these most famous and, in my opinion, to be modest in the grade, the best chocolate girl made by Soko Sturk. One of these lobbyists will be among the consumers or at the import lobby ready to protect another world-renowned brand and defend and not protect our production. That's what we're different about. You don't always have to be vain and think that that's how we want to belittle. No, we're just saying it's better to throw it out and then you know where you're at. Besides, you don't have to put this into law at all, because I'm telling you, we have a passed law, which we've also had amendments to, but there's a Prices Act, Consumer Protection Act and Anti-Monopoly Law. It has already been defined to protect consumers.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21465	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) As I understand it, the government does not accept this amendment. Member of the 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has a folk ambassador, Momcilo Duvnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21466	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a good thing we're having a debate today on amendments to the law on foreign trade. It is also good that everything, including this law, is in line with the rules of the World Trade Organisation and EU regulations. This makes it look like we've been trading and doing business with the world without these organizations. That's not true. To remind you, Serbia's largest foreign trade contractor and trader in the 19th century was Prince Milos Obrenovic, and very successful in this part of Europe. Probably his experiences are valuable, and I'm not aware that the legislators of this law had it in mind. What is missing from this law, and the Ministry of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs was supposed to state in the part of the reasoning of the law? How many legal and natural persons, domestic and foreign citizens are now engaged in foreign trade and trade in goods in Serbia? How many employees are in these jobs? What kind of shop is this? How many economic effects are positive and negative for Serbia and the Serbian people? What are the perspectives of our country's future foreign trade towards Europe and the world, and what kind of goods are we going to compete with on that market? That's not just what I'm asking, it's what the citizens are asking, and above all, young people from Serbia. That's why the proposer of this law had to consider it, then offer us a law to consider. In Serbia today, according to this bill, there is no foreign trade strategy. According to this, anyone can do this job and think first of all about himself and not about Serbia. It's not good for us Serbian radicals. Without a serious strategic direction for Serbia's development, this law should not just be passed. Why am I saying this? In Article 6(1), point (b) is replaced by the following: The bill writes – The government determines goods and services that are subject to restrictions. The list is published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". There is an autonomous government, without anyone's proposal, suggestions and serious intentions of the goods manufacturer, service providers and even citizens of Serbia. Well, where democracy and democratic relations are, what this government swears. Serbian Radical Party MPs have proposed a number of amendments to the law in their best interest. Many of them were not accepted by the government for unexplainable reasons. I must say that each of our amendments had the support of Serbian citizens. For these reasons, I have proposed an amendment to replace Article 44 item 1 "30" with the number "eight". I didn't do it by replacing numbers. I did it for essential reasons. The Ministry should not place prior to the decision on the existence of dumping, i.e. the subsidy, and inform the parties in the procedure and interested persons of the essential facts and invite them to make a statement within 30 days of the date of the invitation, but to do so within eight days. Every ministry, including this, must be in the service of citizens and efficiently. What can happen when the procedure is extended is known to us all. I hope you accept my amendment in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21467	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21468	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I am surprised that the Ministry, or authorised representative of the ministry, has persistently rejected some of the amendments submitted by the Serbian Radical Party, especially because they do not go into the essence of the law itself, but are trying to fix technical matters in some administrative procedure that can be initiated in accordance with this law. Article 44 states: "The Ministry, before making a decision on the existence of dumping, or subsidy, shall inform the parties in the procedure and the interested persons of the essential facts and invite them to enter a plea within 30 days of the date of the invitation. "The boy Duvnjak, who submitted the amendment on behalf of the SRS, asked that instead of a 30-day deadline for the plea be eight days. This is not an accident for eight days, there are certain deadlines in the general administrative procedure, in a special and court procedure where deadlines are often shorter than 30 days, especially in court proceedings. In the court proceedings, the period of appeal varies from eight to 15 days. The promoter's been looking for 30 days here. Which is why it takes 30 days for the persons against whom the anti-dumping procedure can be initiated to plead on this point, why it gives them such a big deadline. First, it's about three or four documents that need to be delivered to the Ministry, to see if there really is a dumping or not and then the Ministry to react. Thirty days is a pretty big deadline, especially since in those 30 days he will continue to perform his work. It is left with the possibility to continue dumping prices on the market. It takes quite a while to establish dumping on the market, while companies engaged in similar activities find that there is dumping on the market, that goods with a lower price have emerged because another country subsidises, destroys domestic economy, especially domestic production; it takes about three or four months at least until the first more serious market disturbances are observed due to the placement of goods, consumer habits to buy new goods, etc. So these 90 or 120 days already dumping exists, causing certain damage to all economic operators. Giving them 30 days is a pretty big deadline. They will already be prepared, they will know that the anti-dumping procedure is being initiated and can be done during that period, and moreover, there are often very high profits, to lower the price even further until the deadlines for its statement expire. A few days before the plea, it will bring prices into line with the prices of goods on the market, but in any case it has caused damage to all domestic producers and companies participating in the same activity, especially when someone loses their market due to dumping, regardless of the measures and how the state reacts, it is difficult for the market to recover again without a deadline of one year or a year or a half. I therefore propose to the authorised representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that this amendment, which Momcilo Duvnjak, on behalf of the SRS, be accepted on this bill, especially since there is no more significant deviation from the law itself and does not change the essence of the law, or the intention of the legislator.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21469	The word has Minister Parivodic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21470	I thank you for this amendment. I would like to point out that we in our legal system have never had anti-dumping procedures before, and we simply have no experience with this job. We stuck to those deadlines that were represented in parallel because they did so. We assumed that they too had the same need that was real, which is to complete the procedure as soon as possible. We watched the parallel right and saw that those deadlines were 30 days. It is obvious that whoever is involved in the procedure needs such a time limit to prepare the material and to respond, and therefore we remain at this time and refuse the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21471	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21472	Mr. Zlatan Jovanovic has submitted an amendment to Article 45. The bill, and this article refers to a situation of its own accord: is l'you promise; honorary word, I promise, I will raise the price, only that you allow me to import, etc. This member is unnecessary, and I'll try to explain why he's not needed. By this law, you follow the goods, not the money. There's a much more important way of money in politics and trade than the way of goods. You probably all agree with this finding. Just to remind you, yesterday we told you it wouldn't be bad, it would even be desirable if at the same time with this law, whether as first or next item of the agenda, we had foreign exchange law. I'm not sure the foreign exchange law, as proposed, will stay until the beginning of the session to discuss the law. So that's two points they had to be tied up. Now we're going to analyze what you wrote in article 45. First, there are incorrect words: "Faces that export to the territory of the Republic... ". Which person on the territory of the Republic is exporting? I guess that's our importer. He's exporting to our territory? An exporter from abroad? He comes through one of our importers? "... it may, during the examination procedure, offer or accept an obligation to increase the price of the goods subject to the examination procedure at the amount necessary to remove the damage." This means about this: these authorities have found that this goods that come at dumping prices and that they would be present with this goods here he says – I will increase the price of this goods, just to be present on the market. You, of course, can continue to negotiate, it increases that. Now, you explain to me, since there's a way of money and a journey of goods, how you'll guarantee that these goods will be at those higher prices. Or is it only interesting to you that the base for customs is much higher? Then we get to the point. You would accept that you agree with him to increase the value, to increase the base, if customs duties are paid for the goods, to apply the rate and to take the state on the basis of customs duties and on the basis of other duties your share. What happens next? In addition, he can sell the goods at other prices and you have no control. If he decides to win the market, he will also pay taxes on some imaginary basis, customs and everything, to be present again. You're talking about the way of goods, not the way of money. Here you're only looking at the papers that prove the property of the goods, the origin, the purchase contract, etc., but you don't have the way of the money. The money road is somewhere else. When that goods came to us, you realized that it was in the offer of dumping, you leveled it up and you finished your part of the job. It's done work under this law, but then it's the way of money. In this way money goes other prices and that's the problem. That's why we don't need this member. So, you started with that stuff, it goes with that price, the competent authority found that it was a dumping price, there's no job, or, in order to make it right, there's a tax that we were just talking about and it's done. There is no possibility of negotiation and negotiation. He says – it is the dumping price, but not to pay the dumping I will raise the price of the goods. No, it can't, because the commission isn't involved in legal work here. He who performs in the process of questioning, the Ministry and the Government, performs with attributes of government. You can't make a deal like this. You questioned, you found that dumping was the price and was subject to the obligation to pay this tax. Both variants are subject to duty obligations if his goods are to enter here with us. The negative consequences of dumping the prices and subsidies followed by the goods are lifted, that is the road. You make it possible for a man here, and you say, so he doesn't pay the dumping tax, raise your price where there is no dumping, and then the goods will go. He can't do that. It has entered the procedure, the procedure has been established, if that goods are to be present, you will pay the dumping tax, i.e. the anti-dumping duty. If you don't want to pay your taxes, there won't be any of your goods here, there's no such thing as a job. That's how the state stopped the job and the end of the story. This is where the state authority determines. The state's authority can't be guessed. The state authority is not involved in the traffic. This is where the State Authority objectively fulfils whether cases have occurred for the application of the previous provisions, whether the conditions for application of the provisions of Articles 33 to 38 have occurred. So what's prescribed in Articles 33 to 38 is checked in a procedure that goes with Article 39, that's the role of the state. The state can't be guessed. See what you wrote: "The Ministry cannot require an increase in the price in excess of the amount of the dumped margin, i.e. subsidies", here, you teach someone how not to pay. Furthermore, if the Ministry finds that an increase in prices is removed from the future consequences of dumping or subsidy, it may suspend or suspend the investigation procedure by official duty. You're saying the government's appeal can be made against the decision in Section 3. You don't need that. This is a kind of administrative procedure. There is no possibility in the Law of the General Administrative Procedure that someone should be able to make such arrangements, if he throws his hand, then we will be at half-six. There isn't, there isn't. All this stuff that's written here is the internal thing of those who deal in foreign trade. Have them negotiate before they report to the competent state authority who's in charge of checking this out. The competent state authority that checks whether the conditions have occurred, the reasons set out in Articles 33 to 38, that is already a done deal – either introduced or not introduced, whether business ends or not, depends on their interest. The state cannot, in the form of this organ, enter into its own negotiations. I agree that by eradicating article 45, it may be unthinking the entire procedure prescribed by the previous member. That goes beyond your concept, where the Ministry should be asked, more importantly, to influence etc, under the anti-dumping and other types of protection of your country, but this member is unnecessary to you. This body of yours comes forward with the attributes of power. When you come forward with the attributes of the government, in an objective way you should apply the provisions of the law, not to form autonomously your own will, so to say – you want this job, it is possible, but under these conditions; you have defined yourself in this way, so if you change, we will enable you, you will not pay the margin etc. Add money to all of this, which differs significantly in the foreign trade from the goods route. An hour ago there was a failed defence of Miroljub Labus on some roads – if we want to export we must and import. Let it go, it doesn't even work in parties anymore. Answer the question, why is it a foreign trade deficit like this? What kind of payment business is this abroad? How does someone do business with us from abroad, and we owe an external trade exchange of 5 billion euros? What is behind it – you know what is hidden, because you can't just give more goods and less to gain. The way of money is very important, and the way of money is not under the control of the Ministry of Economic Relations with the abroad. If the minister and wants to be active and to get basic knowledge of the way of money in order to determine the legality of the goods route, he will immediately encounter a blockade of business banks, the National Bank and the Ministry of Finance, I guarantee it. He must be facing a blockade, because he's facing a forbidden zone that can't be seen. Take care of those things. So this member is unnecessary, because it gives even wrong authority to the organ to negotiate. State authorities are not authorised in legal transactions between legal entities to be intermediaries or negotiators, but to objectively apply the relevant provision of the law governing this area. That's the whole point of this story.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21473	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. For the sake of efficiency and quality of work of the Assembly, I want to give you two notices that concern all of us. So today, according to Article 85(4), we will be working until the end of the search in particular of the tobacco bill. We have a search tomorrow from 10.00 in detail of the Police Bill's proposal. So that's what I told you so you could schedule your duties. A proposaling representative's notice: in case an amendment is accepted, it is sufficient to give a sign to the president, and in case the president is not accepted as well, then informs the MPs. Thank you very much. Does anyone want to talk about this previous amendment? The voting day will be set for Monday, November 14th at 10.00pm, so these sessions, which are scheduled, can continue later. Here's a word from the People's MP, Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21474	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 45 – not only should it be possible for the Government, i.e. the competent ministry to negotiate with the legal entities involved in the transport of goods, but one such procedure and acceptance, i.e. by not accepting the amendments, the question of what to do with the compensatory duties, what to do with the anti-dumping duties. So, the person against whom the proceedings are suspended has no obligation to pay those charges. Isn't that right, Minister? Did it make extra profit? Yes, it is. Have they done any particular damage on the market? They were and were only rewarded for accepting, after a number of days of market presence, to raise the price. That's the problem. So, a person who deals with this kind of business, whether it's legal or physical, went in to make money, create a certain monopoly on the market and make a profit. If there is a Law on the Protection of Competition, the Consumer Rights Act, then the question is, what do we get with this member? In my opinion, it would be best for you to accept the amendment to article 45 of this law. You later have a whole series of amendments that will bring the rest of the law into line with Article 45, i.e. deleting Article 45, so you will have no problem with the fact that later the Legislative Committee or someone else is submitting new amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21475	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Does any other parliamentary group want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. This one hasn't been accepted. The 45th Amendment was submitted by the Government. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 46th amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21476	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have seen that you have performed an ex post intervention in Article 45. This article would be complete if you accepted what Mr Jovanovic suggested and left what you later gave us – that is to add a new position to Article 45. We continue the story and come to a member of the 46th and what was said by his colleague, Arsic. You unequivocally said, first of all, that in a relatively real 30-day period, something has already been applied to initiate the procedure. But, in particular, in the case of extra-profit acquisitions, when at dumped prices, up to the level of equalisation of sales of certain types of goods, inconspicuous consequences and damages can be done. You reaffirmed yourself, from place to place, that fellow Arsic would not initiate the procedure until I knew what day. Hypothetically, I must especially warn you that in the agricultural sector, which is 21 percent of our gross social product, plus 20 percent of the processing industry, this can happen the most, and the most common case is the threat of this sector to the economy in our country. That is, not only by Serbian radicals but by the manufacturer's demands, which is the most needed to protect against such unfair competition that is created on the market, because in the whole structure, you yourself know how much agriculture affects the gross social product, how much damage can be done. If you say you don't accept that Section 4 is deleted, as I suggested on behalf of the SRS, in a translated sense, this could mean: that some of the directors in some social enterprise, which is still there, this little thing that hasn't been robbed, or before, none of them have been involved, are rare to you, and that I'm not talking about ministers who've been dealing with various abuses, that they've laundered money, that they've committed a robbery of state or social property and everything and that criminal proceedings are being brought against them and that they've proved in court that they've robbed property, they've, by our Criminal Code, will be subject to sanctions. You say here - no, in case the price is ordered to be equal - this dumped, with the price on the market, ate the donkey wolf, nothing. Don't say that, Mr. Minister. The damage has already been done. We can't speculate at all what sales volume it was in five, ten, 20, or I don't know how many days. That someone's earned an extra profit. Here, you are now increasing the price of oil, or not you, but it is obvious that there will be an increase in the price of oil; then when it went to 78, then to 82 dinars, no one, especially pensioners, and at the time of preparation for the winter, could understand that it happened. Now someone at dumped oil prices, or anything else, doesn't matter at all, some agricultural product: tomatoes, potatoes; he did it for about 20-30 days and you say after that – nothing, this article will be applied to him without erasing attitude 4. In the case referred to in Article 3(3) of the decision to impose an anti-dumping duty, i.e. the compensatory duty is not applied to the goods of the person who accepted the obligation to increase the price. Here's the key question when this person has accepted the obligation. You just told your colleague Arsic that he can spend a lot of time before the procedure is started, we put an eight-day deadline on him, so he's late, so he didn't do it, so he's got that deadline, you know. Then he made a huge profit. That is why it is most logical for you to accept this amendment. I have given an explanation in just one sentence – once the proceedings have been initiated, the damage has already been done and it is impossible for this person to bear further sanctions. You see the situation where our entire economy is and what opportunities we have to produce, and what there is not, where those who sell goods as monopolies on our market are building huge capital. When will we, as a state, be able to sell our manufactured televisions, refrigerators and other white technique and other goods of broad consumption? What we have is much more quality than the various low-class products that are imported into our market, above all I think about food, because, with the poverty and misery that prevailed, the quality of food in our country is much higher. You have to be sure of that. It really is, and everybody knows it. Then we would have to protect these producers and the market, and those who got fat and got big money because they dared to sell at dumped prices of goods, for that, they bear responsibility. This is how an entire member, with attitude 4, amnests them; they've earned what they care about, they'll get into some new arrangements again, they'll always find a way to calculate to these, not now the quota, but to the amount that they're supposed to be to protect our production. They always earn the same, and citizens suffer damage, i.e. the end consumer. I don't think that's right and that's why this intervention in Article 45(4) you've added... If you are already going that way, then accept this amendment that I have tabled on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21477	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. Anyone else want a word? Here you go, Mr. Arsic, according to the same amendment. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21478	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the amendment that Miss Jovanovic filed on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party on Article 46 is, in fact, the continuation of the amendment to Article 45. To read the article itself, or two of the attitudes to which this amendment applies. So – the examination procedure terminated in accordance with Article 45 may continue, and so on. "If, after the completion of the investigation procedure, there is a dumping, i.e. a subsidy, which causes significant damage, the assumed obligation to increase the price is applied. "So, a price increase obligation is imposed on taxes. We go to the following item 4, where it is said: "In the case of the third article's position, the decision to introduce an anti-dumping or compensatory duty is not applied to the goods of a person who has accepted the obligation to increase the price. "Why? So, one rather logical question, Mr. Minister, because if someone has done damage, why not defile the state in a certain way, and the state can defile the legal entities in this procedure, which are damaged in a certain way. Mr. Minister, not all canned goods, television, washing machine, furniture; you have goods that have certain expiry dates, which cannot be sold on the market, only because there is someone who disturbs market relations and cannot be sold. What's going on with that stuff? He's throwing himself Who suffered the damage? All of the producers, wholesale sales, retail sales, in the extreme case – the state, if the one who suffered the damage fits, those 3% as far as Dinkic predicts he can write off the goods and does not pay VAT. I understand your indecision when he was a member of 45, you wanted to retain some right to negotiate, probably because of Article 46, but now there's no reason not to accept this amendment. So, the damage is done. You know what, in the process itself, we need to go through the logic of the market, or whoever's causing that kind of damage on the market. Every time he gets away with it, he'll always do it again. Our entire Criminal Law and the Code of Violent Procedure apply some kind of repression, preventive and reprisal, and there's no prevention, no punishment, no nothing. So he can -- okay, now we don't want to work with this kind of stuff anymore, sell what's left on the lager, look for some similar goods on the market or another that subsidizes by another state and continues the business. It will be five or six days again until the existence of dumping has been established, and a certain period will go on as this process is being initiated, and therefore, the process of testing is taking a pretty long time, and then the process of declaring the person against whom the examination is being conducted and can take a year. When it comes to finished products, there is only damage by destroying finished products, but you have other types, or branches of businesses that can suffer damage when such things occur on the market. So, of course, they can suffer certain damage; later on, on the subject of the amendment, we'll talk about it. I would invite you, Mr. Minister, as the authorised representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to accept this amendment that Ms. Natasa Jovanovic submitted on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21479	The word has Minister Parivodic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21480	I'd just like to explain to you, we had those amendments that talk about compensation for de facto damage by collecting revenue from compensation fees, i.e. anti-dumping, that that money should be directed to those who were damaged. We're also talking about the fact that it's time to punish whoever did the dumping and to charge him for the anti-dumping duty, even though he agreed to raise the price. What you need to understand is the essential nature of these measures. Those in their nature are not criminal, but they aim to level the terms of trade, and that is the essence. So when you have 148 countries that have adopted certain rules of conduct, if you would introduce the principle of punishment in these relations, then it would turn into a general war against everyone, and that's why the whole system is based on how the measures are applied in a way that balances business conditions, and not to make up for damage or someone else's punishment over it, so the whole concept goes back to what you're saying. The concept is fundamentally different and that's what was only possible when a large trading system was created on a global scale. So, the World Trade Organisation has about 2,000 pages of the contract and if we go member by member to question whether it's right or wrong, we're going to enter the World Trade Organization in 2186, and that's not our goal. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21481	I saw it, just a second. Thank you, Mr. Parisian. So, please, this is a discussion of details. The debate in principle, when it came to concepts, was. Independent of international obligations, we are discussing exactly a member per member of this law and the amendment's proposings in detail by clarifying, and by default, our concept. Please, because of mutual respect, it is understood that the concepts differ, not only the legislator, the amendment promoter, but others who participate in the debate. Since this is understood, a whole series of conceptual differences are once again underlined in the final word, because it is the privilege of the legislator, and of course, the privilege of MPs is to explain each amendment with a special accent, regardless of the concept. Please, it's all right, I get it. Please, once again, since we're only talking about the state here, it's about everything, we're talking – we, first face of the plural. So, no -- you don't understand, or you understand; so -- we have to understand, and we will accept, or we won't do it in the voting day. This is basic and in this sense there is no need for an additional replica. Thank you. You want a replica? Replica, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21482	Let me remind you of the famous sugar affair. You're wrong. I understand the global market, I understand the integration, I understand your great desire, and this dream, which is untrustworthy, that we are in the European Union who knows what years, whether 2025 or 2026, and it's all a big question, therefore, and that there are no barriers and that we are in line with these currents and trends. But as for those huge abuses that have been committed to the state of Serbia and which individuals have used to gain enormous wealth, and personally and with their apparition signed by the Vice-President of the Government of Miroljub Labus (then Federal, and now he is the Vice-President of the Republic Government), I must remind you of all the threats made by the European Union, which you are harmonising these laws with, that for a little while we degrade them because of the damage done and then they were as understandings, which is by the system of sticks and carrots, they put you on the other side, giving you an account for Kosovo and Metohija, blackmailing you and so on, because we have deceived them. Now I'm not saying "we" as a state, I have to fence, because it's not the state that did it, it's one man in the name of the state, and that's Miroljub Labus. So, Mr. Minister, if there's no sanctions, then it's pointless to talk. While the global market is alive and we are even with the world, both by production and by technology, and that like white bears, like them, we are protected by consumers, how much water will flow through Sava and Danube. It is impossible for you to say to them, "Here you go, do whatever you want." Now, let me give you the names of the individuals, will you? The ones spoke of by Mr. Arsic, who trade in goods of broad consumption and who pay the price to our producers who can produce something else. What a way to tell them now – you know, you should be nice and good, so in Europe and in all countries where people are allegedly nice, they don't deal with fraud. Here you have a bunch of con men who are connected to the highest state structure of government. They don't care about that at all, your applications for good behavior, translated into a member of the law, until you shake it in your pocket and bear no sanctions, and that's what your colleague Arsic says, and the question of whether or not he can resist another or third time. He's got one job here, he's gonna go with the other, and he's gonna give a shit. He's always winning, it's worth it. If you don't punish yourself, there's nothing to it. You say now -- there's no such thing, and you say - 148 countries. Mr. Minister, in which country of these 148 you have to advocate a single market and do business, or work on a double track system? We are specific to everything, not because we Serbian did it, but because the Constitutional Charter was revised, because this is where Solana comes and shakes his hand on the table, so the American embassy comes to write the laws, so this one. When we already have such specificities that one republic has the euro or the euro, as they would say, for its currency, and we have a dinar, whose value is being disputed by the IMF, so when we have a double-collect business, so when that unfortunate Cedomir Jovanovic went as an expert to bring customs duties into line for 54 agricultural products, what we all who are state and people have suffered, we live well. In order not to repeat this to us and not to continue to release your long fingers those who have so far had the opportunity to do business in our market, accept this amendment, because by the time we reach the level of those countries to which you are invited, there will be much more time to pass. You, Mr. Markovic, don't keep rattling, if you feel like sleeping, so I don't relax you enough with my story, then you change your eyes or concentrate differently.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21483	Ms. Jovanovic, time was up about a minute and a half ago, and since I was in Montenegro yesterday, I can assure you that time is both here and there. There's no dispute about it, the law is clear. Be nice, three minutes are up, you finish your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21484	I am finishing up, and I will kindly tell you that the time, just like the Serbian Radical Foreigner, has not expired, is just coming.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21485	The government does not accept this amendment. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The government does not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger Suleiman Spaho.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21486	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have tabled an amendment in front of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group on Article 48(2). Proposal for a law on foreign trade. Article 48(1) of the Law regulates the introduction of provisional measures by the Government and, on a proposal from the Ministry, in the event that a breach of the obligation to increase prices is found to exist. Article 2 provides that the government may impose provisional measures at the end of the 60-day period from the date of initiation of the procedure. I propose, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, that the 60-day deadline be reduced to 30 days. A 60-to-30-day reduction is a better solution, as it will lead to a faster removal of irregularities that also introduce temporary measures. Mr. Minister, this change does not endanger the essence of your law. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have two reasons to vote in favour of this amendment. One is that it is good and significantly corrects the quality of this member, and hence the law on foreign trade. The second is, Mr. Minister, you have repeatedly mentioned Europe and entering the European Community; here is the opportunity for you to enter Europe through my amendment. It's not for laughing. As much as we make a good law, if you do not tolerate national minorities, you will never enter Europe. So adopt this amendment of mine, and the European Community will see you tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, possibly Monday or Tuesday, into the European Community. You won't be wrong if you don't accept it. You know how strong and strong Europe is and will punish you, you will stay in the Balkans in Serbia, but you will remain in that Serbia for which our esteemed President, Dr Vojislav Seselj, stands for the great Serbia, and we Serbian radicals. Then all together, both you and me and everyone, will work for the good of the citizens of Serbia, so any nationality they are. I know, knowing about this short time of my friends and MPs from this group of positions, that 90% for big Serbia, they just don't have the courage and the political will to say. That is why we Serbian radicals are mentioned in every place -- a great Serbia. Whatever you think of the great Serbia, Mr. Minister and you MPs in position, that's our reality. There's one thing I'd like to mention. All the time, Mr. Minister, you've been pushing for better economic potential in Serbia. I don't think that's it, it's just on your word. Here's one reason, that's the opportunity, you remember the ecological lakes in Tabanovići near Capca when you sided with the ino shoppers who wanted to kidnap.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21487	Thank you, Mr. Spaho. Optimism is desirable, but there are no shortcuts to entering Europe. Here you go, Mr. Arsic, according to the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21488	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, they're kind of kind of rude to me, but I'm still gonna say, funny reasons for the minister not to accept certain amendments. Firstly, the applicant for this amendment, Sulejman Spaho, who submitted an amendment to article 48 on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, behaves, the minister acts as if he would be admitted to EU countries tomorrow or the day after. That's what it looks like, and that's the problem. We talked about it yesterday. It'll be at least 15 years before we get those necessary conditions. We are only at the beginning of the process and as if it cannot accept the fact that there are certain differences between those 148 countries, as you said, and Serbia. As far as I know, none of those 148 countries have been under certain economic sanctions for 10 years, whether they were those invisible sanctions, which still exist, or those set by the UN. Because of this and the situation, certain market disturbances have occurred, our market and production have been closed for a certain period of time. They are not able to deal with competition technologically, are not capable of quality, when a particular product type is concerned, with neither productivity nor prices. All that you persistently refuse – not in spirit, not in accordance, etc., okay, write a law that can essentially be some transitional law until these consequences have already been removed. You persist, as if our economy were able to deal with the world as an equal. It's not. This is also evident in these deadlines that you are constantly establishing, and it is said: "The government, on a proposal from the ministry, if it finds that there is a breach of the assumed obligation to increase the price, can impose temporary measures. The government may impose provisional measures at the end of the 60 days following the date of initiation of the investigation procedure, if: it finds that dumping, i.e. subsidies and injury caused, is likely to occur; it finds that due to the delay of the application of anti-dumping duties, i.e. compensatory adverse consequences may occur.’ Then why did you insist on that 30-day period? About half an hour ago, we talked about it, and you didn't accept the amendment that shortened those deadlines. So you're aware that there may be some harmful consequences. Furthermore, as I said, there is not only damage when a product is thrown; there is, especially in agricultural production, more damage. Some of them are being removed longer. We are aware that even our agriculture, as it is, does not lag behind, but at the cost it lags behind. First, we have healthier food, healthier meat than we can offer from the west. The price of their meat is lower because certain chemical substances, hormonal substances, etc. are used. to increase the yields, etc., so miracles happen, that girls of two or three years of age run breast milk, etc. Such meat and such products are usually cheaper. Some may be in line with health regulations, etc., and these problems are not yet so pronounced, but such meat can appear on the market at a lower price. What's going on, say, with domestic farms? What are the consequences that they will have? If someone decides to import such goods, the first consequence that will be is that domestic farmers, whether they are social enterprises, agricultural holdings or individual agricultural producers, will not be able to place their goods. There are farmers here, so let them say how much a pig costs a day, that it's on a farm. What's her offering going to be in 60 days and how much is she gonna cost just on behalf of the food in 60 days? Not to mention that within 60 days, since it's done in tours, it's going to lose the category, whether it's going to be in the first category of 90 to 100 kilograms, the second, third and out of the category, where each of the next categories is the lower price. What's the second consequence? So, the loss of food, the loss of the product and the destruction of the stock fund, because it is no longer safe in the state and will not invest in such production, and you insist on these long deadlines. So we have more damage that one of these phenomena of dumping can cause. Then you say the spirit of this law is not to punish. There's no real punishment here. A real punishment for something like this could be a prison. We don't want a repressive state organ, but we want whoever did the damage and removed it. There's no real punishment here. Then he'll imagine if next time he'll get back into some business that can cause these consequences. So it's not about the real punishment, it's about removing the damage from everyone in the series, as much as possible. Normally, he'll suffer damage from his behavior, but that's already his problem, which he caught in that circuit.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21489	Does any other parliamentary group want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Lalic. The government does not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is from the People's Messenger Nikola Lalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21490	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that I have submitted to Article 48 is closely linked to Articles 33 and 34, and in particular to the amendment to Article 17, which in the previous debate the minister did not accept, so I hope he will accept at least this amendment to Article 48. Why do I say he's in a tight relationship? It is closely related to these reasons that both of them, both third and fourth, are talking about the protection measure of our market, i.e. the entry of foreign goods into our market. This measure is a fact-finding measure – a temporary measure, because through this text and through these members of the law you can see, where you introduce quotas that have no efficiency, then the guarantee, and now arrive in this way of protection, and these are temporary measures. The amendment is – temporary measures remain in force for at least six months, and not more than 12 months. This amendment achieves a lower limit of temporary measures of six months. A better solution than what is in the law – that temporary measures remain in force for a maximum period of six months from the date of entry into force of the decision to impose a provisional anti-dumping duty.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21491	By the same amendment, Mr. Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21492	I'll do it very briefly, so there'll be time for Mr. Krasic as well. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if the state has already found that the importer has done damage and if the state has already reached out to the previous members how to sanction a part of the damage, let's say, in Article 48 and we have submitted the amendment and the position 2 that it says - the government can impose provisional measures at the end of the 60 days from the date of its launch... We asked it to be a month. The government established the existence of dumping, found that due to the delay in the application of anti-dumping and compensatory duties, difficult adverse consequences may occur, etc., the importer caused damage, the effects of huge producers, on the market; who will determine whether months or six months of temporary measures will remain in force and at what price, since we know of the situation that electricity from Serbia, when the current of Serbia was most needed, was exported when it could be exported and that, in the meantime, reversible hydropower plants were excluded and water was poured. Not to mention all other products, because electricity is also a product. When you look at this article: "The government can introduce temporary measures at the expiry of 60 days", temporary measures will take six months, or four months if the second position of Article 48 applies, after a maximum of six or four months (which means that 15 days, maybe a month) will re-emerge on the market, perhaps not with that product, but with someone else and again doing damage. Therefore, in addition to all other state regulations to which the state needs to protect, which are in this law, it needs to be imposed for at least six months of temporary measures and it should be disabled for the longest, there is a possibility that after a year it will re-emerge on the market. So at least six months can't show up on this market. That is why I propose to the Minister that this amendment be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21493	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21494	I just wanted to draw attention to the government's representative that the amendments submitted by the Serbian Radical Party to the members of 44th and 45th, which concern some deadlines, make up the whole, so if the Assembly adopts an amendment to Article 44, where the deadline from 30 days to eight days, then it makes sense to move that deadline to 30 days in article 45 with 60 days. If it is not adopted, then it must remain, but these two amendments make one connection. Article 48 has an address – temporary measures. I must say that the protection measures that are taxed in article 33 are also temporary. Any measure referred to in Article 33: anti-dumping duty, compensatory duty, over-import protection, balance balance protection measures, all of these are temporary measures, are not permanent. The government doesn't introduce them so they're valid for 20 years. It introduces them because the situation on the market is such that it also applies one of these safeguard measures to lead its economic policy. You are within the safeguard measure which, by definition of limited duration, has now introduced a new category of temporary measure. In Article 48(3), you shall indicate how this temporary measure is viewed. You said: "The temporary measures referred to in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article are: 1) the granting of a guarantee equal to the provisional anti-dumping or compensatory duty calculated for a period of time in accordance with the position of the 5th of this Article, or 2) the provisional anti-dumping or compensatory duty, if the Ministry finds that the deposit of the guarantee does not provide sufficient guarantees. "So you're in something that's bounded by nature by a temporary measure, and you've limited it even further in some way. Why did I look back on the position of the third member? Because it's only in Section 5 that you're talking about the duration of the temporary measure. I think you've come to the wrong side of the concept. All of these safeguard measures in Article 33 are temporary for its duration. They are authorized by the state under this law to apply them when the legal conditions are laid down that these measures should protect our market. You brought it in here, and I have to tell you that these are bad solutions. You said that some temporary measure here could take six months, or four months. If it's like this, then it means that there's nothing you can do in that period, and there's something that's changed on the market. The fact that it initially worked on dumping is now no longer dumping. How are you going to work? You don't need that. It's probably good to have something stand as a threat, but what if the conditions change? The changes in the terms and conditions and you're within something that works temporarily, has a temporary fact, introduced something else that needs to speed up in some way this process of yours as a temporary measure, if we're going with the analogy of some of the other procedures in which temporary measures are used. It introduces temporary measures because a final solution is expected, but here what you have in Article 33, as a supposed final solution, is time-limited again. It is impossible to impose an anti-dumping duty on a product from abroad and only after five years to question it. There'll be chaos on the market. I return to that – 365 days this applies and 365 days follow this area and by definition all protective measures are temporary, because the market situation is less or more presently. At this point, these conditions, there is a change in course tomorrow or a change in credit, conditions change, and the presence and relationship of goods on our market are automatically changing. It's literally living matter prone to everyday change. So, as part of something temporary, something even more temporary is illogical. If the aim of the temporary measure is to bring something to a halt before the final solution, then you don't need a six-month or four-month period. Why are you handcuffing yourself? Why are you tied to that deadline in Section 5? Should it stop life while that temporary measure lasts? You wrote it like that, until the temporary measure is you can't give a final solution. That's why you don't need a deadline like that. Again, we come to the conclusion that you haven't actually read our amendments. If you'd read our amendments, you'd see that this matter needs to be known, that some practice is being consulted, to see how other countries do it. Rarely, countries do, I admit, in exceptional cases they do, but you must always keep in mind the situation on the market, because very easily behind the safeguards and temporary measures, for the sake of safeguard measures, you can come into a situation to make a mess on the market, although all of this is in a function to stabilise the market. I don't argue that the intention is good, but practice can be very painful and difficult.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21495	Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 50 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. The government does not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Milan Škrbić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21496	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a Law on Foreign Trade, which refers to Article 50, where, after the three positions, paragraph 4 is added, which should read: "The ministry is obliged to make a decision at the request of Article 1 and 2 within 15 days of the date of submission of the application. "One more in a series of amendments that we have submitted, which is precise and, if you have noticed, the whole discussion of this law in principle and in particular speaks of something to be precise. The principle and attitude of the Serbian Radical Party is that all the criteria and regulations should be put into law as much as possible, in legal acts and so should this member. It is necessary to establish the deadlines within which the Ministry will make decisions on request. If we are talking about Article 50, paragraph 1 states: "A person who, during the period covered by the examination procedure, did not import or export goods subject to the anti-dumping duty, which is not related to persons who import, or export goods subject to this measure, or to producers of that goods, may request the Ministry to consider without delay the justification of the application of the anti-dumping duty on goods imported or exported, as well as to establish an appropriate anti-dumping duty on the goods of that person, that is to exclude the goods of that person from the obligation to pay the anti-dumping duty. The second point: "A person whose goods are subject to compensatory duty but who did not participate in the investigation procedure, except for refusal of co-operation, may require the Ministry to establish, without delay, a special compensatory duty on goods imported or exported". It is necessary to establish the deadlines under which the Ministry will decide on the applications. According to point 3(2), "the ministry may require the provision of guarantees to ensure the collection of anti-dumping duties, i.e. the compensation tax. "So the Ministry was left alone to assess who would take that guarantee and who not. It is a principle that we from the Serbian Radical Party will not allow the ministry itself to free itself to decide on many things that are not legally prescribed. When we talk about the violation of these good business practices and the horrors in this whole law, the biggest collapse of competition is if one of the participants in the process finds himself in a privileged position, meaning whether someone gets a quota, won't get a permit or get a reduced one. In order to avoid this, we from the Serbian Radical Party believe that, for the sake of transparency, which you from the Government are also calling on in this explanation of the bill, in addition to the government's obligation to publish, in accordance with Article 6(2), the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" a list of goods subject to various restrictions, and in this part of the Ministry should be awarded, on the basis of a public call, everything that is public, quotas, permits and advances with a list of clear things, if possible. Why am I saying that? If, on the basis of a public call, the Ministry grants quotas, and we remember Article 17(1) and in accordance with Article 29(1), the Ministry keeps records of the licences issued, we propose that, in accordance with the members that exist in your proposal, Article 29(2), the Government prescribes closer conditions for keeping records, permits, and then it is said to – through the submission of a monthly report to the relevant committee of the Assembly, in order to constantly control the process of granting and using various permits and quotas. This possibility is given in Article 71(1). Therefore, there is a possibility that, despite Article 11(1) and (2), the information obtained is considered to be official secrecy and cannot be published and communicated to third parties. In point 2), it is said – unless the competent authority is obliged to do so in accordance with this law. There's something we need to explain. The secrecy concerns specific contracts and contractual relations between participants in external trade. So the relationship is a buyer -- a seller, and in that part it should be a secret, but it doesn't apply to quota exploitation and permits. So I think this review in some monthly report, which some congregation committee should be getting... We already have this example in practice; we have found that the very bad Public Procurement Act is in force, however, we from the Finance Committee are monthly receiving reports of cancelled public procurements or partially invalid public procurement, where all is explained to detail why they have been annulled, which is why they have been annulled in part or in full. Me and the SRS parliamentary group are close to the idea that we could do something similar in this law, that we would receive monthly reports – MPs or some competent assembly committee, so that we could follow everything that is related to this law in various members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21497	Thank you, Mr. Squirt. Anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21498	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment, submitted by Mr Milan Skrbic on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, should be accepted by the National Assembly, as it generally sets deadlines for the ministry to act in charge of implementing this law. It is therefore that it can happen in practice that there are persons who are not covered by some examination procedure, who import goods that may be subject to testing and that require the Ministry to introduce a special compensatory duty on goods imported or exported. That's the idea of a promoter in article 50. However, another question arises when it comes to Article 50, which is whether it is possible, as soon as he has left one of these options, that someone in the examination process may also be privileged, i.e. that one group of persons importing certain goods is put under investigation, that is, their business, and that determines whether or not dumping has occurred, and other persons importing the same goods, may be even from the same country of origin, not to be covered by such an examination procedure and by the application of the compensatory duty. If there is indeed a legitimate wish for the promoter to be eliminated on the market, then only the Ministry would have to respect certain deadlines when it comes to certain solutions. So, it can happen, on purpose or by accident; to rule out the possibility of an intention to do something about it, it is necessary to set deadlines. This way, the ministry can clean its hands quite nicely from the exception of a person because he is not under trial. So that person submits a request to the Ministry and the Ministry simply does not act on his request. Why? There is no legal provision, does not comply with that requirement, and it continues to carry out its work without compensatory duty, without the examination procedure. The proposed amendment states: "The ministry is obliged to make a decision at the request of Articles 1 and 2 within 15 days of the day of submission of the application." So, the essence of the law doesn't change, the spirit of your law doesn't change, it just kind of forces the Ministry to do its job in some of the shorter and shorter deadlines. When it comes to indefinite deadlines, the question arises as to why they are undefined, as this creates the possibility of abuse. Simply, on the one hand, you are conducting a case against certain persons, which can last for 30 days, and on the other hand, someone has filed a request and you do not settle for the next five months. The one against whom proceedings are not conducted and for whom no solution has been issued will have a favourable position on the market. It will eliminate the competition it has with its fellow importers.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21499	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Does any other parliamentary group want to talk about the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 51 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Simonovic. The government does not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21500	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we now have a certain inconsistencies and inconsistencies of the motion itself regarding the law that was written. One of the members says: temporary measures can remain in force for six months. So, the provisional measures that the Government can impose, on a proposal from the competent ministry (meaning, introducing compensatory or anti-dumping margins, in fact - tax), can take a maximum of six months, Mr. Minister. That's what you wrote in the law. According to Article 51 of the investigation procedure, the occurrence of dumping may take up to 12 months. Will you, Mr. Minister, bring the same temporary measure twice? One amendment, submitted by Serbian Radical Party MPs, required that the temporary measure be in effect for 12 months. So, just as long as it takes the interrogation procedure, according to your proposal, and that the test procedure is reduced to three months. So you could have accepted one of these two amendments and that the law itself would be consistent from member to member. Now we have a situation where a temporary measure, which will remove a certain consequence, can be applied for six months, but you're making a decision whether or not the consequence exists for 12 months. What happens when the first six months expire, with the imposition of a temporary measure? Did the promoter leave the possibility that he was still extending it or not? How this will now work and whether there will be a vacuum in this process, which will allow for a smooth, at the end of the temporary measures, and until the end of the process, one bad effect on the market to continue. It means he goes back to his original state and continues. Whether it will be determined, in the end, a compensatory tax, whether it will be in the process of testing to determine whether or not it has occurred, it is another story. But a logical question arises as to what will happen between the expiry of the provisional measure and the expiry of the deadlines for the completion of the examination process. National MP Dragoljub Simonovic submitted an amendment on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party to replace the 12-month deadline with a three-month deadline. That's quite enough. In the whole study process, there is no need to obtain a lot of documentation, especially when the law is applied, but for various types of goods to have certain parameters on earlier procedures etc. and you will be able, on the basis of previous procedures, to determine whether there is a harmful phenomenon on the market or not. The deadline of 12 months is one fine correspondence between the persons against whom the proceedings and the Ministry are conducted. You, for example, to solve the tax administration – why not, means, when it comes to the state and when it comes to the solution of the issue – for example, you have the right to appeal within seven days, but the appeal does not delay the execution of that solution. The question arises as to why so many deadlines in the first place to collect documents of the persons against whom the proceedings are being conducted. It is very easy to determine whether it is present on the market or not: on the basis of the customs invoice, customs declarations, various other documents which may be against which the procedure is being conducted to deliver. You have all possible parameters to determine whether there is one adverse effect on the market or not. So, with the extension of these deadlines, there's a feeling that the proposer, at least temporarily, puts his head in the sand by avoiding following one of these laws; it means delaying. The consequences that can be caused by this delay, we have talked about them several times – some and can be removed during some time period, and for some it takes tens of years.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21501	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Does anyone else want to talk about the amendment of MP Dragoljub Simonovic? No, I don't. Thank you. The government has submitted to Article 55 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The 56th Amendment was submitted by the Government. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic to Article 58. The government does not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21502	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 58 regulates measures to protect against excessive imports of goods. We are all aware of the consequences that so far excessive imports of goods have had in our market. There have been several cases of excessive imports, mostly of sensitive origin, mostly of food goods; and not to mention other goods of broad consumption, especially in the case of goods that have the character of permanent goods with a limited duration, means ten years, so now in the country we no longer have some branch economy. Yesterday, the debate highlighted that we no longer have the white industry, the electronics industry. So, all those who showed up on the Republic of Serbia's market have squeezed out domestic production, ruined it, and so ruined we put it in the privatisation process, hoping that someone ruined the economy would buy it. These are the consequences of excessive imports, when it comes to industrial production. When it comes to food production, which is still and how it participates in gross national income... And even when the Government of the Republic of Serbia likes to boast about its successes, it provides statistics, so it says – the price rises to a little, reduced due to that, or smaller compared to last year, it is in the largest number of cases due to the reduction in the prices of basic agricultural and food products. The reason for the reduction in these prices lies mostly in the law of supply and market demand, so that, on the other hand, the government cannot say it is successful. More than once, I will repeat that now, there have been adverse consequences for the country, whether because of excessive imports or exports. I set an example for 1997, when the price of basic life supplies, in particular meat, was low on the market, when, because of some social peace, a financial lobby decided to use this low social price, not to make more money for those who produce these goods, but to allow themselves extraprofits. So, most often, they exported meat and, quite often, live cattle, where the damage is even greater, from the Republic of Serbia to the Republic in the environment and even a little further. They caused such disturbances on the market that the maltenes led to the collapse of the entire economy. The entire business and financial system was threatened with this kind of behavior, so we had a situation where the stamp from July to August jumped from three to six dinars by the end of the year. This phenomenon occurred then, in that period, which only shows how serious the consequences can be for the country, related to excessive imports or exports. On the other hand, we had the liberalisation of imports during 2001 and 2003, with all possible import licences for certain products. What was most imported into the territory of the Republic at that point was exactly what we had on our market, and these were food products. In particular, meat has been imported, and in order for the damage to be even greater, machinery meat has been imported; in the West it is often banned from human consumption, but it has nevertheless appeared on the market and disrupted relations. On the market, milk, milk products and so on were imported, so essentially there was a drop in the price of live cattle below the economic price, below the cost of the producer itself, which resulted in producers deciding that they are no longer engaged in this activity. Now you already have from year to year these problems, especially when large seasonal consumption of agricultural products, are not enough on the market. Not to mention how the producers themselves, the most peasants, were ruined by one policy like this, Mr. Minister, which you jumped here yesterday and said that Serbia had seen on October 5th, that everything was starting to get better. Even the Committee on Agriculture considered these adverse consequences that were in 2002 and 2003, and I can tell you, Mr. Minister, it may be funny to you, but the documentation given to the members of the Committee on Agriculture and all opposition MPs was collected, they had no right to bring it out, although they did not have the mark - official secret or state secret. Ask the question who could have had so much power when it came to the work of a congregation body that the documents that the members of the Agriculture Committee had in one way were kidnapped; they didn't even see what was stolen from the purse, they were taking other papers that had nothing to do with the Serbian Parliament. Who could have done that? Probably someone, and why -- probably because someone involved in these affairs was either from the government or close to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So that's the consequences. With his wish for extraprofits, someone ruined the domestic economy, and he participated in the executive government. This is about temporary measures. As you can see in the entire law, the deadlines for reviewing certain things are a year. Therefore, Article 58 states: "The Government, on a proposal from the Ministry, may, in urgent cases, impose a provisional rate of additional import duty for a maximum period of 200 days, if it is established in the examination procedure: 1) that the increased imports caused or threatened to cause serious injury. "Here at this point he can only write – that the increased imports caused because he can't threaten. As soon as it's imported, the damage exists, it's just a question of when it's going to come, because of the very distribution of goods and so on. Further: "2) if the delay would cause severe adverse effects to occur. "We talked about these consequences, Mr. Minister. Domestic farmers, whether combined, legal persons, entrepreneurs or individual agricultural producers, still suffer damages from 2001, 2002 and 2003. Furthermore, the temporary measure referred to in Article 1 shall take effect at the earliest eight days from the date of publication. If the examination procedure determines that the increased imports did not cause or threaten to cause serious damage to domestic producers, the amount charged on the basis of Article 1... Nothing disputed, but MP Ivan Radic, who submitted this amendment on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, asked that the deadline for the introduction of provisional measures be increased from 200 days to a year, as all deadlines for the examination by the ministry are one year. Avoid more parallel rights with the countries of the European Union. They have extremely strong financial power, their economy is much more vital than ours. Even if some harmful consequences arise for them, they will only be financial, hardly cause bankruptcy by a single economic operator. They have a developed banking system and a customs system, they have the ability to protect themselves. They can afford the luxury of big deadlines, but Serbia cannot. One seemingly small insignificant disturbance on the market can in a chain cause a whole series of economic operators to collapse, as such a single disorder is the production, market chains, and that is the problem. It seems to me that the promoter may have had a good wish with one of these laws, but only if the law gets to that level that no abuse is possible, will that good desire and good intention be realized. So, with some deadlines for those who can do harm, and they're too big for a country that should react, they're not limited, I'm simply losing my sense of purpose. Mr. Minister, I would recommend something to you: if you are not ready here, for the sake of the public or the policy you are leading, to accept the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party, take and review these amendments, take the stenograms of the People's MPs of the Serbian Radical Party that have explained the amendments, study it, do changes and supplement this law and do not be ashamed of it. Before you, Aleksandar Vlahovic, Bozidar Djelic, has done so now, Mladjan Dinkic, means, through changes and additions, in fact, the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21503	Wait a minute, does anyone else want a word from the SRS parliamentary group? No, I don't. ) The minister is authorized, apparently, to accept amendments. First, Mr Rafaelovic answered, and then the MP Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21504	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, in addition to all due respect for the colleague who had the best intention of the amendment, I have to express a surprise about what was going on on on the Committee on Agriculture, because I don't know when it happened, because I know it never happened. I have been a member of the Committee on Agriculture since 2001, and I know that no material has ever been taken from any member of the Committee, either by the position, or by opposition. What matters and what happens, we get materials that we weren't satisfied with and I wouldn't mention now which, so we looked for supplements and so on. As for the damage, please, colleague, I always listen to you carefully, so I expect that from you, who deals with agriculture and who is a clean peasant, the biggest damage we have survived was at the time of inflation, and then we both fell apart and combined. Don't forget that someone who took the goods for 1,000 marks, for checks, paid it with 30 marks, and then this and the previous government had to get chestnuts out of the fire. All this about the Committee on Agriculture has absolutely never happened from 2001 to today. That would have to be known, and if it were known, I would have asked the president to examine it, because it certainly wasn't. It's okay to criticise and the opposition should criticise, I always defend the right of the opposition to express its position and criticise, because it's a fundamental and elemental right, but it's not right to say something that wasn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21505	Please, Replica, the People's MP Mr. Veroljub Arsic will explain what this is about. Of course, if it were in this convocation to be reconsidered, but it is not a matter of position or opposition, but a matter of congregation committees. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21506	I said it was nice to the opposition MPs; sir, you were somehow always in power, so you don't seem to understand what the opposition MP means. The Serbian Radical Party had no board members at the time, and only one member of the board was from the SPS, so check whether it happened or not. For the sake of truth, I can tell you that there have been adverse consequences in this conference on the committees and things that shouldn't be on the boards. For example, when it was discussed the actions of the National Bank of Serbia in connection with the closure of certain insurance companies, someone dared to place on that documentation a "official secret", a "state secret" or "extremely confidential", I don't remember any more. The documentation was only available to the members of the Committee. All right, they're members of the Committee, but who could have banned the other MPs from participating in the work of that committee? The session was closed to the public, which means journalists, not MPs. Check that information. I'm sure he's right about that. And this second one is right, or first.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21507	It's not that direction, I'll check it out. There's no need to discuss what the boards were doing at some point. Mr. Arsic explained what was going on, and who was the position, and who was the opposition, I can't remember everything. Here you go, Mr. Vlaovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21508	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, for the sake of truth and Serbian citizens, MPs know, I must say. I'm a member of the Agriculture Committee. I've been to every meeting of the Agriculture Committee. No one's ever taken anyone's material and rolled it around in their purses. Something else: from this pay phone, it has been said that Serbia has been on the move since 2000. It's not, gentlemen. Sunday Serbia started in 1945, when the story started -- it works as long as you can, take as much as you need, when the hosts had cleaned attics and torn mustaches, when they had nothing left. At the time, Yugoslavia was the fifth-sixth country in Europe; in 2000 we inherited it as the last or the last. If 50 years were going to take her down, it takes a lot to build her up. As much as you want to resist, you have to agree with the fact that it's easier to destroy than to create. This comparison in the stories of what we in Europe are going to do, the European economy is stronger, we have no chance – in many segments we have a chance. There's even one thing that's good is that Focic Mehmed-aga says, "You can't win an empire on a beautiful all pipe smoking." We need to change things from the ground up, work, order, discipline, responsibility. The sea of things in this country must change. We can go to Europe, we could do it, we proved it to the world, and the government of Vojislav Kostunica will prove it can.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21509	Since no other parliamentary group has followed this amendment anymore, we are moving on to the next one. The 59th Amendment was submitted by the Government. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 59th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stevica Dedjanski. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The government doesn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21510	Of course, Mr. President, you won't mind if I fill in what Mr. Mika Vlaovic just said. There's a lot of right stuff, you just forgot Micun was riding the priest. That's the one in 1945. We're talking about trends and the decline of Serbian agriculture. That's what you were talking about. At the time, Micunovic was riding priestess. It's a well-known fact. Some pulled a mustache, some riding stories, important that they were all on the same path to destroy the Serb village, starting with the moment when they destroyed both family cooperatives and farmers made industrial workers, addicts of power, etc. That's not what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21511	Mr. Krasic, I fully accept this depression and I'll give you back your time as an old man, Focho, 50 years old.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21512	Before I leave with this Article 59, I would only ask that you pay attention to Article 53(5). Why pay attention? If there's a possibility that you can intervene with some amendment, it would be good, for the simple reason that you're introducing the principle of retroactiveness here, and you'll agree that it's forbidden. (Milan Parivodić, from the site: Except in exceptional cases, individual provisions of the law... Constitutional provision. ) I agree on the constitutional provision, but just to draw your attention that this cannot be applied to the situation prescribed by Article 5. You're here for one final condition, the goods are in, imported, after 90 days, creating some obligation that a man would not have imported the goods to know. I assume you understand what this is all about. As far as I'm concerned, you don't have to do anything with this member, but this is a classic example of retroactivity. Example of illicit retroactivity. If you insist on this, you have no legal certainty, no security in the transport of goods and services. That's the kind thing, if you're willing to pay attention. Article 59 refers to quantitative limits, and this refers primarily to imports. You're here as a parameter based on which you conclude that the time has come to introduce this quantitative restriction has taken three years' traffic of that goods, before the beginning of the time when you've established excessive imports of certain goods. It seems a little complicated, but it comes down to it. We're asking for an amendment to replace this three-year-old with a five-year-old. Someone's gonna say it's a meaningless difference, what it means now. We say, however, that the five-year period gives a more objective picture of market developments and the state of transport of certain goods on our market. You'll agree, let's say, if we take these five years since 2000, you have one more complete picture of the situation on the market for a particular commodity than to go back three years. If you go back three years, you'll see... And I have to remind you, you probably know, when it was brought into this National Assembly of the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, I think that in the first article of Article 2 of that Law, it says that the National Bank is responsible for the stability of the price. I want to say that monetary policy and how it has affected market movements, defines market movements, defines ultimately supply and demand in the market, defines both imports and exports. If you look at only this three-year period, you will get a completely different picture of the state, i.e. the supply and demand of some types of goods on our market. If you take a five-year period, you'll probably see different data. In order to take a more objective view of the situation on the market, since it guides you whether you will introduce these quantitative restrictions when it comes to importing certain goods, a much better picture is obtained if you take a five-year period, because within five years, many things happen not only from the point of view of monetary policy, the financial market, but also from the impact that budget and public spending have on the movement of our market. In one period, you know, the budget can be, as they say, stabilising, at one point developmental, and all of this affects the movement on our market. We think that if you get data on the annual traffic of goods in a five-year period, you have a far better and far better picture of what is happening on our market. So it won't be a big deal if you don't adopt the amendment, but make sure it's a more objective picture if you take this longer view period.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21513	National MP Mika Vlaovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21514	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I'm inclined to believe what Mr. Krasic said, because he's a serious man. However, something not nice, Micunovic is not here, I am not his lawyer, and it is not nice to talk about him. I can still stand in his defense in a certain way. At that time, he was 18 years old, and the intoxication of a political ideology can be justified. Luckily, he sobered up in time. Unfortunately, in Serbia there are still drunk with this ideology, which cannot be sobered.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21515	The opiate law will be at the next session. Anyone else on the amendment to article 59? MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21516	In an amendment to Article 59, submitted by MP Stevica Dedjanski on behalf of the SRS, it is required not to take a three-year average, but to take a five-year average. In order to make it clearer, I will read the whole article – if a quantitative limit is introduced as a safeguard measure, imports cannot be limited to a quantity less than the average quantity of imports over a three-year period preceding the excessive import period. Statistically, the data to be taken by the ministry, or the government of the Republic of Serbia, should apply to three years. However, self-inflicted imports often do not move in some period of years, two or even three. Therefore, if the proposed solution remained, the quantities covered by this excessive imports, i.e. the quantity of goods which could be imported would be higher in any case. Some five-year deadline is much more precise for the government, much more information the government can have when it determines the quantities it will be able to import to that limit. I don't see why the government, or the government's authorised representative, is avoiding in one particular way to protect the domestic economy for a period of five years. The procedure itself, technically, is, firstly necessary, with the beginning of that import, to secure the market for the goods, to acquire a habit with consumers. It's been going on for about three years. If there was no need for that goods on the market in the previous two years, because domestic goods have already existed and been present, we will take into account, for some period of five years, when these goods were not on the market, or there have been much less than in three backwards. If the domestic economy was able to spread without imports and sell goods on the market, I don't see why it would take a three-year average and it would serve as some kind of parameter. It would be more realistic if it were five years back. It is likely that those quantities that would be covered would be less. On the one hand, the state will have damages when it comes to customs, and on the other hand it will benefit, because the domestic economy will place more of its goods on the market, and in a certain way it will be compensated through the salaries of workers, that is, the tax on contributions they pay when receiving their own income, without talking about when the salary is paid that it is ultimately spent on buying goods, and again through certain fiscal payments to the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21517	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 61 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government does not accept this amendment. Here you go, Mr. Ilich.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21518	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 61. The proposal for a law on foreign trade, which reads: in Article 61(1), the words "four years" are replaced by the words "five years". With this amendment, on behalf of the parliamentary group, I ask that this article should take a maximum of five years, instead of four, to improve the efficiency of the measures taken, although it also shows here that the ministry will lead the main word and in the event of an extension of the measure. More specifically, the path of abuse has been opened, for the closure of the markets for certain companies and companies that can represent serious competition for companies interested in the market in the Republic of Serbia, which have their protectors in particular ministries, or in the government itself. When I talk about this amendment, the right question would be for those who have written this legislative proposal – whether it is necessary to implement protection measures in this system of values in which the Republic of Serbia is presently located, in relation to the EU, the IMF, and the NATO Pact, among other things. Who can we even forbid to place goods on our market? Does this form work with the written law on foreign trade? The government, which is being set up by the IMF's budget, the government that one Solana is forcing to break the constitution, the government that is about to walk into the sovereign territory of NATO soldiers, the government that has been ordered by the Hague inquisitors to arrest and deliver, will not be able to implement this. The Serbian government, which nearly destroyed its own army due to the directives on the outside, the government that will destroy agricultural production in Serbia because of quotas imposed from the EU, will not even be allowed to think that it prescribes protection measures for companies and businesses, both foreign and Serbian, which will import goods from foreign producers for our market. We only remember how this was resolved recently, when the stock fund in Serbia was ruined, as well as fruit growers, vegetables producers, uncontrollable imports of exactly these agricultural products by the former DOS government, some of which are sitting in today's office as well. Then prices fell below every real level and therefore meat came to our market from all over Brazil, vegetables from the Netherlands, fruits from Italy, wine from France, etc. That's right now. Imported food originating in other countries has almost everywhere. Genetically modified plant varieties give about beautiful products, which our manufacturer still fails to achieve, but the question is how healthy and acceptable it is for human consumption. Now someone from the Serbian government will lower the ramp to powerful companies from the EU, the US and other countries to penetrate the Serbian market under the law. Start, if you want to deny me, as soon as this law is passed, protect our electronics industry, the metal complex, furniture factories, the wood industry, because it's obvious that they've been in a difficult situation for a long time because of the loss of the market. This problem can also be viewed in the opposite direction. It is known that in the process of robbery privatisation, our large and strategic enterprises are sold to foreign companies, so that certain branches of the Serbian industry are literally in their hands, such as. The production of cement within the construction industry or, say, the chemical industry, whose sale is at the end, that I'm not talking about tobacco industry, sugars, etc. Now they can simply, by holding that monopoly, dictate the price level on the market without the state reacting to intervention imports in order to protect consumers if prices are significantly lower in the immediate environment. Does this mean that governments are tied hands because they have to stand up to powerful companies that own these companies, and seats are across the EU, the United States or other countries, or are it about the interest of individuals in the government not to respond and to protect consumers? In the end, I would say again that this law will not apply, that is, the protection measures that you have provided for in article 61, unless it is a controversial case that you will be coming under your control. I'd like to see you prescribe a protection measure -- a ban on importing apples from Italy, vegetables from the Netherlands, wines from France, etc. You won't be able to, because Europe won't let you. Another reason for accepting the amendment is that a temporary protection measure enters this deadline, and thus extending the deadline to five years instead of to four is necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21519	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. We'll give the break as soon as we finish the discussion in detail under this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21520	Ladies and gentlemen, there are now certain illogicalities in the conduct of the ruling majority. When it comes to functions, salaries in state authorities, five, six, if they could write for ten years, and when it comes to implementing some safeguard measures, that's where deadlines are cut. We had before this law a law on the Supreme State Auditing Institution, so the Supreme State Auditor has a term of office for six years, members of the Council for six years, secretary of councils for six years, etc. So, when it comes to wages, it increases deadlines, and when it comes to protecting domestic economy and citizens, there are already shorter deadlines. Thus, Article 61 states: "The protection measure remains in force as long as it is necessary to remove the damage, and for the longest four years since its introduction, including the period of application of the temporary protection measure. "So the temporary protection measure, which can last for 200 days, enters that deadline as long as the protection measure can last. The amendment's proposed MP, Radisa Ilic, who submitted an amendment on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, asked for the deadline to be increased to five years. It is in the least surprising why the Ministry, or the authorised representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, does not accept this amendment, because the following attitude shows something else: "Extremely from the provision of the position of the first member of the Government, on a proposal from the Ministry, may extend the period of application of the protection measures if it finds that the application of the protection measures is still necessary to prevent or eliminate the consequences of serious damage" etc. The application of the measure can be increased even to eight years, but on a proposal from the competent ministry, it means it will not be regulated by the law itself, so the question arises why the proposing authority does not simply accept the amendment proposed by MP Radisa Ilic. It has already been said more than once from this pay phone that most of the temporary safeguard measures, which the state needs to implement, are in one of the only more serious goals, which is to allow a faster and more stable recovery of the Serbian economy. I view this law as an attempt, so it means that our economy, as it is, with those branches that are our traditional, can participate equally on the domestic market and later on in the world. In order for it to be present on the EU countries' world or market, it must first be able to cope with competition on the domestic market. It's not a story that we're not going to Europe, it's simply like we're not able to play by their rules right now, and it's clear to everyone. Why do you stick your head in the sand and not admit it? The state needs certain administrative measures to make it possible for the economy, but it cannot do so by being able to import into Serbia whoever arrives and however they want. We need to make a serious national strategy on how to do it, not just listen to their dictatorships, some compromise to do it. So simply by looking at their comparative rights, their economy is more capable and vital than ours anyway. What can essentially be placed on the market of EU countries? He can do what they don't have. It's mostly dirty technology and it allows. What would poison their citizens will not be made in their country, but will be created in smaller countries in an environment that are financially unable to place anything else on their market. Why are you running away from that? They simply view us as a market, on the one hand, as a poverty base for some of their branches of economy; and on the other hand, they see their industry, the dirty technology that pollutes the environment from their country and their attitudes, for example, in Serbia's territory. We always have to play by their rules and their dictatorships. In my opinion, this amendment, submitted by Parliamentarian Radisa Ilic, gives the proposal to the government of the Republic of Serbia, however, some major powers are laid down by law, not by some sublaw and other regulations that any government can change whenever it comes to mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21521	Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 62 of the amendment was submitted by MP John Day. The government does not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger John Day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21522	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 62. The proposal for a law on foreign trade, and I propose that Article 62 be changed to the extent that attitude 1 is changed and reads as follows: "The government gradually reduces once a year the level of protection measures applied for more than one year". The Serbian Radical Party considers that the protection measures on imports of goods referred to in Article 55 of this proposal should be carried out at least once a year and such a solution should be proposed in the law, as I have formulated by amendment, because otherwise, if the proposed member is applied, the government will not be obliged to reduce the level of protection annually and even for a longer period of time. How much government will be able to control all of this and how, when we know who dictates market conditions, what is the situation in the economy and the state. We know that market conditions dictate tycoons by means of money through individual ministers, who are already known for various affairs, so how will a compromised government be able to apply one of these laws? Because of all this, I suggest you adopt this amendment of mine, because otherwise there will be no reduction in the degree of protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21523	Thank you, Mr. Daya. Anyone else want to talk about the same amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21524	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in article 62, it is regulated to reduce the measures imposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is based on this law. It is said that they can last four years, etc., and the 1st position says: "The government, in regular periods of time, gradually reduces the degree of protection measures that apply for more than one year." I would understand the promoter to reject the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party because they have written – once every three months or once in six months, so that is the difference of some concept, rules, ideologies, conceptual etc., but Article 62 of Title 1 does not say what time periods these are when the government will gradually reduce protection measures to certain goods from imports. You can't say that anywhere in the bill itself. So the government can do that in regular times. It literally means every day, I just don't see what parameters he'll be able to take every day to reduce protection measures. Maybe she'll think of doing it once every ten days, once in a month, two months. Does this mean that, depending on who the importer is and who they're referring to, the government will do it from case to case? So, in some it will be five or ten days, for those for whom protection measures should be reduced, and for those who are not close to the Government of the Republic of Serbia it can be once every two years. So someone in two years will not have the right to reduce certain protection measures that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will establish. This amendment, submitted by MP Jovan Daja, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, required that the period be one year. Why? First, it came from the assumption that some minimum protection measure was a year. So something must take a year to determine the results of that measure, whether it really makes sense to maintain one measure of protection or not. This can be seen through the movement of goods on the market etc. It can also be seen through the interest of importers in this type of goods, perhaps asking for certain permits. So that deadline of a year would be quite acceptable. The government would be a little distracted about that. The damage might only have importers. In any case, the damage could not have the citizens of the Republic of Serbia or the economy of the Republic of Serbia; it means that only those who want to earn money in a certain way, endangering the state's interest, would be at risk. I don't see why an authorised representative of the motionor won't accept this amendment. I must point out that he doesn't essentially change the spirit of the law. Simply, the government creates one obligation, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, restricts in one part its work that it cannot be privileged to implement some safeguard measures. So, a year goes for everything. So the measure has been introduced and it applies to everything, not from case to case. This means that for a long time on the market in various financial and other speculations, in electricity, oil trade, oil derivatives has been produced by one group of people. It is so financially powerful that, behold, the government of the Republic of Serbia still has to keep the import regulations on oil and oil derivatives in place. So he's not free, liberalized oil imports and oil derivatives. That's why you don't get "packs" from the European Union. Few Macedonians rebelled, but it took a while. So you didn't have any consequences about it. The government, therefore, has decided that at least one part of the economy is protecting itself, because it may be in the majority of state capital, so they see that through the privatisation of these public enterprises, they earn some money, they reduce their value in sales, but when they pay that they may be shared credentials with some accounts on some islands in some ocean or sea. So then the Government of the Republic of Serbia applies measures that are contrary to politics, both the EU and the WTO and no one. Now another question is being asked – why do you keep it in place? You don't even trust your national authorities, the bodies you're directly involved in, you can interfere, you're not even sure they're going to enforce customs laws, etc. So you're not sure about law enforcement by state authorities, and now you're looking for a slightly funny way, you're declaring that you're in favour of EU and WTO policy. I think the acceptance of this amendment would prevent certain persons participating in foreign trade from having a privileged position compared to others.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21525	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Does any other parliamentary group want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. Ambassador Branislav Blazic submitted to Article 63 of the amendment. The government does not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Mr. Krasic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21526	We're asking the amendment to delete article 63. He also refers not to any temporary measures. Probably, given the practice so far, that this amendment is also not accepted by the Government. I'm out, Mr. President, to speed up this procedure a little bit, and Mr. Milajic won't mind me commenting on this amendment to article 74.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21527	I'm sorry, Mr. Krasic, there's no reason, because of the article 74. The government and Mr. Milajic have submitted an amendment in the same text. The government withdraws its amendment and accepts Mr. Milajic's amendment and you do not have to comment on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21528	It's good, because what was in article 74 is illogical, that the government draws its powers out of the law and has it based on the Constitution. Since this amendment to Article 63 probably won't be accepted, I would draw attention to the government's representatives to page 12 of the reasons, where it writes – Feedback fact. That's where you started with the words, "How does the draft contain... ". This, Minister, is a proposal, and it's not a draft. This material was prepared for something else, probably for the government, so they missed these mistakes. But it's not just retroactive application of the provisions relating to violations, because I just said there's another one where retroactiveness is installed. Finally, since we have told enough about this law, it is not necessary to waste time now, since it is obvious that attitudes are different and that everyone is sticking to their views. This law can have exceptional meaning, and it can be meaningless. Seventy percent of the laws the National Assembly has passed over the past four years are almost inapplicable. In the end, ask people from economic, legal and other universities, who are professionally involved in these areas, you will see that they can only show a disagreement whether it is 70%, 80%, or another percentage. As important as it is for the application of every law, it is also important for this law which applies it, as it applies it, or whether it applies it at all. This law, or law similar to this, in all countries, has the task of introducing order on the market and protecting domestic production. It's undeniable. As it looks from state to state, I'll use a few examples to explain it. In the period when the former SFRY was to be destroyed economically, those from abroad who had either had a task or set themselves the goal of breaking up the SFRY, of building a Danube region, of dismembering, of destroying our army, of making the economy, economic and national space worthless, etc. They made it possible to smuggle cigarettes, drugs, oil derivatives. No one could stop it. Whether it went through Cyprus, planes to Podgorica or it went through the Great Trnovec, no one could protect it. I'll take an example that exists, the public in America is familiar with that. Democracy prevailed in Afghanistan, which came with NATO boots. Currently, a man who is a military minister is involved in opium production and sales. America favorably looks at it because five years of drought in Afghanistan, and in other ways they cannot provide funds, so they look favorably at it. They also favor drug trafficking from Kosovo and Metohija, which goes across Europe. So, interests. Interests are what guides. Of course, I don't claim that our country is similarly pursuing these interests, through unauthorized funds and unauthorized targets. Probably no one could conclude that I plead that this is where it's being arranged. You probably know that there is a New York city, and there is still a big litigation, because all the big companies dealing with the production and transport of cigarettes are based in New York because of some other tax policy, where EU countries have sued 10 of the largest producers and are seeking compensation, I think it's about $10 billion, on the name of lost revenues based on smuggling that went through Montenegro, Cyprus, etc. You probably know that. You probably know there's a big dispute with the Vatican bank in San Francisco over Nazi money and gold, through which Ustasha emigration and breaking up the former SFRY is financed. Interests again. You're probably aware that the mafia that rules the chemical industry, the wider one can put pharmaceutical, basic raw materials in third-world countries, undeveloped countries, it used to be India, now it's pretty much represented China, where dirty technologies are present, where in various ways these basic raw materials come in, here are being upgraded and the audience seems dependent, and even on drugs and products. Interests again and always interests. In all this, I just want to confirm, we ask the government, this and future and all governments to take care of the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the interests of our economy, law and order. This is the only reason why we have submitted amendments to this bill, a deep awareness of the fact that with many provisions concerning dumping for the first time in the normative sphere, we are getting into this problem a little deeper. It's the first time. Perhaps there are also normative mistakes that time will show, whether they are large, small, removable, or indeterminate, in some ways make sure that we have some understanding. That is why we may have made some mistakes when we proposed the amendment - whether it is 60 or 30 days, for the simple reason that what is parallel practice in the environment, which is EU rules, as a rule, when it is copied and implemented in our country does not always give the expected results. It's just that there's some specificity here that we're all probably all aware of. In that sense, interpret these amendments. I call on MPs to accept a good part of the amendment, because above all they are in a position to improve this law a little bit, to determine the right measure of what is objective, the right measure as long as the Government, the state, the state authorities can interfere and measure how and how much we need to protect the interests of our economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21529	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Since no one's answering for this amendment anymore, we're moving on to the next amendment. The Government has submitted to Article 69 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The Government has submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The Government has submitted to Article 73 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. As I have informed you, Members of the 74th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Vojislav Milajic and the Government. The government withdrew its amendment and accepted Mr. Milajic's amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The government has submitted to Article 77 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does the representative of the proponent Dr Milan Parivodic, Minister of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, want to give the final word? Yeah. ) Here you are, Mr. Parivodic, based on Article 142. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21530	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament, I must confess that working with you on this text has been a pleasure to me. I think the contribution the Serbian Radical Party made was useful. I accepted everything I thought would improve the text or not make it worse. So that was my approach. I think we're going to have one law for the future and we're leaving the past with the abolition of the existing law. It's one of the relics of another economic system. I expect radicals to vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21531	Thank you. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. After an hour's break, which will take up to 15.25 hours, we move on to a specific search and we will work today until the end of that point, therefore, of the draft law on tobacco. Thank you all for your efficiency. [[After break – 15.40]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we continue our afternoon work, please receive my deepest apology, I am more than ten minutes late, or 12.5 minutes, but you must admit that it is wonderful – so to this extent we all work together exactly that it panics immediately when 10 or 12 minutes are late. You saw, the media made a big noise that in a day that wasn't supposed to work at all, in the Assembly that was able to make up for it, at one point there was no quorum, and remember, a few months ago, it was normal not to work for days during 2003, seven months. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once again a good day. We are continuing the afternoon work of today's session. We move to the 12th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE DUVAN (specificity) As I have announced during the afternoon session, we will be working today until the end of the search in details of the 12th item of the agenda. You have received amendments submitted under the bill by the MPs: Slobodan Zivkucin, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Krstin, Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mirčić, Vojislav Milajić, Miljko Četrović, Darko Glisic, Veroljub Arsic, Momir Marković, Igor Bečić, Zlatan Jovanovic, Natasa Jovanovic, Branislav Rankic, Mileta Poscurica, Goran Dunjic, Zivojin Stefanović and Brance Stojanović, and the Government. In writing, the government withdrew the amendment to Article 36. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21533	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to repeat some of the things that we from the Serbian Radical Party have been saying in the principle debate on the draft tobacco law, simply because this principle debate has been delivered, thanks to this poor Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, but we need to remember what we are talking about today. The key issue when it comes to the tobacco law is how the law on tobacco on behalf of the government, but the government of the Republic of Serbia, the president, is represented here by Finance Ministry, or absent Minister Mladjan Dinkic. How is it that Mladjan Dinkic and the Ministry of Finance, i.e. before I tell the Ministry of Finance and Mladjan Dinkic, find themselves in every stew where there are concrete and large money, where there are any ravings, especially when it is made possible by law. We asked the minister and in that principle debate, but the minister wasn't there, neither today; frankly, we didn't expect him, because he doesn't have the guts to stand in front of the MPs anymore, but we're going to have to use that right of ours from the Rules of Procedure, so we're going to call him a little bit and ask him here to answer some questions. The tobacco law has some really fundamental shortcomings, which we talked about in the principle debate, which we tried to correct through the amendments submitted. I see that we have received the government's opinion and the amendments are of course not accepted and it is nothing new for the SRS. We would be surprised that Dinkic accidentally accepted some of our amendments. Then it would mean that he tried to normally think as finance minister, since all of our amendments are such that we try to bring the proposed text of the law into such a form that it really is appropriate to our legal system, to be applicable and to prevent or minimise possible abuses by applying the law. In this law, everything is the opposite of that. One of the important obstacles, which concerns several members of this law, is that the law does not provide for two-stageness. That, according to the Serbian Radical Party, is unacceptable. We can't legally promote that people's "When you're sued by a cadiya," because there has to be two stages in every procedure. Without it, it's really shutting down some basic human rights. From the beginning of my story, as far as the finance minister who put his foot on the tobacco with this law is concerned, it is also seen through the fact that through all the members where the Ministry of Finance's jurisdiction should have been foreseen, a fine man predicted himself, and all where he should stand - the Ministry of Finance, instead stands - the finance minister. It is only luck that Mladjan Dinkic will not be finance minister for much longer, so we will avoid that kind of abuse. The law is called - the draft law on tobacco, and as you have conjectured it, as the government has freely agreed it can be called - the law on the protection of the monopoly Stanko Subotic called Cana Frog. That's the one we Serbian radicals have been talking about since 2000, about which the book was published, with which I run certain court disputes. So, this Cane Frog was in good "business" relations and dealt with again with Zoran Djindjic, then Djelic, and now Mladjan Dinkic through this law puts him in a position to protect him by law, that this law protects his monopoly in this area. I have submitted an amendment to Article 9, and Article 9 is talking about manufacturers and conditions for tobacco production. Article 9(1) states: "The production of tobacco can deal with a company, a company, an agricultural cooperative and an entrepreneur (hereinafter: a business entity), which meets the following conditions... ". Then there are a number of conditions that need to be met by someone who can do tobacco production. We in the Serbian Radical Party think a major failure has been made here, that our farmers have been brought into an unequal position with this first position of Article 9. A bill of this law, that our farmers are forced into agricultural relations with producers like Canet Frog. That's why we suggested that tobacco production can deal with companies, businesses, agricultural cooperatives, farmers and entrepreneurs. Of course, in the case of farmers, these conditions should also make certain adjustments, points 4 and 5), that is the subject of the next amendment, they are deleted, because it is not logical that the farmer must be registered in the register of business entities for the performance of this activity, that he has concluded pre-contracts with the tobacco processor, that the responsible person in the economic operator in the last three years preceding the day of application is not legally convicted in the territory of the Republic, etc. So, we Serbian radicals think it's not good to talk about farmers and to take good care of farmers only at the time of election campaigns and then the parties are trying to get a number of votes from our farmers because they promise towers and cities, like this party, Mladjan Dinkic, who promised that agriculture would flourish, that they would give favourable agricultural loans, so the job would be nothing. They already know all the citizens how many loans were split, who got those loans, who didn't have a chance to get them, but it's not a topic, and I'm not going to talk about it today. The theme is how the government of the Republic of Serbia cheats and lies to farmers, peasants. If that weren't the case, then the government would remember that farmers with a certain area of the country are allowed to do tobacco production on their own. He's not our hillbilly. Why does he need someone who's going to be Mr. Producer, who's going to tour the villages, who's going to visit the estates, who's going to take that tobacco that our farmer planted, raised, picked up, finished everything, he knows everything, and he's the only one who doesn't know that he's called the manufacturer, but he needs the Cane Frog to abuse him and bring him into a slave-owned position on his own country. We Serbian radicals think it was necessary to include it in this bill. Honestly, we didn't expect the minister to accept it because he would spoil a man's affairs, but we expected there to be another serious man in the government of the Republic of Serbia and that he would accept this amendment. Of course, we can see that no amendment has been accepted, but that's why I expect at least from the MPs... Because, fellow MPs, we are you, at least we from the Serbian Radical Party are, I don't know if you're doing your job like that every day with your people, with voters, with citizens in Serbia, and I don't know how you're gonna get into some village with some peasant who has five acres of land and who can't be a tobacco producer, but he can produce tobacco and he'll do it, but for a lot less money, for a percentage there, for something as much as the buyer who's going to be, in fact, is a buyer, and according to this bill is a manufacturer, yes, Cane, of course. You, or the Government, have said that this amendment does not accept for the same reasons given for the amendment to Article 9(1). It's a bill of law. Gentlemen of the Government, you are not here, but I hope you will be familiar with what is being done in this House, never again be so insolent and so insolent about the SRS, because the amendment that I have submitted on behalf of our parliamentary group is not identical with the amendment of MPs Živojin Stefanovic and Brancet Stojanović. They have been given an explanation for their amendment for why it is not accepted, and then it is said that the same explanation is for the amendment submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. It is not good for the government to have such an irresponsible relationship with this Parliament and with the MPs. They could have given an officer who did this, and it certainly wouldn't have been difficult for that man to write another explanation, of course, as he was told, not just to prescribe from one member to another. But since this is an explanation relating to my amendment, I'm going to introduce you to what the government has said which is why it does not accept this amendment. It says – it is not accepted for the reason that the provision of Article 9(1) is based on Article 1(1). The bill (and I have read exactly that) requires a number of conditions which the company, the company, the agricultural cooperative and the entrepreneur must meet in order to be able to deal with tobacco production, unlike the natural person of the tobacco producer, for which only one condition is prescribed, which is that it has concluded a co-operation contract with the tobacco manufacturer, i.e. with the tobacco processor. This is really inadmissible. This is an explanation, my people, so we're not stupid. How did it occur to anyone to write such an explanation? We're just saying this -- we don't want him to be a cooperative, we want him to be a producer. Why would someone else call themselves a manufacturer, who comes with a bag and a bow in the village, he's a producer, and he who works in the field, who sows, digs, who takes care of the stork, is not the manufacturer. What is he? He's a cooperative. He won't be a farmer, he wants to be a producer. But we don't mind if someone wants to team up and do it; that's why we didn't erase this attitude, but we just added the possibility that, with all that the government had predicted, a farmer himself could be involved in the production of tobacco. Furthermore, the government says, "This means that conditions are created in this way to increase tobacco production, increase production and stimulate the natural person," imagine, "the tobacco producer is producing more quality varieties of domestic tobacco, which are needed by domestic tobacco producers, which also reduces tobacco imports. "Is it clear to anyone what the government here was trying to say, what did it actually say and what the government here opposed this amendment of ours? The team that Stanko Subotić - Cane Frog will go and say – that variety of tobacco you'll produce, and what you can produce another one, which you can place somewhere else, I don't care about, I want you to produce what I need, my Mladja Dinkic by law has allowed me to be Mr. tobacco producer, I will pay you, Serbian farmer, peasant, to pay as much as I can think of, and you... He says there's a growing production. You said in law there was a condition that he had five acres. How many peasants in Serbia who have five hectares per country? There's a lot. Now they cannot be tobacco producers, because Mladjan Dinkic agreed with Canet Subotic to pass a law that, I repeat, the government misnamed the tobacco law. This was supposed to be the law on the protection of Stanko Subotic's monopoly - Caneta Žapca on tobacco, tobacco production, tobacco production, distribution, etc. All that Stanko Sutotic had provided was another one, Zoran Djindjic, when he introduced him into these affairs, and they joined Serbia together with these jobs. Of course, he gave him the money, and now we have a situation that the majority of the congregation, unless they accept our amendments, will vote on the law to preserve Stanko Subotic Canet in the tobacco industry.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21534	Any other parliamentary groups on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Živojin Stefanovic and Brance Stojanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Brance Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21535	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Živojin Stefanovic and I, on behalf of the SPS, have submitted an amendment to Article 9. As we have heard before, Article 9 speaks of tobacco production, or tobacco producers. Our amendment refers to the fact that, in Article 9(1), after the word "earthly cooperative" is placed on the line, the letter "and" is deleted, and after the word "entrepreneur" the words "and the farmer" are added. In the same attitude in point 2) the number and the word "5 ha" are replaced by the number and the word "1 ha". What's the point? We've heard a lot in Mrs. Rade's opening remarks on this amendment. We think that the production of tobacco and how significant it is as agricultural production for some of our agricultural producers, for farmers, it is not good that the law prevents a farmer from competing in the market by direct production with that production, and that we force him to join in the agricultural cooperative and other economic operators, but that he can freely compete on the market with his production. Besides, there's a lot of examples for that kind of thing. In southern Serbia, many people deal with this production. That is why we appeal to the MPs to accept this amendment. Also, why did we propose to replace the words "5 ha" with the words "1 ha"? It's not real in those parts of southern Serbia... The average parcels in Serbia are well below 5 ha, and in southern Serbia it's less than. On the fingers of one hand can count, not to be resented by individual agricultural producers, producers who have their five ha. Such a rigorous attitude about this production... And we all know, especially the people of southern Serbia know that tobacco production deals with people on small parcels. It's small plots, 20 acres. I wish it was more production and it was input production. There are simply no such plots on which to organize production. For these reasons, we appeal to the MPs and to the representatives of the Government to accept this amendment. I don't think there's anything wrong with the law that a farmer, farmer or farmer has an equal position in this law with an entrepreneur, with an agricultural cooperative, with other economic operators, because I think he's been doing this production for a long time, and he deserves it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21536	Does anyone else in your MP group want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21537	Mr. President, I think you need to pay attention to this amendment and the next few amendments concerning this idea solution in Article 9. It's a bill of law. Please make every effort and opportunity to influence the legislator to take into account, when considering these amendments, and the next argument. Agricultural land can be extremely in some special regime. The special regime is prescribed by the law on the exploitation of agricultural land. With such a proposal, you have denied the right of the owner of agricultural land to freely decide on the use of its agricultural land. It's the first thing that's forbidden. I must say, in Article 9, that ban is not explicitly written, but indirectly, through additional conditions. In essence, from what is written in Article 9, it follows that the owner of agricultural land on his agricultural land cannot deal with tobacco farming, exploitation and land treatment for the production of tobacco. So, not directly, but indirectly, it's prescribed, because some abnormal conditions, like five acres, registrations, etc. have been put in place. In this way, the owner of agricultural land has been denied the use of one of the rights protected by the Constitution, which stems from property rights. To remind you, analogous to what this tall mind imagined when it wrote Article 9, that would mean: you have TV, it's your property, but you can't watch it, because your room where the TV is doesn't have 45 squares. That's the analogy. Furthermore, if anyone thinks tobacco production is harmful, then ban tobacco production, such as the ban on growing marijuana and other also agricultural plants or cultures. Bring the law - tobacco production is prohibited. But you don't. I must remind you, in all of the history in this space, in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, no law has ever been passed that prohibits the use of real estate in its citizens. This is the first time. Why? Because a bright mind has come to the conclusion that it can boost and strengthen the monopoly. Whose monopoly? Stanko Subotic called Cana Frog. He's not angry, the whole family's known as the Frogs, on Ubba. It is the man who, according to Jovica Stanisic's orders, has kindly given his business partner Milo Djukanovic 500 thousand dollars to what he was riding, to hold protests in December 1996 and what Albianic boasted about blowing whistles and banging in pots. When the time came to return, you were not the first, the first was Zarko Korać, when they agreed to start building a factory in Kragujevac, etc. After all, it's all beautifully described in the books. Go to Zemun, Number Three Victory Square in the SRS porter, you can find several editions, among other things, with very authentic documents and court-proven things concerning this. It is only to support that this interest is so strong with Mladjan Dinkic that he is able to overcome the Constitution. So if you don't want to produce, you forbid tobacco to be produced, then why are cigarettes even in traffic? Since this new set came to power, since January 25, 2001, we have changed the system of values. I agree that tobacco is harmful to health, both for the one who uses these cigarettes and for the environment. There's no dispute here. I'm sure drugs are also dangerous for those who use it and its environment, not only in health terms, but also in sociological, psychological and all other ways. You'll probably agree with me that and what the theory, the medical science has written that the disease is a sexual bias, also dangerous in one society, but we now have a tendency, it started since the year Bill Clinton denied aid to that agency that deals with the fight against illegal drug trafficking, has some D.E.E.A. abbreviations, when the traffic of these intoxicating assets suddenly flourished, so that, under the auspices of America in Afghanistan, opium is produced and distributed. So we have a new system of values. This new system of values is based on what is a registered disease, homosexuality, getting here in terms of protection of minority rights and banning abuse, discrimination, getting parades, protecting, on television, it promotes it. One of the champions of the five-octobaric coup, imagine, for a wonderful miracle man who's been in rock and roll for a long time, has quite envious results, when asked where he has a New Year's gig, he said - I don't belong anywhere, I don't belong to that drug-using clan, so I didn't get a gig to work. We are encouraged that drugs come as something normal, that these movies that are seen at night come as normal, that it's perfectly normal to see members of the same sex on TV and in life in some positions, it's all normal, but it's extremely forbidden to smoke in a public place and if someone is using cigarettes. To impose that value, Mladjan Dinkic came to the sense that he was going into private property rights. It's no longer a question of taste and commitment. As part of this, the nebuloses that are written should be considered. I'd just like you to turn on article 9 and look at, say, the last attitude: "physical face - tobacco manufacturer". He's the tobacco manufacturer here. How in the first place is that physical face not a tobacco manufacturer? Did anyone in your country make a difference who the cigarette manufacturer is, who's the one who processes the tobacco, who's the one who makes the tobacco? According to what European and world standards is there some restriction that tobacco production must be organised at five hectares? Call Mladjan Dinkic, get him to come and show that regulation. He's gone. Why wasn't this done 20 or 30 years ago, two years ago when the tobacco bill was passed? In 2003, to remind you, some amendments to the Excise Act were adopted and all those who participated in the privatisation of our cigarette production factories were protected so as not to have competition. What's this about? Why can't a farmer or our Serbian peasant on his property grow tobacco, but define it as a cooperative. Isn't the cooperative a manufacturer? What's with the restrictions? You have done something similar to bring the law tomorrow and you say – who wants to do the production of corn can only work if there are 10 hectares, and the production of corn can only be done if it has concluded a cooperative contract with a farmer's cooperative or some combination. Why didn't you ban the production of macaque? Why didn't you ban the production of grapes, make wine out of it? Now they'll ban the production of plums. It's got to be 10 acres. You won't be able to make any more brandy. Look at the mental problems the bill promoter comes before us here. As for the opposition, the one who left will not vote, the ones who are here will not vote, but you who are in power, who support the government, how can you support this? I'm asking the legalists a question. I don't set these G17s up, because the younger ones don't even ask for this. He's got his own personal combinations. Burned that floor, the paperwork went off, and now he can do whatever he wants. But I remind you from the SPS, from the DSS, explain to the villagers - you have to have five acres of land, you have to be cooperative with someone who's a monopolies. Why did you pass the Law against Monopolies? The production of cigarettes is a monopoly, because the state is financed from it. The production of alcoholic beverages is a monopoly, because the state from there is quite funded. You break those monopolies and make monopolies in the interest of Mladjan Dinkic, Canet Zappac and who knows which rare beasts yet, with which nicknames. We don't want to discuss it. Who's the one who can ban the use of agricultural land? So, the next stage, according to this logic – forbidden grape production, that is, if you have a previous contract with a company that has grape producer status. See how many illogical terms there are. I know you don't appreciate this constitution, I know that this constitution bothers you, I know that this constitution seems to remind you of something bad, but also all that you're right, how you can step on it, and yet call on you to be legalists, and yet swear on certain things, etc. Believe me, the way you're going, there will be legalists in this country... You already have action to legalize the use of these easy drugs. You have these musicians, Bajaga and these others. Cheda's got a party now. You remember what Chris Patten said -- Serbia sent me this one to negotiate harmonisation with him. The world is laughing at us because of the representatives who represent us. Go back to something normal, don't underestimate our peasants. Dear peasants, Mladjan Dinkic does not allow you to produce tobacco, and if you produce it, you must first go to someone who is registered and cane frog and similar to it are registered. If this country had taken so much care of tobacco production, this amount of tobacco would not have been imported from Nigeria. All the authorities had problems with cigarette manufacturers and tobacco buyers. You solve that problem. How? That it doesn't exist. You want to banish the smokers. I agree, but with the same effort, banish those who blow up drugs, with the same effort, throw immorality off television, off the squares. You watched Karic on TV, the one who runs the show wanted to faint that rock singer didn't use drugs. That's what's going on with our kids. She's surprised he didn't use drugs. The government is silent. Don't fight it. The government has taken the view that cigarettes should finish the job, and cigarette smokers finance the ones that don't smoke the most. I agree that we should limit them, that smoke doesn't bother those people who don't smoke, everyone will support it, but this is how you destroy our producers. So, expect, peasants, Mladjan Dinkic will otherwise turn around and will condition the production of corn, wheat, plums, grapes and anything in his interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21538	Here you go, Mr. Kronic, according to the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21539	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that after so many discussions it is necessary to say a few words about Article 9, or amendments, which have been submitted to Article 9. You all know that tobacco has always been in all the countries of the state monopoly in history. It is also known that, despite the strong state monopoly in the countries of the Ottoman Empire, in Austria and all other countries in these areas that are ideal for tobacco growing, very high-quality tobacco, i.e. small-scale tobacco products in the territory of the Balkans, Greece, Turkey, Bulgaria, Serbia, Macedonia, Herzegovina, etc. These were always areas where tobacco was smuggled from. All countries in other places, including in these areas, have tried to master exactly the financial flows to prevent smuggling. Since our country is really in the ideal tobacco grower belt, how tiny quality tobacco used in the cigarette industry as spices, i.e. that gives a special flavour to cigarettes, and smokers know when to burn "zeta", or "morava", "drin" that it has its own specific taste and cannot be fooled. In order for this production to be programmed, it is necessary to program and produce small-scale quality tobacco produced in the southern part of the Republic, i.e. large-scale tobacco that serves as a basic cigarette filler. In order to have this logical, technologically justified, programmed production, it is necessary to introduce order and have organized production of precisely certain varieties of tobacco, so that we can produce those kinds of cigarettes that our tobacco industry wants to produce. So, you can't let the so-called. Chaotic production to produce whoever it wants, etc. and then to ask the question – why does no one want this tobacco of mine that I have produced to buy, when I have indeed produced it well and quality. Therefore, it must be planned and programmed production. Of course the state wants to arrange these relationships. We know that not long ago, cigarettes were smuggled, traded, of course, in an illegal way. We've solved this by introducing excise duty and controlling tobacco trade, and of course, in order to have a good production base, we have to have a law that regulates who can be the manufacturer. Therefore, it is generally known that tobacco is produced on small surfaces, not five acres, but 50 acres, as the Dukes would say at half morning, quarter morning, etc. So it's a couple of tens of thousands of tobacco-produced entities. The main intention is that the tobacco manufacturer that organizes the production on these small parcels must be a legal person and cannot be a natural person. But this law does not prohibit what our farmers need to do, which means that five farmers with 500 euros in founding capital can easily organise a farming cooperative and be a legal person, i.e. a stock company and can organise tobacco production. I think the basic purpose of this law is to really put order into one planned and programmed production, because tobacco is and it can also be a good export product, of course with awareness and the fact that tobacco is really harmful, but unfortunately we like to smoke it and we want to have quality cigarettes and programmed tobacco production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21540	Thank you. According to the same amendment, MP Jovan Todorovic has the same word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21541	Ladies and gentlemen, here's to me getting involved in this debate for a moment. I think we may have put things too seriously in this debate and we're too afraid of peasants in some of the provisions of this law. It is understood that Mr Stojanovic's amendment on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group is currently more appropriate to the current situation with regard to areas to which this manufacturer must dispose in tobacco production. He suggested that the area be reduced from a mandatory five-hectare to one hectare. But let's get this over with. In order to deal with tobacco production, there are no restrictions on the land area on which to plant and produce tobacco. It could be 10 acres, 15, 50 acres and a hectare. There's got to be one condition, and that's that he's got a contract to co-operate with whoever registered officially as a tobacco manufacturer. What Mr Krasic was talking about is more about the dorading of tobacco, and it is again another procedure and completely separate from the production of tobacco. Secondly, in Europe the average property is 30 hectares, in America the average property is 300 hectares, in Serbia 3.5 hectares. In Serbia, 3.5 hectares requires three workers, in Europe for 30 hectares of also three workers, in America for 300 hectares of three workers, father and son, as a rule, and a truck driver or another freight vehicle, which at the same time drives combiners, tractors, all that is used to process those 300 hectares. What am I talking about? I'm talking about the government's policy needs to boost the measures to build up the property. We have one of those measures in the government's programme, which is to stimulate the purchase of land to build up properties. When it comes to plums, everything is the opposite of what Mr Krasic said. The state is now stimulating the planting of new young plum orchards. That's what those who do these days, among other things, and I, since he mentioned me in that context, know very well. Someone who buys a nursery in a nursery that is registered and receives an appropriate declaration will be financially calmed in that number of seedlings that were received in that orchard that was planted. It's the other way around. I don't know what the situation will be with brandy. I've seen in the paper that many of us are afraid that here's our plums we won't be able to produce homemade brandy, because we allegedly have such an example in Bulgaria, and it's not true that it is in Bulgaria as well. So whoever wants to register as a producer of brandy and meets the appropriate technical conditions, and it's not hard to meet them, will be able to produce homemade, and it's very high-quality brandy, like me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21542	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. Mr. Krasic, you're not mentioned in any offensive context, you're looking for a word because you probably think you're misread? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21543	No offense, but Jova didn't realize what I was talking about, so he turned around. Read what it says in Article 9. The above writes – tobacco producers, and conditions, and Article 9 says: "The production of tobacco can deal with the company, the company, the agricultural cooperative and the entrepreneur (hereinafter referred to as the economic operator), which meets the following conditions: that it is registered, that it has at least five hectares of arable area owned, leased, or in collaboration with the physical face of the tobacco manufacturer. "These are all conditions for a business operator. All that Mrs. Radeta was saying and what Brance Stojanović was saying, so what I tried to convince you with certain arguments was the physical face of the owner of the agricultural land on which the culture called tobacco could be grown. Please, whoever has their own piece of agricultural land, I'm not going into what size and surface it is, if you'd like to do tobacco production... I reminded you of the previous position of Article 9 which says: "Natural person - tobacco producer", meaning, it is a tobacco manufacturer - an economic subject, and this farmer is a natural person - a tobacco producer, meaning again, a tobacco manufacturer, "can deal with tobacco production if he has a co-operative contract with a tobacco manufacturer, or with a tobacco processor. "There is an indirect ban here, which means that if I grow tobacco on my ten acres and pick that tobacco, so on and so forth. I am not equal to one who also has ten acres under wheat, corn, etc., because it recognises the status of the producer of corn, and I am not recognised. In order to benefit myself, I have to be a cooperative. With who? With the one the younger one was assigned - Cica, Mica, Bija, Maja, etc. I warn you MPs, you voted for that anti-monopol law, here is a provision that forms a monopoly, not a state monopoly, but an interesting monopoly in principle -- with whom the younger is a good friend. I'm not scaring the peasants, I'm just reading what it says here. If you want to make tobacco, you have to be a cooperative. So far, his right to choose was whether he would be a cooperative -- and those in Podrinj, and those down at Toplica, and those next to Zrenjanin, so they found economic interest in being in some contractual relationship, because they were getting seeds, chemicals, oil, etc. They were driven by their personal interest to enter into some cooperative relationship, but the law did not prohibit them from producing. You say it here now - it's not forbidden to produce, but if you want to produce, you have to fill everything and everything. What's more, you're going to take the bears to the hole, the canetta to the hole so that he can organize your business. When he reports, as a business organizer, he dictates the price, the terms, the manner of payment, etc. The peasant can't choose here - I won't hand this buyer over, I want this one, this one's more favourable. No, this is where you threw it out. In this way you have limited the right to property, in this way you do not make the market free, but monopolistic and addictive. That's what our remark is about. Don't turn what I said. As a parallel to this, I used some bright mind tomorrow to think of a similar way to produce corn, wheat, so I mentioned your plums, etc. So this is where it's done in principle. Someone can't have this effect on the landowner what he's going to do with his land. How am I, who made tobacco, not a tobacco manufacturer? Then what am I? In order to be a tobacco producer, I would especially have to be a cooperative or have five acres. Or be just a picker. ) These EU conditions are difficult. You said it well, there's 300 acres, there's 30 acres, and there's three of us and something. If we go to the parcels, then how much is the average plot, you'll get even more devastating data. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21544	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. You've received an answer from a member of the Parliament. This was according to the Rules of Procedure, a replica of this exhibition Mr. Krasic has Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21545	There's no doubt Mr. Krasic has good intentions. And I have said in good faith how I see this Article 9. I have to admit, I understand that differently from Mr. Krasic. First of all, I think there are two important interests, one of which is state, and the other is the interest of a natural person when it comes to these cooperation contracts. A natural person who produces tobacco on his plot of 15 or 20 acres has precisely an interest in concluding a cooperation agreement with the tobacco manufacturer, primarily for the safety of placements. That's one. Two, we Socialists believe that a certain area of five hectares is too large at this point, that it needs to be reduced to one hectare. An amendment to the SPS parliamentary group has been tabled in this regard. So it's too big a five-hectare area. One hectare would, according to our criteria, satisfy that measure to organise two, three or five tobacco producers with 15 or 20 acres of surfaces, to group that production and to be able to register as such, one of them or all together, as tobacco producers. If you want, then on these principles there are also agricultural cooperatives, including many other companies that are formed in form, let's say, limited-responsibility societies, with several stakes that can be precisely those 15 or 20 acres of property, on which tobacco will be planted. This last position, which Mr Krasic is invited to, tells me that in this way a natural person is protected, because he will be able to conclude a cooperative contract and he will be able to register his tobacco that he produces on that plot at the right price and charge from him who, meeting the requirements of the law, registered as a tobacco producer. On the other hand, it is true that Mr Krasic has seen it, is a tobacco of some kind of monopoly production. But exactly the state over these monopolies must have proper control, and control will, above all, be given, a good record of those who produce tobacco, or plant tobacco and on possessions less than five hectares, and in our version less than one hectare. So, we're just different here, and there's no doubt that it's both Krasic's good intentions and, of course, SPS MP Brancet Stojanovic's submission of this amendment. It is therefore appropriate to consider reducing the area from five hectares to one hectare to make it easier to move to that stage to group farmers through agricultural cooperatives or enterprises, or through the accumulation of possessions, in order to be really serious tobacco producers, which is not only about tobacco, but also about all other productions that I was talking about in the previous presentation. So it is not my intention to argue with Mr. Krasic about good intentions, but simply to understand one another. It was the intensity of our amendment, not that we're scaring the peasants that they won't be able to do anything on their plot. No one can stop them and no one will stop them. On the contrary, he only wants to register it as a man who has a cooperative contract and who, when he sells that tobacco, will be able to charge that tobacco to expand its production, if necessary to these five hectares, as designed in the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21546	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. Does any other parliamentary group want to talk about this amendment? Thank you. The People's MP Milorad Krstin submitted to the 9th Amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21547	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to a law like this that comes out of the highest legislative body in Serbia, it's time for the legislator to be here with us. However, especially him, is likely to be negotiated or celebrated, if this law is passed, with those who helped him to make this law the way it is. I was wondering if I was competent to talk about this law. You got big barefoot, you got barefoot, you got little barefoot. The big boss for this bill would be Milo Djukanovic, the boss would be Stanko Subotić - Cane Žabac and, normally, the promoter – little boss, Mr Dinkic. The confusion in this law was made precisely by this Article 9. There's so much illogicality that it would take a lot of talk to make this member right. It is said: "The production of tobacco can be done by a company, a company, an agricultural cooperative and an entrepreneur (hereinafter: a business entity), which meets the following conditions... ". I'll explain how it used to be. The tobacco factory has its own man on the ground, has its trustee in a populated place who is responsible for providing seed or rasad producers, nylon foil and protection against harmful diseases for that culture, which is very gentle but harsh in human health. That trustee was the safety of a factory that was processed from tobacco lists and rules of cigarettes, losing and so on. No one could doubt that man at the time that this kind of tobacco, the type of tobacco as you say here -- Virginia, berley, Oriental, half-oriental, couldn't make a mistake, and why? Because it was kept in mind, it was known on which type of land could be planted (I repeat, to be planted, because it is not sown, tobacco is planted), on which plots Virginia, berlay, Oriental and half-oriental can succeed. Again, the trustee is the security of that factory that gave that trustee the i.e. agricultural producers, farmers or farmers. However, there is a confusion here. Why do I say - confusion? That's very clear. You say he should have at least five acres. Gentlemen, the peasant has a quality hectare of land, he thinks only by planting tobacco will he benefit the most from that hectare and wants to plant tobacco. If he doesn't have five acres, he can't plant it, but we'll start again what's allowed by this law. Now five of us are going to team up, I'm going to be a producer, but I have five acres, and one more hole, another hole in this law that has so many holes that it all looks like Swiss cheese. He says, therefore, what is disputed in full Article 9: "A natural person - a tobacco manufacturer can deal with the production of tobacco if he has concluded a co-operation contract with the tobacco manufacturer... ". He can't, the tobacco manufacturer, have a deal with the tobacco manufacturer, I guess, with the tobacco processor; then it looks like I'm with myself a real contract. We're going back to what I said. That trustee who was in front of a tobacco-list processing factory didn't have to have what you're alleging here right now. There was no confusion in the field. It's simple, clearly, in particular, and everyone was pleased, and here we're planting cooperatives and business entities, a company. Gentlemen, the text of this law goes on to say - if the tobacco manufacturer, or the natural person - the tobacco manufacturer is not satisfied with the quality assessment carried out by the tobacco processor, which has concluded the buy-in contract with tobacco, it may, within 24 hours of the quality assessment carried out, submit a request for a new quality assessment of an accredited domestic or foreign laboratory. Gentlemen, no one's ever doubted quality assessment before. So now a contract with a farmer's cooperative is concluded, and the one from the agricultural cooperative is some great expert, so an estimate of such quality, in fact it requires quality and higher price; or company. Why wasn't that part about production, not that he's going from cooperative to another lab, so then he's going from that lab to an accredited, foreign lab to confirm it, so we're going to go to Geneva, Strasbourg, don't give God to The Hague, because it doesn't make sense. That's one of the indicators of this bad member 9. However, I cannot understand that in this law we have something that shows how professionally it is not done enough. Every cigarette is harmful to your health. Some contain 15 milligrams of tar, some 1.5 milligrams of nicotine, 15 milligrams of carbon monoxide, but the law says that from 16 milligrams of tar, meaning from 1 January to 31 December 2006, it takes five years to bring down from 16 milligrams, according to some European law, to 10 milligrams of tar per cigarette, and only in 2011, we will have a case of a plant producing a cigarette that carries 10 milligrams of tar per cigarette or one milligrams of nicotine per cigarette. It takes five years for a normal law to do that. The law says – by half of 2007 each factory is obliged to reduce from 16 milligrams tar per cigarette to 10 milligrams or to reduce to five. Gentlemen, as much money as it can be made with the production, that is, the processing of tobacco to the state needs to contribute even more to the treatment of tobacco diseases. She can't do that, because the biggest mobsters are in tobacco. Everyone knows that the biggest boss was Milo Djukanovic, that route Bar-Bari, that's the open track in winter, there's even one who can't go around and who can't. It's true and it's true who can visit whom. I don't want to talk about a Canet called The Frog. You've heard it all before. So, gentlemen, you'd have to take care of it, because you can see we have a lot of amendments, and we've arrived at the first amendment. Gentlemen, think about it, this law is not good. The Serbian Radical Party will not vote for such a law, so it would be up to Minister Mr Dinkic to honour and honour the efforts of the SRS MPs to improve the law, but I see something more important to him, or perhaps sit with Canet Subotic, called the Frog.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21548	Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21549	Mr. President, let's continue with the truth, I don't want to mention names now that they're not in the O.R. A moment ago, it was said that there was no sanctions if someone in their plot was involved in the production of tobacco. That's what's said. Now I'm going to read you something that's in Article 9, paragraph 9: "A natural person - a tobacco manufacturer can deal with tobacco production if he has a contract with a tobacco manufacturer, or a tobacco processor. "Now from such a provision where it is said--it can, which is not by its nature imperative... Please let those who do not believe Zoran Krasic turn the page of the 37th proposal of this paper that we have received, Article 86 is the name of the tobacco producer, so let them look at paragraph 4: "The fine of 500 dinars to 50,000 dinars will be fined for the violation of the physical face - the tobacco producer", that is, in Article 9 paragraph 9, "if it produces tobacco contrary to Article 9 paragraph 8 of this law. "So, peasants, if you are engaged in tobacco production on your plot, and you are not co-operatives, Mladjan Dinkic, with the help of those who will vote for his law, will file a misapplication and you will be fined up to 50,000 dinars. So Krasic didn't lie to you when he went out twice and said this way he forbidds the peasant from deciding how to use his private property, agricultural land. Why did I read this to you? Just because of the amendment Mr. Kristin filed. The amendment requires that Article 9 after Article 1 of Article 1 add a new position 2 which reads: "A farmer does not have to meet the conditions laid down in Article 1(4) and (5) of this Article" in order to allow a farmer to have tobacco producer status rather than have producer cooperative status. It's not hard to understand. It's not hard to be nice, it's not hard to understand, it's all clear. Mladjan Dinkic destroys agricultural production. Mladjan Dinkic destroys farmers who produce tobacco, forces them to be cooperatives with criminals. I guess it's clear after this. Anyone who doesn't want to be cooperative with criminals comes under the influence of Article 86 that then these Stojkovic's misdemeanor courts will punish him up to 50,000 dinars, and he won't have a profit on that 50,000 dinar land. So you've destroyed banks, now you're destroying production. Why? Because you'll probably be in the next variant to grow narcotics and stimulate these perverted televisions and perverted behavior on the streets. It is the ideology and politics of Mladjan Dinkic. Evidence of this - written, black on white. No constitution, no regulations, no private property, no freedom of business. Everything must be according to the ideas and wishes of Mladjan Dinkic and his sponsors. Now let someone come out and defend Young Dinkic after this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21550	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Don't worry, they all turned page 37, so you know, they listened to you. Here you go. Mr. Ispanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21551	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not defend anyone. There's no need for anyone to get angry. He can speak quietly here without raising his voice. I would recommend to my dear colleague, and professionally, to take EU regulations; indeed, there are 80 fat books. In the EU, not only are there regulations for what can be produced on certain agricultural land, but there are even regulations to prohibit anything to be produced, the country must be left without any production. There's no need for Mr. Collar to get angry. I say, I recommend him 80 EU regulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21552	By the same amendment, anyone else? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21553	To understand this, it doesn't take 50 volumes to read. It's very simple to understand what I wrote in this amendment. We're done with the peasants, they're clear. Mladjan Dinkic is a pest for Serbian agriculture. You who support think, don't run, take care. Istvan didn't exactly defend him either. He defended the European Union and did not defend Mladjan Dinkic. Article 13 has the title – Withdrawal of the permit for the production of tobacco. The Serbian Radical Party has submitted one amendment to item 4, and Mladjan Dinkic says "The solution of the 3rd article's stance is finally in the administrative process. "This is the solution, not to interpret these previous views, under which conditions and how, but it is important that the administration can make a solution to the withdrawal of the tobacco production license. Now Mladjan Dinkic, in point 4, says: "The solution of the 3rd article's position is finally in the administrative process. "So the only legal protection after such a final administrative act is the launch of a administrative dispute. Even he says in his explanation – Serbia's Supreme Court is in charge of this now. When he comes to life, if he lives, Batic's administrative court, then he'll probably be in charge. We have submitted an amendment where we say that against the rulings of the party's administration, the appeal is decided by the Ministry of Finance as a second-degree body. Now someone who wrote this argument to him is now saying something and instead of saying very simply - the Constitution and the Law on State Administration predicts such a situation that a single authority's solution can be at last, and the protection is secured in the administrative dispute, we are now being told something very clumsy. Why do we insist on a two-stage procedure in the administration and judicial protection against the Supreme Court in the administrative dispute? That's exactly why all the facts are being discussed. Maybe the management was wrong, maybe she was tending, let her consider the complaint of the second-degree body, the Ministry of Finance, let her correct, let her pass the appeal. There is a greater possibility of not making a mistake with the facts and there is a greater chance of properly applying material law, but avoiding this, i.e. by creating a situation for the administration to adopt a final administrative act, and the ministry not having it as a second-degree body, the cards are being opened. This is where Junior says - you don't need a two-stage procedure in front of the administration, because it doesn't matter, and you've brought a solution, and you've brought the administration to a solution, any of my men, to bring you a solution. When you go to the Supreme Court, it's the same thing over there, you've been sued for running a administrative dispute or not. This amendment could be adopted, this amendment pleads for a more regular administrative procedure, first-degree, second-degree, and only judicial protection in the administrative dispute, however, the Junior is in a hurry here, which means that this job is quite agreed, completed. There's no possibility of two-degree procedure in front of the administration, you're going to court right now. Now let me tell you how it's gonna happen in court. If by any chance the Supreme Court respects the suit and annuls the administration's solution, then 11 times the administration, as the governor of the National Bank of Serbia does, as the finance minister does, will insist on its original solution. Now, based on experience, we can conclude that even pro-forma there is no possibility of protecting the law. She's very constrained by legal normative solutions, and according to practice, she's banned. Who dares His Majesty to stand up? Someone just came out, and they're defending this concept of the law. I see that you see the EU as some kind of Stalinist regime. Everything has to be in order: five acres of production, this much, so much, the first five-year-old, the second five-year-old, everything has to be regulated. Guys, we're in '48. leaving the intensive system of conducting production – everything to be under control, everything in the records, all of this, all of it. I guess you're up for the free market, not just the canet frog market. You're taking us a few steps back. I must draw your attention, you have forgotten another very important instance, which is likely to be used more and more by the citizens when it comes to protecting their rights. By entering the Council of Europe, the citizens of Serbia, after draining all legal protection funds in this country, have the opportunity to open proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights. Look at the rich practice of the European Court of Human Rights. You don't need 80 volumes. I'm glad there's 80 volumes, but I'd like someone to come out and tell me – first volume, page 15, third paragraph, what I'm saying is there, not 50 volumes, 80 volumes. I can tell you - enter the National Library of Serbia and read it, it says there. So, by adopting this amendment, there is a potential for legality. By not adopting this amendment, you take risks as far as the European Court of Human Rights is concerned.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21554	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Milorad Mircic has submitted an amendment, with a correction proposing that the word "minister" in the word "minister" be replaced by "minister" in the corresponding decline in members 17 and all other members. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment, with correction, legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Then we'll give you a little five-minute break.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21555	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've heard each other today, at least from this part of the ruling coalition, beautiful stories about tobacco, we've also read these amendments to the government regarding tobacco. Do you even know how tobacco is made, how hard it is to work? Does any of you know that in the morning you get up and pick tobacco all day long, that the grain stem is first produced, and the number of seedlings is recorded. That's how the state kept both its producers and its monopoly. You have 30,000, 50,000 seedlings, not three acres, half a hectare, two mornings, etc. It's a heavy dinar that's being made on tobacco, but a lot of our farmers are just heading for tobacco production, because somehow in the fall, when they get all those taxes, counting the taxes and everything else that the state needs to get back, then the money comes in, when the tobacco gives up, so the farmer owes himself to not carry a debt in winter. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is therefore a great sin that has so far been planted on the farmer on 30-50 acres, 30-50 thousand seedlings, you deny the right to present your product to the state (because the state monopoly must exist, unless you declare the state of Canet the Frog) and that after the state of the money that the state has received and disbursed. Each country takes care of its own interests. It's only since 2000, since the Bulldozer Revolution, this country doesn't care about anything. National MP Milorad Mircic has submitted an amendment to Article 17, asking that the word "minister" be replaced in the word "minister" in the corresponding fall, for two reasons. First, I've been out three times for this pay phone on three different legal projects and said that the minister is an elder, and the ministry is an organ. I understand that you think Dinkic is an organ, but don't bring it into the law. Secondly, I know that this minister, the ministry and the entire government are prone to falling. However, it may not be grammatically spoken properly, but the point is that. I haven't called about the previous amendments, but I'm asking you to stop defending the peasants the way you've defended him so far. It is the state that must protect the peasants, who must protect the production. Here, three years ago in the bathing area, they brought tobacco seeds, they divided the peasants, the peasants sown and the virosis appeared. Seven years can't plant anything on that farmland. Who will make it up to him that those seven years on that land could produce and harvest? That's not what you're thinking. We still have that little farm left to eat, to feed the country. You destroyed the economy or bought these tycoons of yours, and we still have that little agriculture left to feed the people. And you want to destroy it. If you didn't want to withdraw this law, and I expected the minister to come and say he's pulling out tonight, then I think you should at least adopt this amendment in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21556	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Mr. Markovic, my great thanks for defending this amendment in this way, with all the appropriate declines. It's a contribution to all of us. Now, on the same principle as we agreed, a five-minute break to carry out consultations on what we've discussed so far. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work by searching the details of the 12th item of the agenda – Proposal for a tobacco law. National MP Vojislav Milajic submitted to the 21st amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21558	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 21. The draft law provides for a procedure for the withdrawal of licences for the processing of tobacco. The Serbian Radical Party's amendment intervened in attitude 4. where a solution to the tobacco administration, which is withdrawn from the tobacco processing license, is scheduled to become final. The intervention is in this sense that the two-stage principle is violated here and that the right to appeal for a first-degree solution should be allowed and the Ministry of Finance decided on appeal. First, the appeal is a constitutional category and is provided for by the Constitution of Serbia in Article 22(2) – each has been guaranteed the right to appeal or another remedy against a decision which decides on its right or on a law based on interest. This is a constitutional principle and it is envisaged that everyone has the right to protect their legal interest or their own right. In an explanation for which the amendment is rejected, the Proposer cited the General Administrative Procedure Act and called for Article 214 where it is said that the appeal against the first-degree solution can only be declared when the law provides. The General Administrative Procedure Act of Article 213 provides for a rule that an appeal for solutions and decisions taken in the administrative procedure is allowed. Article 214 provides for an exception relating to decisions taken by the Republic authorities and administrative organisations, where it is said that the right to appeal is only possible if the law provides. There are two concepts here. One concept is to exclude the possibility of an appeal, and another is the concept of the SRS that there should be two stages in the administrative procedure and the possibility of the right to appeal, and that complaint would be referred to the Ministry of Finance as a second-degree body in relation to the tobacco management. Why, according to the Serbian Radical Party, is this solution better that there is a two-stage process? For the simple reason that administrative disputes are longer than resolution by administrative procedure. In view of the fact that the economic operators involved in the treatment of tobacco are exclusively engaged in this type of activity and if a solution to the ban on the exercise of that activity could not, in fact, be able to carry out their primary and only economic activity until the administrative dispute has ended, with that solution being abolished in the administrative dispute, to return to the first-degree body i.e. tobacco management. It can again make a solution to the ban on tobacco treatment and it can go on indefinitely. In view of the fact that economic operators are interested in such licences and that the production and processing of tobacco is subject to authorisation, it is necessary to allow economic operators to use this constitutional right i.e. the right to appeal, and only later, if that appeal is rejected, to lead the administrative dispute. In the end, I would like to say that in the government's reasoning, which is why this amendment is rejected, they gave one unshakable explanation, which is that the economic operator can launch a administrative dispute by filing a complaint with the Supreme Court of Serbia, which provides two-stage decision-making. There's a little bit of a mix-up here. Running a administrative dispute is not a two-stage decision. The administrative dispute is judicial protection against decisions taken by administrative authorities. It is a kind of protection, and two-stage is quite another, so this argument absolutely does not correspond to the amendment tabled by the Serbian Radical Party, because regular legal remedies in most proceedings, including in the general administrative procedure, are appeal, complaint, vomiting in the previous state, and not administrative dispute. The administrative dispute is a kind of judicial protection against the authorities of the administration. With this explanation, they only confirm that the Serbian Radical Party was right to submit this amendment to Article 21 and Article 13(4), which was defended by Mr Krasic, because it was very similar, that there must be two degrees in the administrative procedure and that there should be two degrees in this law, especially since the Serbian Constitution provides for the right to appeal as a constitutional category.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21559	Anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21560	Dear People's MPs, I have submitted the amendment, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, to Article 28, to add a new position 4 behind Article 3, which should read: "The deadline for applying for participation in the public tender cannot be shorter than 30 days or more than 60 days from the date of publication of the public invitation. "The government has not accepted the amendment. It explains: "The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the provision of Article 27(7) is based on Article 7. The bill, among other things, requires the government to regulate the public tender procedure closer, and thus the deadline for applying for participation in the public tender. "The government's explanation clearly says that it does not want anything precise to determine in this law at all, to prevent the tobacco mafia. If the tobacco law had been first passed, and after that the tobacco industry of Serbia was sold, we would not have come to this situation and all these discussions that we have under the submissions of the Serbian Radical Party. The tobacco producer is not recognised, but should be a cooperative, and the tobacco mafia has now assumed Serbia's tobacco industry and tobacco production in Serbia, instead of the state having a monopoly over tobacco and it is regulated by law by all the provisions of the law; unfortunately, the tobacco mafia with other mafias, urbanist, oil, pharmacology, the mafia in sport, and the cap is all the financial mafia that unites and leads it all, so it is no wonder that this amendment is not accepted. Article 27 clearly states where the public tender procedure is regulated, who decides on a public tender when it comes to the production and transport of tobacco products. In addition to this tobacco administration, which is now formed by this law, the main word has the finance minister, means Minister Dinkic. In Article 29, in addition to these nine points, who has the right to participate in a public tender, from points 2) to 7), some participation should also be given by the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Health. In this government of the Republic of Serbia chaired by Vojislav Kostunica as Prime Minister, the agriculture minister is the same from G17, the health minister is from G17. Is it possible that the government doesn't want this deadline, when it comes to the tender, to limit the law, that it can't be shorter than 30 days or longer than 60 days, given the discussion we had about the law on foreign trade? Whether the tender will be announced in shorter periods without a legal definition in order to enable the tobacco mafia, Canet Zappac and many others who will appear or have already appeared on the tobacco market, i.e. cigarettes in Serbia, to allow the decision under Article 1, in line with the projected macroeconomic policy, fiscal interest and market opportunities, to decide to call a public tender. How concerned the state's interests are also spoken of by this law and the provisions of this law, as well as the reasoning of the Government of the Republic of Serbia when concrete amendments are not accepted, where there is still something that the law requires to provide, without speaking for the right to participate in the public tender, that this should be governed by the government's public tender procedure, the criteria for the education of the tender commission, the content of the tender commission and the elements for the evaluation of bids. So, all this that happens after the public tender is called, will happen outside the public, reportedly by an ad or invitation that will be published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" and at least once a daily list, but there will be a scenario and a directorship in advance, and that decision and tender will be pre-set and pre-determined and decided. How tenders are held in Serbia are being held in many tenders when it comes to privatisation, when it comes to public procurement. What came out of it? There's been a robbery, if it's a privatisation tender, and if it's a public procurement tender - a rude violation of the law, abuse and robbery through public procurement. The concern of this government over the situation of peasants, and a part of the peasants have been dealing with for decades, not to say for centuries, by producing tobacco, is to prevent them from doing it on their own and deciding for themselves to grow tobacco and as tobacco producers to appear in tobacco processors and sell their own tobacco production, under conditions they agree with the processor, and to charge for it. Unfortunately, in many other areas, when it comes to farmers, peasants, it has sought – since everything that should have been destroyed so far in the state of Serbia, the bank, the economy, and now it has come to the turn of agriculture and the village – that the state of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia is completely dependent on those you keep telling us to pursue Europe and the European Union and that we no longer have anything of our own, nor that we can be independent of anything. No wonder when it comes to the position of peasants. I'll give you an example from King's Community. The local government, on a proposal from the president of the municipality, has decided that the cattle market works between Thursday and Friday, starting at 00,00 hours. It is a concern for the village and peasants, that after that this session would be a proposal for a law on public roads, so when it was the amendment of the SRS parliamentary group, Dragoljub Stamenkovic, to Article 17. The proposal for a law on public roads has been rejected and the government's explanation for the introduction of a tractor tax beside other motor vehicles. The explanation is: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that a large number of tractors use public roads, especially municipal roads and streets, damageing them. Also, tractors use mud to endanger traffic safety on public roads. For those reasons, it is also necessary to pay for tractors the annual fee referred to in Article 17(1) of the Law proposal, in order to finance the management of the network of municipal roads and streets from the funds paid to the municipalities. "There is a reason for the government of the Republic of Serbia, a shameful argument that tractors are taking mud to the roads, which is why they should pay a tax. We have an example from all over Serbia that the debt mafia is destroying streets, sidewalks, digging them up by who knows how many times a year, building objects that aren't based on general and regional detailed plans, but that doesn't pay for the urban mafia, that's what all the citizens in the municipality budget pay for. But that's why farmers can't even make milk anymore, because they should have a farm of 30 cows, they can't deal with meat production anymore, because meat is imported from Brazil (if it's a pig's half, and if it's a pig's head from Western Europe), if it's chicken meat, then there's American chicken meat coming through Kosovo, which is not for human consumption, and I'm not talking about the import of other agricultural processing. We have this situation that we don't have any more organized pig loads, no more heroes, we're talking about allegedly loaning peasants, but they have to be registered by no means I know by any regulations applying G17 and the Minister of Agriculture, so I'll probably have to register everyone in the following year to sell anything as a agricultural product. Not here today, Minister Dinkic, with the help of his party G17 plus, has taken over and taken over from the state of Serbia financial power through the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank, the Ministry of Health and all other financial flows of the Republic of Serbia, through banks that have under suspicious circumstances received permits and which work in Serbia, allegedly with these names as a European bank, but we have no data or reports on the business of these banks, how much they contribute to Serbia's state and Serbian citizens in their business. How much did they grant credit to businesses, entrepreneurs, how many citizens? All this data that's being provided is questionable. I'm looking at the situation in the King, of the 34 business units of these newly-compromised banks, I don't see that they're still investing in production in the municipality of the King. Since Monday's session on the 2006 draft budget law is already scheduled, I will ask Minister Dinkic's parliamentary question to finally give an answer to the bankruptcy procedure over four large banks that last almost five years, what about the money that was found at the time of the bank's bankruptcy, what about movable assets, what about immovable assets? After the robbery of money found in these banks, heisting movable property, the last stage of the robbery is now a huge immovable property located across the Republic of Serbia. He'll have to answer that question, and there'll be other questions I'll ask him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21561	Thank you, Mr. Four. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21562	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to discover the game of the Ministry of Finance, more specifically the finance minister, I would not blame everything in the Ministry, and the G17 plus, in terms of production, given that we are moving on with this amendment to the processing of tobacco, etc. G17 Plus intends, given that the finances are in their hands, to give very favourable credits, to buy these loans from droughts, to buy from farmers, tobacco producers, at cost to buy raw tobacco, to dry and to appear as producers. The whole game and about five acres and all the previous stories about the previous members are here. Let's move on to the amendment. On Article 29, MP Darko Glisic submitted an amendment asking to be replaced by a point 7 item after the word "Republici" and the rest of the text to be deleted. Article 29: "The right to participate in a public tender has a company, a company and an entrepreneur (hereinafter referred to as: a business entity) if it fulfils the following conditions", and these first six points do not read, in point 7) are said to "to commit to produce or purchase a processed tobacco in the amount of at least 50 per cent of its own annual production of cigarettes and other tobacco products in the Republic, by not being less than two thousand tonnes per year". It's about those who will buy tobacco from these producers the next day, as you called them, and with me in the neighborhood, where I was born, they were called shoppers or mattresses, shoppers, and then they'll buy it and then we'll come to the fact that they'll produce tobacco. Since we have in mind that you have sold domestic factories for the processing and production of tobacco products - one company "British American Tobacco", and the other one "Filipo Morris", you have left that Peconi that makes cigarettes "fast" in Pazova, but it cannot achieve two thousand tonnes unless it joins with Mladjan Dinkic. The foundation remained, which the priest avenged in Chačka, and Velja Ilic paid for; and still that cornerstone stands in that meadow, and the other day I was in Chačka, and I saw, there remained that cornerstone, and the factory was not built. Another future producer remains – Stanko Subotić - Cane Žabac in co-operation with the finance minister. He's going to build a factory. All this looks like it. There's still a photo of the factory owner. Because two thousand tons can't be produced by anyone except these two big factories and those new ones that the two of them are going to do together. However, when we go to criminal provisions, it is Article 34, closely related to this, we will come up with another situation that is questionable. He says, "If the license holder, or the owner of the license holder, whose share exceeds ten percent of the capital of the license holder, the person authorized to represent... rightly convicted of a commercial offence, i.e. a criminal offence of illicit production, or illicit trade in tobacco products, or if those persons are punished for a violation prescribed by this law." Then you will be in a position to check whether "British American Tobacco" has been punished in London, whether "Philip Morris" has been punished in America, whether Cane Frog has been punished in Geneva, because there he is the headquarters of the company and he is a citizen of Croatia, Switzerland, among other things, seems to me, and Serbia, although he has once deleted himself from the citizens' register. The only thing left for you is Peconi if you don't protect him, too. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, adopting the amendment of MP Darko Glisic, we will be in a position to at least this part, which is absolutely unclear and which leaves opportunities for severe manipulations, let's say, so point 7 would read – to commit to produce or buy domestically processed tobacco in the amount of at least 50 per cent of its own annual production of cigarettes and other tobacco products in the Republic annually. The amount of two thousand tons closes the doors to all future cigarette manufacturers, all future tobacco factories that would appear here. Do you know what two thousand tons is? It's an incredible amount.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21563	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has a folk ambassador, Momcilo Duvnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21564	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I expected from the government of Serbia and the competent ministries, as a promoter, above all from the Minister of Health, to point out to us and all Serbian citizens in favour of this law the advantages and the harmfulness of the use of tobacco. In fact, we need a review for today and tomorrow of how many citizens of Serbia, and above all young people, are suffering from tobacco smoke and tobacco use, as active and passive smokers. At the same time, I expected other ministries -- businesses, agriculture, trade, hospitality and others, to tell us what are the advantages of growing and using tobacco for family and collective purposes. Dear Members, I have not seen and seen the advantages of growing, producing and transporting tobacco and tobacco products. I'd be happy to be denied today or tomorrow. Due to these few remarks, the government of the Republic of Serbia was to propose, instead of this law, a bill on banning the production and traffic of tobacco in this area. That's what we'd be famous for and admit in the world. On what provisions of the bill did I set out such a proposal or my personal position? Part of the progressive and advanced world stands for the preservation and continuation of the lives of people on planet Earth. Therefore, there are no clear answers in this proposal who benefit from tobacco and their products. It seems quite clear -- the only benefit comes from the tobacco mafia, the individuals who have become richer and want more, and no one else. I expected information that we all know how many non-smokers are in Serbia, or those who don't use tobacco and what they think about this bill. Should they be wondering about what we're discussing? They don't seem to wonder, because they may be in the minority, or they're uninformed. As a non-smoker, I will vote against this law, because I have a moral obligation primarily to myself and to all those who do not use tobacco. If I find the benefits of using tobacco for health and offspring, I may change my mind. What am I talking about? For God's sake, people, read article 77 carefully. It's a bill of law, and you'll get it. This article lists the consequences of using tobacco for human and child health: it causes lung cancer, lips, tongues, vocal cords, and smokers risk having oesophageal, stomach, uterus cancer. Our youth, smokers' children, suffer more often from asthma, sore throats, ear, and smoking also causes a heart attack and stroke. What does the Minister of Health think of this, not just the finance minister, as the promoter and processor of this law? One more thing in particular, in Chapter II, Article 3. It's a bill of law. It's about the education of the tobacco administration. I guess she's thinking of forming and organising a administration, not some kind of education. If she stays like this, she'll stay on the low level of education. In Article 2. The bill has so many foreign expressions, they have certain meanings, but they are outside our native Serbian language. Who's gonna understand this? Only those who will deal with illicit tobacco production and traffic. It's just amazing what it says in Article 8. The bill – the following tobacco types are produced in the territory of the Republic of Serbia: Virginia, berley, Oriental and semi-oriental. Who understands that? Explain it to the farmers to understand what it is and where those tobacco types come from. Are there any guys who grew up in the days of Prince Lazarus and what was their name? Let them give their opinions and opinions to tobacco experts. In the end, in Article 9. The bill, among other things, says tobacco production will deal with agricultural cooperatives. I would like to hear, and I believe most of the MPs, that the proposer tells us how many agricultural cooperatives in Serbia are working and dealing with agricultural production, and that is precisely tobacco production. As far as I know, agricultural cooperatives in Serbia have one hand on their hands, and who destroyed them and for what reason, ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Let it also be asked about this bill that is good for transition and for individuals, not for Serbia's youth and future. In the end, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, if you want to improve this bad law, then you must accept all amendments to the Serbian Radical Party and my colleague Dark Glisic's amendment to Article 29, paragraph 7). Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21565	Thank you, Mr. Duvnjak, just so you know that this amendment is not in these positions, it only limits it to not be 2,000 tons. I can answer you – so at the time of Emperor Lazar, it is not possible to count the kinds of tobacco that were grown in Serbia for the same reason that no one in Serbia has eaten in his time. So neither tobacco nor corn were there, but it would be nice to find it in the law, and I guess that would mean a lot to the agricultural producers. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21566	Ladies and gentlemen, the question has been raised since the start of the debate as to why the authorised representative of the proposal for a law on tobacco finance minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Mladjan Dinkic. Basically, there are touching points, two are good reasons why. One is to provide a group of people with a monopoly on the production and processing of tobacco. You can see that already in Article 9, where you limit who can do anything in tobacco production. The reason for such a thing is, firstly, that the tobacco producer must have an agreed sale, i.e. a contract with the processing and processing of tobacco, which is again tied, extremely close, to Article 29, where it is claimed that 2,000 tonnes of domestic tobacco must be processed annually, and otherwise that the plant can process two and a half billion cigarettes in one year, which means that about 95% of the processing will be domestic tobacco. It's not written like that for nothing, and it's not an accident. So, the reprocessing of tobacco can only be done by someone who has concluded contracts with producers and therefore cannot be the most common agricultural producer, or as we say farmer, alone to produce tobacco and its right to limit it. There is another reason why – because here the business can also be done by the entrepreneur. So, agricultural households are in a certain way forced to register as an entrepreneur in order to increase its tax on the state. On the other hand, not only when this condition is created that the agricultural producer can choose whether to be an entrepreneur or to continue to perform it as a natural person, why he did not leave the possibility as a natural person to choose whether to pay, whether to be a taxpayer for pension insurance or not. It's the morale of this government. Otherwise, an ordinary agricultural producer, an ordinary peasant, so to speak, does not have the right to refaction value added tax, and for the first time since when agriculture exists, a tax has been introduced on agricultural re-promatter and the whole story that has been told here about depreciation may make sense, but the target group has been to increase the number of taxpayers. It is now said in the next article of the 32nd that the manufacturer of tobacco products is paying a fee of 10 million dinars, and the funds resulting from that revenue are the budgets of the Republic. So it's being re-set, through a kind of tax administration, a restriction that all can deal with tobacco processing, that's to be a tobacco producer. So, from the very beginning, from field to processing, we'll see how it's done in wholesale and retail, the conditions have been strengthened to that extent, so they're listed for two people who can fill it all over the country: on the one hand Stanko Sobotić, called Cane Frog, and on the other hand, Pecconi. So only two people will be able to meet the conditions in Serbia so they can deal with the production, processing and distribution of tobacco. Now the question is, is this law really meant to regulate one area, how do you like to say it's some system law that brings us closer to the legislation of Europe and the European Union, or is the law written for two mobsters. In this case, this law was written for two mobsters, Stanko Subotic called Cana Frog and for Peconi. The one who wrote is in very close business relations with them, i.e. the author's authorised representative, so there are probably reasons why the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party are so easily rejected, because they essentially allow the number of people, i.e. persons to deal with traffic, production and processing of tobacco. The aim of this law is not to secure the state from the gray economy, because, as seen in the case of the Government of Serbia's regulation on oil and oil derivatives, the state has no confidence in its customs services; there is a tax on giving much less than the tax on cigarettes, but the import of cigarettes is not under the control of the state. So cigarettes can import whoever they want, but it's under the control of certain gray eminences, and it knows everyone who can import cigarettes, distribute them, who can make huge money, and even, if necessary, avoid paying the state. Since it is essentially one particular squawk that depends on the government in the Republic of Serbia, and they see that this government that is close to them is also near and see that the SRS will soon be able to form the government on its own in the first elections, fear has arisen that they will continue to earn huge money. One way is for the money they collected in the gray market to legalize and continue their work and to keep everything in line with the law. The way that money is legalized is seen in this bill and it is actually written for two gentlemen – Stanko Subotic called Cana Frog and Peconia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21567	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. People's MPs protect immunity, so you have no right to sue them. The gentleman didn't know you were the author of the law and thank God it doesn't look like Mr Dinkic. The author of the law and the representative of the promoter is here with us. Just to clarify and apologize if there was a misunderstanding. It was a metaphor. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic. (The Belief of Radeta, from the place: The author of the law is the Government. You're right, the promoter is government, the laws don't have authors, and the one who wrote the law sits before us.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21568	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's another devastating fact. It happened to slip away from the ministry to write it like this, however, for those who know how to read and among the ranks it all says so clearly. He says, "For the registration of merchants in large tobacco products, a fee of five million dinars is paid, and the funds made from that fee are the revenues of the Republic's budget. "It's okay. "The amount of the fee referred to in Article 3 item 3 shall be aligned with the rate of growth of prices to a small extent, according to the authority responsible for statistics affairs. "I wonder what it is that the minister knows, and we don't know, and Serbian citizens don't know. How little price growth is expected by the minister, how much inflation is expected by the minister, and he is the finance minister, the source of the information. That means inflation won't be 18%, as you said, but at least twice that. How many of these five million will be at the end of a half-year when it has to line up with the rise in prices to a little bit? If it started with that logic and he's afraid of that inflation growth, which doesn't harmonize every month, every week, every day, and in the morning one alignment in the morning, and in the evening, another coordination, to save these five million, or the value of these five million dinars. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I asked for an amendment to make this coordination once a year. Now another illogicality from this law, which I have noticed in preparation for this amendment. I can't get it in my head. He says, "The holder of the big trade license can pay the fee of the third member's position in five equal annual wars. "If half-year-olds are coordinated, how can they, how will they know what war will be and how equal war will be? It can't be the same if it's already synchronised. This means that every next war will be higher by a certain percentage. He says, "The person of the 6th article must pay each subsequent war no later than three days before the end of the period of one year from the day of payment of the previous war, consistent with the rate of growth of prices to a little. "For six months, it will be harmonised, it can be paid annually, because a five-year permit is usually a permit, it can be paid annually, and how can it be in five equal annual wars? Every year's war will be with a harmonised price rise for a little bit. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if the finance is led by the minister who was the author of this law, then the minister will be obliged to adopt this amendment once a year, and I hope that you will protect, among other things, the producers and traders, so that once a year you will allow the price to be adjusted, or to align this fee... I invite you to vote for this amendment on Monday, in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21569	Anyone else by this amendment? No, I don't. Once again, who is the author of the law? (The Faith of Radet, from the place: I will explain.) That's right. Member of the 40th Amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21570	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here's what it looks like. I see here trying to actually show how real the law is. What are the provisions of the bill which are required to be deleted by this amendment? Items 9, 10 and 14. It's about enrolment in the register of merchants on large tobacco products. In any case, he must pay a fee of five million dinars; when producers, processors, retail stores, why don't they do it big-time. However, here are three attitudes that are under question whether they are in compliance with any other legal regulations at all. Article 9 of the 40th said there is a guarantee as a means of ensuring payment of liabilities based on public incomes and parallel taxes. In paragraph 10: "The amount of the guarantee referred to in point (2) of Article 8(2) of this Article may be delivered by the marketing authorisation holder of large tobacco products by applying the guarantee prescribed by this law at 80,000 euros each year, at the latest five days before the expiry of the previous guarantee. "So for each year business, one big sale will have to contribute 80,000 euros to the state. Paragraph 14 states: "The Minister in charge of finance affairs is closer to the regulation of the guarantee activation process, as well as the method of using the guarantee funds set out in item 8(2) of this article. "I ask one question here, it does not say in the law – will it really be 80,000 euros to contribute as a guarantee or as a dinar equivalent? If you insist on attaching as a guarantee in the dinar equivalent, what will happen when you carry out your tax obligations and demand that his funds be paid in the name of the guarantee be returned? Last year, the euro was about 84.50 dinars, and now it's now 87.00. Will he be given back the same dinar amount that was at the time of the guarantee? If you're asking him to pass 80,000 euros, is that in accordance with the Foreign Exchange Act? A trader on large tobacco products is forced to break the law; in order to comply with the provisions of one law, he will have to break another law. Now the question arises – is the trader the largest taxpayer in the chain from the production of tobacco products to the consumer, to the users of tobacco products? Of course not. In the first place, the largest taxpayers are the processors of tobacco products, because there is an entry price of raw materials, i.e. the value of the value added tax at least to that retail price, i.e. to the price, is the largest difference between the producer price and the price of the output. There's also a tax bill on added value. Why do manufacturers, i.e. tobacco products processors, not deposit? They can damage a lot more of the state than all the sales. One tobacco product processor can do more damage to the state than any major sales in the country. What's the guarantee? His drive? That's not a guarantee he can rent a drive. By the time you find out he can move him out of the country. The building? What? What's the problem here? It's about billions of dinars. Who will stop them from making such abuses? Then you're asking for 80,000 euros to be guaranteed. That's funny. What about the importers? The goods that enter the country have no VAT account. The VAT to be calculated is: the purchase price of the product plus customs is equal to VAT. What's the difference between the exit price? It's much bigger again than when it comes to sales. Large sales work with two or three percent in the price of tobacco products, maximum five, and here are the quantities of accumulated capital in processors and importers over 100% and they do not need a guarantee. The most money they can make, the biggest leaks they can make. That's the problem. If you already wanted it, then you should have told Mr. Stanko Subotic Canet - frog that the deposit, a guarantee of 10m euros, was 10m euros, and then let the traders go to a large 80,000 euros. Take both the STR and the SZR, take 1,000 euros from the traffickers. The question is, why do you ask only one of them and how are you going to do it? Will it have to be broken by the Foreign Exchange Act, and if it is paid in dinars, how much will it be paid back, whether the same amount in dinars or will the state give up one dinar piece again and return to it the value of the euro at that time? These are the problems and disadvantages of this law. As funny as that may seem to you, you'll see what kind of failures you've shown in writing this law later on. In principle, I believe you're very good in theory, but in practice, and this isn't about anything, very bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21571	Anyone else by the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was tabled by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21572	A well-known criminal, mob boss Stanko Subotic Cane -- frogac has mostly taken possession of cigarettes in Belgrade, Kragujevac, in all major cities in Serbia. Otherwise, just to supplement this excellent presentation of all previous colleagues of Serbian radicals and to tell you, the public is probably more interested, and I see you fellow MPs from the ruling structure, especially you who were not, including the president of parliament, in the previous assembly of MPs, when we were successfully selling this book to DOS lawmakers. The hit edition of Professor Vojislav Seselj's book, published by the Serbian Radical Party, is called "Stanko Subotic Cane - Frogc, King of the Duvan Mafia". You can order it with us, and there you will see who is all from the top of DOS government, started by Zoran Djindjic, through other ministers and various other business lobbys and tycoon, was connected; you will be surprised at some of the information you will read there, authentic, of course, there are judicial records, knowledge and what "Laufer" reported, of course, various stenograms of conversation, and related to the business of that criminal clan headed by Canet the Frog. When it comes to retailers on small tobacco products, it may be that Caneta Zappac with so much money obtained in such a way will not be a problem to fulfill Article 4 45's position, but I have reacted because of all those citizens of Serbia who have a retail facility in their possession, in the lease. I have just heard from one such lady that she resents it – she owns one building in Knić, a township, a municipality in Šumadia, and there are many who know how much – when she hears, she and everyone else, to ask people for all that is in Article 45. Among other things, you say – he paid a fee of 4,000 dinars for every retail facility. Until 15 days ago, there were 3,000 dinars. What changed and how did you calculate with this inflation that Dinkic says, ma'am or miss, is 13.6%, to increase that by 1,000 dinars? Based on what? What I respond to refers to is to the area where cigarette sales are to be carried out and it is said that, among other things, it is required to meet the requirements regarding technical equipment. It's a very broad term. What's technical equipment? The fiscal register, that's what you're with and the fiscalization, the way it's done, and especially with criminal provisions... No one is against issuing bills, paying taxes, but with dragonic obligations, especially with negotiations that financial police are making with object owners, by system – give me some money in my pocket, so I won't close the facility for 15 or 30 days. You go on and on and on – protection at work and protection and promotion of the environment, as well as sanitary-hygienic conditions. Even if it is from Dinkic, to live up to innocent citizens and those who have a hard time in those trades and retail facilities, there is a lot of money. Perhaps you will be able to make a commitment by this law, since you give him every privilege to remain absolutely legally held by the Monopoly, Caneta Frog, to give him the opportunity to attach the shower cabins to these trafics. It may be sanitary-hygienic conditions for you, but you're asking that someone has sanitary-hygienic conditions in the sense that they own a wet knot and that they have a trafic in which they sell cigarettes, at least it's dilettaneous, and that's how I wrote in the explanation of the amendment that I filed on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. Think a little logically about whether it is possible that sanitary and hygiene conditions should meet sellers in retail facilities, in trades. You go out here, to the left of the Assembly, you have a trafic, and if you came and told the lady what was being discussed here and you asked them to do it, she'd be groaned. The only possibility and help it can have in that sense are those bottles of half a liter or already as much "Aqua Vive", "Rosse" and other waters it owns and sells in a retail facility. What do you ask them to do, sell cigarettes and meet these conditions? I really don't understand how you can go so boldly. Em's so much obligation, so many criminal provisions, for no reason do you increase this payment this much, and now it's really impossible to ask for something like this. Environmental protection and protection at work – what do you mean by that? (Istvan Ispanović, from the place: he must wash his hands. ) Dear colleague, first you should have told Joseph Kassi to wash his hands after washing the money and that thief who worked in Subotica, with you in power and with your help. Don't throw it at me and laugh so ironicly, I'm talking about a serious thing. If you were to go out and tell some lady or any young man who works in the traffic that it's because he has to wash his hands, someone would tell you that you don't deserve to be called a MP at all, let alone perform that function. Get serious and listen or watch what it says here. This is monstrous, this is a crime against your own people, as you don't understand. How can you ask people to do that? Do you want to put a fire extinguisher on the trafic? Write this too – protection measures at work, everything from that law that you discussed the other day and which Lalović proposed, on the safety and protection of health at work, if this applies to both these frog's trades or to these other people, individuals who earn bread with severe difficulty in these trades and who support someone. You said a lot about us, about the earthly radical, the most successful government, and about the one from 1996 to 2000 with Dr. Seselj at the head and the one led by Mrs. Pop-Lazic – kiosks, kiosks, it bothers, it is a mockery. Thousands of families support themselves in those kiosks. Do you want to get people to close down the kiosks, like this Stevanović in Kragujevac, in one zone in the city where there are kiosks for 20 years; or in one settlement that's supposed to be a future municipality the other day, one of his experts comes out and says, "We're going to give all the kiosks away or we're going to put some tips on. Now let them think that they have to have sanitary-hygienic conditions with these guys' cabins. This doesn't make sense, and that's why I can't understand the irresponsibility of Mladjan Dinkic, who has come up with all this monstrously, him or someone on his behalf, in the name of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as Mrs Radet said, but indeed in this way and with people who need to earn their wages, for the employee, to support themselves and survive. Without the canet frog lobby and others, think about the environments where you live, in the smallest municipality in Serbia, without being a chain of Cannet's trades, who are owners or renters in trades. Usually people who have lost their jobs or young finished merchants who have finished school, and have found some way, borrowed to open that trade, do a little work. Now these conditions to put before them, I understand that there is a catering facility, that a restaurant, that there is something where such a kind of service activity is performed from that area, but for a trade that you're looking for is really a lot or for a retail facility that, of course, some have. Shops, some places where it's possible, but this applies, it writes nicely, to retail facilities. It's about trafics that can't possibly have all these protection measures, and somebody's gonna make a joke about this, and they're gonna make a new video that's gonna spin on TV; if it wasn't sad, it'd be funny, but it's really sad.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21573	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21574	I've been claiming from the beginning that whoever wrote this bill, at least as far as some technical details are concerned, has no idea. It shall be stated in Article 45 — an entity referred to in Article 1 of this Article may carry out work in a space that meets the conditions relating to technical equipment, work protection and protection and environmental improvements. I don't know how the trafic will improve the environment, only to keep pots around the trafic. To meet the sanitary-hygienic conditions – to say that it is theoretically feasible, only the question is what will our streets look like. Imagine some local self-government giving consent to set up a certain trafic at a square or at a crossroads. They gave this consent, the time came to register the work, the competent republican authority to issue the permit and say – no, you do not have certain sanitary-hygienic conditions. That organ of local self-government that issued that license will have to do so to provide conditions, which means wherever we want to set up a trafic, we're going to have to split the asphalt, we're going to rip the sidewalks, we're going to pull the pipes, we're going to get the plumbing, we're going to need to do the sewers. The question arises as to the place itself in the tape and what it will look like, especially since they are often at four or five square meters. Or you'll have those kiosks that Mladjan Dinkic made when he came to power after October 5th, those exchange offices that stood all over Serbia; I think someone has earned good money since they had to be typical. Now you'll probably have to get rid of them, because they've already started doing business banks, there's no need for those traffickers anymore, so you'll probably have the type trade as it was four years ago to re-use it, only it won't change foreign exchanges anymore but it'll sell cigarettes. This is a clear knowledge and experience of the promoter and is also said: "The economic operator of Article 1 may carry tobacco products with its own vehicle which is clearly marked as transporting tobacco products and which meet the sanitary and hygiene conditions, as well as other prescribed conditions. "So, pure ignorance. Before you started writing this law, before you started writing these crazy provisions of one law and regulations, it would be best if you first went to see what it looks like in the agricultural production of tobacco production, to go through processing, wholesale, retailing, and then you wouldn't write this kind of nonsense in one law. So, what you're copying, I don't even know where you're from, we're now in laws like this and you're still claiming to be experts. That really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21575	The word is made by MP Dragan Rafaelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21576	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to join a colleague who said it's a surprise to introduce such measures for tobacco trades; and I'm surprised, because in local self-government we often do auctions for kiosks, traffickers. You say if it were a bar or a business facility, you wouldn't find it strange, but you're surprised by that. I'm really surprised that for these business facilities like cafes, shops are reported two or three, depending on the location, and there's no big crowd, but when the traffickers and the kiosks come, it's amazing, it's kidnapping, it's crowded, it's a few dozen people. So it looks like you're making some money. If Cane Frog, as you call him, happens to be my neighbor, next door, but you have his neighbor from the same municipality, if he bought some kiosks and is dealing with it, why do you regret having to introduce it? Otherwise, every day I go to the Serbian Parliament to buy cigarettes, something sweet, coke, by the way, I have, I'm just an older man, so that's how I travel. I can tell you that tobacco, movies, newspapers, food, small cakes, biscuits, etc. are sold on those kiosks. I don't think there's any problem and it's totally okay that they're gonna have to have wet knots and wash their hands. Maybe that's funny to you, you can call it whatever you want, but it's necessary for those kids who go to school and buy just cookies and what's on the stands. So, on kiosks where tobacco is sold, other things are sold, not just that. As far as the streets are concerned, I agree... I think I listen to you very carefully, so I don't interrupt or throw you away. I don't think it's nice to act like one of the old wolves, but it doesn't matter. So, as far as the streets are concerned, I don't know any street we found in Obrenovac without having to take off the asphalt and do it. They were simply in that condition and the sidewalks, that when we were doing the sidewalk in one street, so a colleague expressed doubts about the great damage that would be done if the pipes had to move, etc. So, we found every sidewalk, so when we do sidewalks on one street and we put records in the other, they object why not to them, but we can't do it all at once. So, don't worry, the technique has progressed, there are very nice systems, like in front of the Assembly. When the panel is set up and I hope that in Serbia, if this government and these parties continue to lead Serbia, for the next 10 years every sidewalk will be like in European cities made of panels and will not have to be cut when sewers and other things are carried out.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21577	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21578	Mr. Rafaelovich, I understand your need to buy that chain package when you go to the Assembly, but I really need to remind you that it's all packed up, and the chocolates and the coke and everything in the box, and who knows what else you buy on the bar, there's a lot of stuff. As far as packing is concerned, everything is neatly packed, according to regulations. You forgot something else in the list – there are hygienic wet wipes in the tractors.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21579	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by the People's MP Rafaelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21580	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't expect my colleague to try to insult her. There is one thing: no one on this side, Dragan Rafaelovic, can be offended, because since 1990, I have been on this side, because Serbia is going to Europe, to pass European laws. And this is one of the laws that introduces Serbia into Europe. I would refer to Mladjan Dinkic, as he is mentioned here, from Lazar Pachu to this day, and he has been mentioned as evicting, kidnapping people etc., but in all times a successful state, in order to be successful, must have a successful finance minister. I was looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure because you didn't understand me very well, and I'm afraid I didn't understand you very well either. Otherwise, make sure I don't buy on kiosks what you buy, thank God, but everyone there has to go and it has to be clean. As for Mladjan Dinkic, it is his job to manage the Ministry of Finance well, to force all economic operators to pay taxes, so that even pensioners, education, education, public service employees, police, the military can be paid off. If you want to talk, that's no problem, there are days to come, so we're going to remember some time how it was, and I don't want to, because I think you're moving on to a European party, slowly but surely. All this stuff we're talking about right now you'll be talking in two or three years, but well, it takes everyone a while to figure it out. One request: I'd like to avoid being personally offended, because we all know something about someone, and we need to talk about it the way it is. I think all these measures provided for in the law are in favour of the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21581	Replica, the word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21582	Mr. Rafaelovich, when you said "I was on that side," I really don't know which side you're on anymore. You've changed so many parties, now I know you're in G17, and where you'll be later, I don't know, and you see, this one that supports the government agrees with my opinion, dear colleague Peric. As for your abuse of the Rules of Procedure and to defend Mladjan Dinkic, I beg you in Dinkic's name, otherwise we will take him down and get rid of him, but you who are in his party do not support him. When you were a member of the Democratic Party of Serbia and defended Vladan Batic, Batic left the government so quickly and was so notorious today in the Serbian people, it is unnecessary for you to step in today and defend Dinkic. You must have misunderstood me. I just added one more thing to the specification of these items. As far as you're concerned, no one's forced you to say things from your private life, how you go, whether you walk, whether you're walking past the trade, whether you're coming to the trade when you come to the assembly, what do we care? You lied to yourself and, therefore, you're responsible for what you're saying at the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21583	Anyone else want a word? Replica, the word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21584	I have listened to everything and seen in this assembly, and I have seen that Mladjan Dinkic regulates the country. The banking system has been specially arranged. The few state banks that remain are still being arranged by, for example, hiring a certain lady in a state bank, with an explanation that she is a single mother. When you look, well it's okay, there's only one problem, she's 65, she can retire. You hire people like that to handle banks and questionable biography? Next, what you're saying is what a trade can sell, that's what we've heard. I don't know if you've ever seen a solution that allows a retail facility to work, so in that solution it says what it can sell. Trafics are said to sell daily press, weekly press, monthly, can sell smoking supplies, and this can be a lighter, match, etc., selling cigarettes, cigarettes, and cigarettes, selling gum. When it comes to selling gum, it adds chocolates, candy, biscuits, confectionery, etc. But that's not the problem with this law. It is a problem of a republican body that gives consent to the opening of a retail facility and determines the activity of what it can sell. Here the law determines how tobacco is sold and what are the sanitary-hygienic conditions. These stories about these records, we've been looking at it all over Belgrade and all the newspapers about how these records are being set up, so in a year many people are breaking it. You're not going to predict any new legal regulations to introduce the cafeteria into the trade? Furthermore, there is a question of the purpose of all this. If he's working with some food section, he's physically separated from him, so he's not in contact with the food, but I don't think whoever wrote this knew what it would look like in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21585	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21586	We laugh at something that's not funny, it's not funny to people who are directly affected by this law, but what to do when the government so conceived the text of the law, and the minister is funny, especially after this time in Japan, when he made peace with Karic. They say they bought chains and locks there; Dinkic goes and puts chains and locks on, he comes from banks, and then through catering facilities that didn't issue fiscal bills, and now he closes the kiosks that don't have a Jacuzzi bath; eventually, Karic goes after him and talks about him taking off chains and locks, and this one puts them before that. So it was the essence of Karic and Dinkic's stay in Japan. I hope that Vlad Pavicevic, attorney of Stanko Sutotic Canet, knows that what the MP says about this speaker is not subject to criminal responsibility, and I stress this because I know that this lawyer really knows nothing, i.e. very little, and that he reaches for a criminal lawsuit whenever someone mentions the name Stanko Sobotić – Cane Zhabac, so he immediately folds the tabak and writes a criminal lawsuit. So he sued Vojislav Seselj several times, including Darko Glisic, our MP, Aleksandr Vukic several times. Among other things, on the basis of these lawsuits and judgments, the book "Stanko Subotic - Cane Zabac, the king of the tobacco mafia", the book Vojislav Seselj, because at the time, in 2001, Vojislav Seselj regularly informed the public of the activities of Stanko Sutotic Canet, Milo Djukanovic, Zoran Djindjic, Srecko Kestner, etc., of the tobacco mafia teams in Serbia-Montenegro. As I said at the beginning when I was talking about the first amendment, Serbian citizens know all this. They are therefore more surprised that the current government protects such criminals and such criminals by passing this law that protects Stanko Suttic's monopoly on tobacco. Few coalition colleagues who will vote for this law have tried to explain to us how we Serbian radicals are wrong when we talk about this law, about amendments, and when we mention all these names that are specifically bound and will tomorrow be related to the application of this law. Every time I had a need to comment on these colleagues' discussions. But, of course, since we've got a codebook like this, I haven't been able to. I have to remind you, someone here said that we from the Serbian Radical Party are talking like this probably because we haven't read 80 volumes of the EU, and I have to say that we're talking like this because we've read and studied these 80 volumes and that what we're saying today and what we're saying about these laws actually makes 81 of which we're going to apply to the EU, especially in Serbia. Also, when a colleague Krasic spoke about farmers, i.e. the inability of farmers to produce tobacco on their parcels, he mentioned that it would be with some other agricultural products, someone remarked that we were misreading it. Of course, that's not true. Indeed soon we expect again some law that is related to agricultural production, where it will be said that corn, sugar beet can only be produced by someone who closes the contract with MK Comer for sugar beet, for corn with "Broat product", that only someone who closes the contract with Matijević, Lijanovic from Širok Breg. So these are your views, the views of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which are supported, unfortunately, by the MPs of the Assembly's majority and who will be called upon by the head of an ordinary citizen, an ordinary man in Serbia. Here is this article 45 – conditions for retail trade in small tobacco products; this member and every position of this member are again protected by Stanko Subotić, Peconi, and again through the back of an ordinary man who is trying to... Someone said, when they're sharing in the store's competition, then there's two or three people who are interested in opening the store, and when the kiosk opens, then there's dozens. It's logical and normal. It speaks of how poor Serbian citizens are. Of course, in order for someone to open a shop or a pub, next to that facility they're competing for, there must be tables, counters, I don't know what else is going on as an integral part of the pub, and what's like an integral part of the store. At his kiosk, up to this current member who provides for him a Jacuzzi bath and a tea kitchen, he doesn't need anything, but to take the goods the way it is taken, to pay after 15-20 days, and on that kiosk he can earn barely an average salary to somehow feed his family. You remember, it was current two years ago, I think, when Stanko Subotić picked up all the press kiosks, when all the people had to change the kiosks, introduce some type kiosks. Of course, many could not do so, and they gave up the job. You're back to those few people who have stayed to work in kiosks, you're now prescribing something impossible and amazing. We have laughed precisely because you predicted something in this law that is simply not possible. How can you put a wet knot in a kiosk, located at the end of a street, and what does a wet knot mean? Is that the shower cabin, the sink? It's amazing that you're playing with this. On the one hand, we have a regulation that limits the area of the kiosk; the kiosk is 9 meters square; on the other hand, it takes at least that much for the wet knot. Then what's he gonna do in the newsroom wet knot and sell out front? You really predict amazing things. What is provided for in Article 5(5) refers to vehicles. You say: "The economic operator of Article 1 of this Article may carry out the transport of tobacco products with its own vehicle which is clearly marked as transporting tobacco products and which meet the sanitary-hygienic conditions, as well as other prescribed conditions. "This is real to cross this booth. So, that man over there who sells in a pack of cigarettes, next to the little things he sells, I guess he's got to have a tow truck or that bus upstairs; these vehicles meet those sanitary and technical conditions. Really, that's amazing. Or you, which is why you said it was an economic entity, but this law stipulates that no one in Serbia will be able to have any more than Stanko Subotic - Cane Frog. That's why you started this attitude with "Employment". Of course, if the owner of all the factories is Cane Frog, then it's normal that he won't be having a problem, he's got speedboats, delivery vehicles; you're still here saying they have to be clearly marked, and that's going to be a sign to the police when Stanko Subotic's boot comes across -- don't touch it. This is already over with Junior Dinkic and Bogoljub Karic – do not touch, otherwise you will get chains and locks. So it is amazing that the government of the Republic of Serbia was insolent in this proposal. It says here that the promoter is the Government. We know it's Mladjan Dinkic. But someone in the government had to be fenced by a law like this, and apparently it wasn't done. I think and I'm convinced that the MPs of the congregation's majority, even if they're not here, will get to know what we talked about today and that they won't let you destroy this law and what little opportunities for an ordinary man, an ordinary citizen who opens up in his street or in front of his own house, where he can already, trade some small things, sell cigarettes, somehow feed his family. Don't close this law, you've closed down a lot, you've closed down factories, you've left people out of work, you've closed banks, you've closed down insurance companies, you've threatened to fire educational and health workers. Aman people, will anyone in this country stay to work, except for these MPs here, who only work on paper, and they're not here? It's amazing how much you don't take care of the citizens of Serbia, don't take care of your own statements, your own promises. You promised Serbian citizens new jobs, control of those criminal privatisations so that eventually people would return to those enterprises that were criminally privatised. You didn't do any of that. Let's not do the same thing and somehow forgive you or at least not to mention it, but to go on destroying Serbian citizens, we really can't allow it. So this number of people who work now, these people who work in traffic... Do you have wider families, do you have a circle of friends, neighbors, former colleagues from work, do you even know who works in those kiosks? Anyway, 90% of these people are the ones who got fired and the only ones who see that they work in this little nine-square kiosk; they pay for that and occupying public areas with municipalities at prices that aren't even small. Of course, they are again determined by Mladjan Dinkic through the Administration of Revenue, and you are trying to destroy that possibility for people. I really don't know how you're gonna show up if you... You're lucky you're not talking about this phone booth, so people don't recognize you, otherwise I really don't know how you'd dare buy cigarettes in the morning or a newspaper on kiosks.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21587	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21588	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm sorry there aren't any of these logicists on this side who know so well how to explain everything, but here in these remaining few seconds to ask you a question. Is it logical for you not to accept this amendment as before to Article 45, which Mrs Radet has submitted, and to know that in your place, in the municipality where you live, in the street, there is a STR "Dream" or STR "Jac", it doesn't matter, there are various names, and that person, the owner of that retail facility (sales are being talked about) goes to a storehouse of wholesale, comes to the center of wholesale in his town to take cigarettes. It has an optimal amount, less or more smokers come and knows what kind of cigarettes are, or brands that are sold and go with a pick-up from the village (it's an even more drastic example, not in the urban environment), from some village that's ten or 20 km up the hill, goes to town with its pick-up to pick up cigarettes and who knows what else, what can stand, so, 20 boxing cigarettes, or 50. Now you're forcing that someone on the vehicle where he wrote the name of his shop - STR - so I don't know how, put a visible mark on the inside that there are cigarettes of that kind. Does that make any sense? Of course not. Next time you'll come and say, for a detergent that drives inside, for various other connector products, it should have a visible mark everywhere, and that doesn't make any sense, and then you'll punish people, and later there are criminal provisions, because it's absolutely an experience over people who need to sell in retail a certain number, dozens of boxing cigarettes to have it in their range.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21589	The 54th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment with the correction, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment with the correction legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21590	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 54. The bill and it is quite similar to the amendment that Mr. Momir Markovic had on Article 40, with Article 54 concerning the entry into the register of tobacco importers, fermented tobacco, or tobacco products, and there it was the entry of tobacco dealers, fermented tobacco and tobacco products. The proposed amendment provides that the 54th term "half-year" is to be replaced by the words "one year a year". It is predicted that one who wants to register tobacco and tobacco importers should pay five million dinars and offer the possibility in five one-year same wars, which is impossible if you read this, given the harmonisation. Now I'm going to remind you of something that happened when we passed the PIO Act. At that time, the law predicted that the harmonisation of pensions would take place once a year, and with severe pain, the assembly accepted, with blackmail, the SPS amendment to do so once in half a year. At the time, Minister Lalovic claimed there was no need for such frequent coordination, i.e. it is enough once a year. Under this bill, it could be assumed that the two ministers behind these laws are not in the same government at all. However, it will be certain that the finance minister has much better data on the inflation rate in Serbia than does the Minister for Labour and Employment; as we said, it was difficult to accept that once in half a year pension levels are harmonised with the cost of living, even the IMF has been declared. One big illogicality, which I will draw attention to, in this article 54th, is that the import permit holder of tobacco, fermented tobacco, or tobacco products can pay the fee of the 3rd term in five equal annual wars. If you're coordinating once in half a year, then it's logical that you predicted here that you could pay in ten half-years of war or that you should accept an SRS amendment to coordinate once a year. See what this is about: if someone has been granted a licence and is registered in the register for importing tobacco and tobacco products, or fermented tobacco in March of the month, and the coordination takes place in January and June of the month, from June to next January, it is practically not interested in harmonising him at all, since some new half-year alignment has begun since January, which will practically interest him in how much harmonisation it is in March. If the alignment is done, it's impossible to pay in five equal wars. It's impossible, because then the alignment loses its purpose; this -- five wars should be wiped out, or -- equal wars, because there's no point in harmonising if it doesn't match the cost of life, and that certainly, given the inflation rate we have in the country, it won't be so that it keeps the same level as it was. So, this amendment doesn't go very well, but you should accept it, because you didn't foresee a second, better possibility of these payments being made in the 10-year war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21591	The People's MP, Milet Poscurica, submitted to the 77th Amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21592	These ten MEPs should inform those 120 absent (naturally, reasonably absent) that there is an amendment to Article 77. I hope, Mr. Chairman, that you won't mind me not reading all the details and details of this amendment, because this Article in paragraph 3 contains 11 warning messages to be printed on the group and individual packaging of tobacco products. Even in one of the views, it is said that it should affect 40% of the surface on the back. I'm not getting into those technical details about how you're gonna write those bans. Mr. Mileta Poscurica has submitted an amendment for professional reasons, as a physician, to correct one inaccuracies contained in point 2). It would be too degutant to read these terrible warnings that you've formulated like this. Of course, you're not ready to accept this, although there are a lot of basics in the profession of Professor Poscurica. What is important for this amendment and this article – you see, you did not bother to say that the country's number one enemy is tobacco and cigarettes. You don't have this kind of drug ban. We have two messages about the fight against drugs; there's something about sports – sports is life, drugs is something, etc. But you essentially advertise drugs, like Bajaga, Igor Perović, treated, untreated, etc. You're holding on to the subject of drugs. The Netherlands lets women of the same sex get married there, married couples of the same sex adopt children, etc. You don't mind. You think that the connection to European integration, to be Europeans at all costs, is all that is the visible vice of the West. If it comes with this logic of how propaganda passwords and warnings of states and society are defended by some vices... I don't argue that what I'm saying is wrong. This is what you have concluded to be in article 77, along with this addition of Mr. Poscurica; let it go like that, that is the tendency. I just want to show you that with the same amount you're not directed towards other vices. If this logic is accepted, then there should be a warning at the entrance to every bank – who both goes to jail. Who lives in some extramarital community of people of the same sex should go to jail. You're not going to put that on. You advertise it. We just tried to make fun of you. You planned the tubs for the delivery vans. Traffic must have a wet knot. There's probably an air ionizer in the next step. Maybe a picture of the minister turns out. His Majesty must be represented by a picture; he is awake, in the form of a picture, following the traffic. Having more than 126 votes in this assembly of the National Assembly does not mean that any stupidity can be a legal norm. I don't know how you're not ashamed to propose such regulations. These are regulations that offend the dignity of the citizens to whom these regulations will apply. At the beginning of this debate, you said the peasant would not be punished. I read you a provision where you predicted punishment for the peasant if it is not in your scheme, and your scheme, in addition to what we published in that book, is in that book Jovica Stanisic, because it cannot be bypassed anywhere. That book should probably be complemented by one more piece. Sister Milo Djukanovic is a lawyer and she runs to Italy every six months, with two or three million euros each, to pay that state prosecutor not to mention her brother for at least six months. You know everything. That's where our book convinces the opposition in Montenegro. It used to be hard for them to mention the SRS, but when these proceedings started, when the story of five major smuggling channels opened, the great-grandfather and teacher of Canet Frog, the famous Vanji Bocan, and so on... There was also an argument; there is now in the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly, I think it was Grujic, the one representing the Bocan family here. They threw him out, saw he was a fraud, too. He bought a company. This is a law that is primarily in the function of not state monopoly, not state control, but in the function of achieving some of the interests of some individuals. Just to remind you, last year when the Excise Act changed, Dinkic went out for a pay phone and criticised his previous DS coalition partners for what they did in the Excise Act and gave five-year protection to those faces, individuals who bought our cigarette-making factories. That's when he said, so he was warned or paid, and he didn't mention it anymore. Just to remind you, you from G17 plus, you didn't exist at the time as a party, so I can't respect you, but do you remember anyone called Wolf or Wolf Minic? He was hired to discuss who smuggled cigarettes and to find Milosevic's money in Cyprus. He was arrested here. Wolfishin - Wolf Miniæ. To him, Mladjan Dinkic and the National Bank of Serbia, who hired him under some contract, also remained in his agency. It's no good to forget quickly. Rest assured, we won't let you forget, we'll keep reminding you. As we will remind Radojko Obradovic of his famous bill, which has 67 members, and in the text of Law 65. You see, you now have a very decent Rules of Procedure that even one man can sit in the assembly hall with the president and chat. You were doing it. People scream when they see a half-empty room. Don't be surprised they call you every morning from 06.00 till 9:00 this morning, they got up on B92 on "Raise." Wake up a little early and hear how the public is encouraged against you, about your wages, coming, not coming, etc. We agree, we fight smoking and the harmful fact of cigarettes. Fifty percent of the activities you have directed towards this law towards drug abuse, according to these sick people you advertise, but in a very specific way – the fight against discrimination by some allegedly a minority. It's not discrimination. These homosexuals are sick people. Medicine said they were sick people. You advertise them. Remember, you're destroying the state, and by this law you're destroying the state. It's all clear now. 126 has to dissipate quickly. You've seen what it looks like when the president or president of the assembly goes to the back row of the gym. No one notices her anymore. She got a moral and public conviction for what she did. Of course, Markovic does it far better than he does it, and the Greota is for comparison. Take care, the people do not forgive anyone for demeaning. Mladjan Dinkic has disrespected citizens of the Republic of Serbia with all the regulations he has proposed. I warn you, you cooperate with one man, you have nothing to do with his personal interests. He abuses you, but you agree to it. As you can see, many times we are not fundamentally different in some opinions, but we have the courage to condemn it, stamp it, say it from this pay phone. I invite you to be a little braver in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21593	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 98 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legal, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Slobodan Zivkucin has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 98a be added after article 98a. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 99 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The government has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 99 be added after article 99. The Committee on Finance has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Dunjic to Article 102. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Goran Dunjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21594	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 102. A draft tobacco law, and I suggest that the word "sequential" be replaced by the word "eight." Otherwise, by adopting this amendment, the law is in line with Article 120. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-09-0.u21595	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're finishing today's work. The session will be held tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record, I find that the session is attended by 88 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 84 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than a third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly I would like to inform you that it has been prevented from attending the sittings of MP Radojko Obradovic. We move to the 13th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE POLICE (specificities) You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: together Sanja Čeković, Blagica Kostic, Staniša Stevanović and Milan Ninić, Momir Marković, Vjerica Radeta, Nemanja Sarović, Zoran Krasic, Petar Jojic, Natasa Jovanovic, Milord Mirčić, Bozidar Koprivica, Milan Stevović, Jovan Daja, together Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerović, together Milosevic Albianić, Ksenija Milivojevic and Rajko Baralić, as well as the Legislative Committee. National MPs: Miloljub Albianić, Ksenija Milivojevic, Goran Jaksic, Miroslav Zivkovic and Marko Krstinna members: 171, 172, 174, 176, 178, 178, 178, 179, 179 and 180; Ljiljana Nestorović and Meso Omerović on members: 6, 78, 80 and 183; Ljiljana Nestorović on Article 5 and Meso Omerović on Article 5. You have received reports from the Committee on Defence and Security, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on European Integration. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 40(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go.
