ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12925	Ladies and gentlemen, because of the way the Assembly works, the replica is on display from almost ten days ago, given the crawl from last Friday to today. It was a question of MP Tomislav Nikolic -- which I think when I say that Serbia needs an anti-memorandum and whether I mean a memorandum made by the SRS as a programme, party, party document on Kosovo and Metohija. Of course not. The memo items, which were proposed by the radicals, concerning Kosovo and Metohija, were not in any part the subject of my presentation. In that sense, the clarification, in the hope that by the end of this day we will come together to the conclusion that the resolution proposed should be withdrawn from the agenda and there should be no vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12926	The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, and let the MP Ljiljana Nestorovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12927	Dear fellow Members of the People, this resolution, in my opinion, has two dimensions. One is human, the other is political. Unfortunately, in our terms, these two dimensions still cannot be compatible. We haven't been over the children's disease of political pluralism yet, even though we've become adolescents long ago. This human dimension, it proved through a debate that ran last week, was foreign to many speakers. The hatred they feel for Slobodan Milosevic is so strong that they were unable to rise above it, as serious politicians. Privately, in my opinion, each of us can think of him for whatever he wants, but we haven't come to this Parliament in a private line, but the citizens of Serbia have chosen us to think and work on what's waiting for us, or the future, not going back to the past, because what we don't do today will wait for us tomorrow and tomorrow can be too late. If you have so much trouble with Slobodan Milosevic, put in this resolution any other name, put in Vojislav Seselj, put in Gordana Pop-Lazic, any name, and you will see that she is very acceptable. Anyone can find themselves in a similar situation. We radicals have one experience regarding the violation of our president's human rights in The Hague and we know what it was like for him, for us and for our family when he couldn't contact them and for eight months. With that in mind, we understand the situation of Slobodan Milosevic, with the state perhaps even more responsible for him, because everything that happens to him there will have repercusions on all of us, on our future, on our children, on our grandchildren. He was still the president of our country and he defends his country's interests there. It is precisely because of the tobacco, and disappointed by what I have heard from representatives of individual parliamentary groups, some have left this session, not agreeing either with the resolution, or during the debate, that this parliament is forming one group, one delegation to which representatives of all parliamentary groups would join, and that would visit all of our citizens in The Hague tribunal, so that we may postpone the decision on this resolution after returning from The Hague. Let's see how they, what they do, what conditions they live in, how they prepare for the defense, so when we get back here to Belgrade, let's sit down and talk again and decide whether or not we should help them in this way or we should turn our backs completely. I will institutionally put this proposal on the agenda of the committee responsible. I hope most will show interest in the Hague. To tell you the truth, I think it's a mistake that we haven't done it by now. We have the right to do that. I don't believe anyone can refuse us, and our experience would be precious to all the other MPs. On the platform of hatred for Slobodan Milosevic, I don't think any political party can survive anymore. Maybe it could have been in 2000, and in 2005, it can't. You cannot base your policy on hate, but only on vision, or what you expect and what you promise Serbian citizens in the future. According to me and the promoters, this resolution did not aim to glorify the character and work of Slobodan Milosevic, as some have tried to present it. Perhaps the resolution itself is more of a reason to talk about those who counter-constitutionally delivered to The Hague Slobodan Milosevic, and since in some rule of law they will have to respond at some time, we should show understanding of such a political will, that is, a political act that would guarantee the members of the Slobodan Milosevic family that they can return to the country. Crimes that are burdened against them do not even exist in some legislation, in some countries even a warrant does not apply. And the calls for us to leave everything to the state authorities I think are insufficient at this point, when we still can't say that all state institutions are functioning in accordance with the Constitution and the law, in a situation where there are still political pressures on certain state authorities, and above all I mean the prosecution and the judiciary. Let us show good will and say, you can go back, you won't be the subject of persecution, it's a time long behind us, it's been a state of emergency. We know how human rights were violated at the time, that's when they left the country. There were those who ended up with bags on their heads, but that's a long time ago behind us. This is where the independent judiciary works. None of us politicians will affect them. What the court has to do, let the prosecution do their job, but we're here to protect you. I don't know why it's so hard, unless it's out of the question that it's only Slobodan Milosevic, against whom in 2000, many political parties led such a heifer, and that heist has continued in both the media and all the institutions of the state. It's about a man who's in custody, who's in The Hague defending the interests of this country, and I don't think it should be too hard for us to raise our hands for this resolution. Unfortunately, there is also this atmosphere that is currently ruling in parliament, the president is constantly warning about silence, some MPs are leaving the session again, showing that we are not mature enough to adopt one such act. It's our reality, but as far as we Serbian radicals are concerned, we've tried, our conscience is clear, we'll always take sides of the state's interest, no matter what you think. In the past, we've done a lot of things in the past, every time we have to, and today we do it, as conditions require. We resent what needs to be done, but we are looking into the future and we are not ashamed to say that at this point we should allow not Carly del Ponte to pursue its goal, but Slobodan Milosevic to prepare himself as best as possible for further trial.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12928	The People's MP Ljiljana Nestorovic has the word, and let the MP Milorad Mircic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12929	Dear fellow Members, I have carefully read the text of the proposed resolution, and I believe it was logical that, in addition to the general posts, the specific examples and clear arguments on the alleged politically motivated persecution by the competent authorities and the abuse of judicial and executive authorities for political purposes, and against members of the Milosevic family. The motionor or motionors of the resolution did not provide any evidence of persecution, which is very generally referred to in the resolution itself. So I believe there is absolutely no evidence of such persecution. Not only is there no evidence in the resolution, but as a citizen, I believe there is absolutely no word of persecution and I do not know what is actually spoken of in this text. What I do know is that certain members of the Milosevic family are being prosecuted. Mr. Milosevic's son is being prosecuted in Pozarevec, Ms. Markovic is being treated for abuse in an affair over the assignment of apartments. Then, against Marija Milosevic, daughter of Slobodan Milosevic, as you know, proceedings are being conducted for the illegal use of firearms. As it is also known to everyone, Mrs Markovic left this country voluntarily. When she left the country, she had a passport. I really don't know what kind of persecution we're talking about here. I believe that it is the duty of every citizen of this country and every normal country to, if accused of any action, go to court and appear regularly there, as is the right and every citizen to sue someone if they are injured or damaged, and the obligation of the state to conduct judicial proceedings in accordance with the law. The resolution should also state what is not in accordance with the law, what abuses of the state authorities are and to see the charges listed by those who feel persecuted or their authorities, that it has indeed reported to someone, to the police. I'm not aware that's what actually happened. In the end, I have to come to the point of what I essentially wanted to say in this presentation, which is that the very text of the resolution with its conclusions is legally and formally impossible and unacceptable. Namely, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has absolutely no mandate, nor the authority to impose anything on state authorities in the way this resolution is required. The National Assembly may, as it is known, ask the government's question of trust, to relieve judges, but absolutely cannot order the judicial authority to do what needs to be done. It's absolutely not in her jurisdiction. I also believe that members of the Milosevic family can return freely to Serbia, but that courts must be treated the same as any other citizen's obligation in this country. I think it has simply become a pattern that anyone who represents or represents something politically, if the court calls him to account, declares himself a political victim. I still think that, in the end, I have to say that this resolution, and the fact that we are discussing it here, is essentially a kind of pressure on both the prosecution and the court, that in essence this public through parliament is being telephoned to the public prosecutor and the investigative judge to put an end to the proceedings. Otherwise, if we are talking about persecution, that this state should act affirmably to protect the rights of all citizens from persecution, then it would be interesting to hear what they have to say about the families of Curuvija, Stambolic, 19 families of kidnapping victims in Strpce, victims of the Ibar highway and many others.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12930	The word is made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, representative of the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12931	It is immoral to conclude a speech at the National Assembly's session of charges of day-to-day political affairs and to transfer it to Slobodan Milosevic's insinuations and to advocate the independence of the judiciary and to condemn the one the court finds guilty. There is another dose of immorality at the beginning of your presentation, when you said there was no evidence of political persecution of the Milosevic family, and we took one honest man away from the scene, I think the Deputy Prime Minister, perhaps I was wrong, based on your stories that he sexually harassed you. Is that when we were looking for evidence? Was there any need for evidence back then? Was it a kind of persecution of a man who pointed to a crime in the DOS ranks? When you're discussing anyone, go away from yourself, a distinguished colleague. Is there any evidence that Milosevic orchestrated the murder of Slavko Curuvija? How much longer? Is there any evidence that he staged an assassination at the Ibaric Master's Office? Didn't a representative of the families killed at the Ibaric magistrate sue Zoran Djindjic for the same murder? Do you have any evidence that Milosevic has staged a kidnapping in the Strpci? What kind of way is it, whenever there's some information here about what the current government is doing or what the government is doing that you directly participate in, you as the child who gets the unit, you point to some kid who didn't know anything about it, and he got a two. You have all the defenses - all that was done before us by Milosevic. What did the people change if you kept doing the same thing? There's enough evidence, if you want to read the evidence, I explained it in the opening statement. When DOS came to power, political persecution started with the Slobodan Milosevic family; first Slobodan Milosevic and then all members of his family. Maybe in 2001 it could have been under the company what he was doing. The people expected you to prove what he was doing, so he deserved, both the wife and the son, and the daughter-in-law and the grandkids to be exiled. But I didn't see that evidence, what Slobodan Milosevic did that you didn't bury for a year with your actions. That's why you limit yourself: either you're in or you're against it. I know you're against it, and I didn't suggest this because I thought you'd be in. But whenever you need protection, whenever someone comes after you, feel free to contact the SRS. You'll have our protection. I don't want to see which political party you belong to and what regime you belong to. Don't tell me Mira Markovic left the country voluntarily. That was in "Sabbe" action. No one volunteered to go down the street in Sabela. Whoever walked down the street watched him run across the street as fast as possible, as if he were under sniper fire. Don't talk about it being regular court proceedings. I convinced you they didn't. I convinced you there was no action. Perhaps you know that there are some major acts committed by the Milosevic family. But the court doesn't have a trial in which to judge those difficult acts. The only processes against the Slobodan Milosevic family are those that I have now cited to you in the opening presentation. Marko Milosevic threatened with a motor saw, the damaged says there was no motor saw. Mira Markovic accused of inciting in the third knee. Marija Milosevic is accused of using weapons. You haven't solved that case in four years. You want it to last 30, 40 years, while they're alive. It's the best thing to do. You're breaking out of the country, you're issuing warrants, there's no going back, you're attacking them all the time, and Milosevic has to defend himself. That bothers you, that there's no catharsis, but so-called. The international community is going through catharsis at a trial in The Hague. It reveals her crimes, not the crimes of the Serb people and Slobodan Milosevic. Don't let that bother you. We're building a state in which no citizen will mind if the state is honorable. The way we fought for you to be behind this pay phone today was honorable. If we hadn't fought, you wouldn't have been after this rumor. Unfortunately, it remains for those, as these reformers say, the reformers are the first to fail, the country's defenders are the first to fail. Churchill lost his first election after World War II. We're all aware of that. You had your chance in 2001 and you showed yourself and who you are and who you are. That book is closed. So limit yourself to what the proposal is. I'm not asking judges not to judge by law, I'm asking them to judge by law. I'm not asking them to pursue anyone, I'm asking them to stop the persecution. It's not a interference in the judiciary. Every Serbian citizen thus has the right to interfere in judicial power. Every citizen on the street has the right to say - stop haunting me more, if you took the money or if the government ordered you. Every citizen has the right to demand that the dispute be concluded. I ask that disputes against the Milosevic family end, end. If we hadn't gotten involved in this, the district court in Povorevec would never have considered the case of Marko Milosevic. What if his name was Simonovic? You wouldn't mind. You'd stand up for it. Therefore, please concentrate and remember how you needed protection in time and how the congregation gave you that protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12932	The word has a folk MP Ljiljana Nestorovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12933	I was really trying to speak in principle here and not bring in any excess political passions or ideologies. Of course I have a completely different opinion from the promoter, it's my legitimate right, such as your legitimate right to propose this and, as you can see, it's on the agenda of the Assembly. I just made an observation. No, not really anyone who reads this resolution can see the specific examples of persecution. You're saying these lawsuits take an inappropriate amount of time. It might take a little while for those who were to appear to defend themselves in these proceedings to appear. I also have to say that I know very well what it means to go through a judicial maltretman in a state where the judiciary doesn't work very well. It is ugly of you to call me on a personal basis, especially if you know that after three years of my appearance and proof in Obradovic's affair, against the man you say was rightly and unfairly removed here, the court ruled that he was guilty. The fact that he was removed was not my will, but the will of the prime minister, who did not want the government to be burdened with such an affair. That's what's true. When we talk about these things, please be minimally politically correct, we do not need to be political enemies, but political inexperience. Once again, I believe that if we talk here about the principle of combating persecution, we cannot name one man and his family, while ignoring the fact that here and today, as well as during Milosevic, the members of many families are in a situation that they feel persecuted. And it should be the subject of the struggle of this congregation. And Milosevic, as a representative of the Supreme Authority then, is the most responsible man, if he did not order these things himself, is objectively responsible for what was happening, and there has been a lot going on, and also because nothing has been done to shed light on the background of these events, but the country has been dragged into hatred and fears that have resulted in all that they are. Let's talk in principle, not hide behind the principle, just to send a message to the state authorities to suspend the proceedings against one family and its members.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12934	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Milorad Mircic (not here). The People's Messenger Aleksandar Radosavljevic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Toma Busetic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12935	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected presidency, for the DS, the proposed resolution represents a slap on democratic Serbia. It is a slap to all those people who have worked for ten years on the process of strengthening institutions and democratisation of state and society. What is said in the proposed resolution? The alleged persecution of the Milosevic family. Let's remind ourselves who this Milosevic family really is. The Milosevic family, which will be recorded in black letters in the history of the Serbian state; the persecution of a family who has been consciously working to mutilate the state and society; the alleged persecution of that family for which the policies of hundreds of thousands of young people have left the country. About the alleged persecution of that family for which the authorities produced unrecorded hyperinflation, robbed old foreign currency savings, imposed sanctions, Serbia waged war with the whole world. About the alleged persecution of that family that waged wars in which we didn't ultimately participate, in which thousands of people lost their lives, and hundreds of thousands banished from their hearths. About the alleged persecution of that family that produced death, hunger, misery, fear and chaos. Serbia's parliament is discussing this family today. The democratic party in this debate defends the proud Serbia that will not and cannot forget. Not to shine, but to serve as a warning and a teaching for future generations. The democratic party in the debate also defends the decent majority Serbia, which is under Slobodan Milosevic and Mirjana Markovic, insulted, humiliated and trampled. That is why the Democratic Party, without any restraint, says loud and clear -- yes, Slobodan Milosevic should and must be responsible for what he has done for the past 10 or 15 years in Serbia. We are talking about the alleged persecution of the Milosevic family, and we are forgetting to ask ourselves what is wrong with the Djindjic family. Isn't it a persecution that the security guard of the murdered prime minister reads books the author of which is one of the murderers? What about families whose children have remained on various battlefields forever? Will their parents ever play with their grandchildren, as did Slobodan Milosevic? We're talking about the alleged persecution of that family that completely destroyed society, sowed fear, robbed Serbia, introduced principles of blackmail, threats, extortion, as models of society, quite normal and natural, I guess. We're talking about this family today. The Democratic Party and Democratic Serbia know that there is no problem at this time in a part of the proposal, in the Socialist Party of Serbia, which we have on the agenda today. The problem is with those who put Serbia in a time machine and who return it to the 1990s. The happiest would be those sleepers if Slobodan Milosevic returned to them today, but they would have a big problem with what to do with Vojislav Kostunica. Respecting all those people who suffered and paid for Slobodan Milosevic's policy, the Democratic Party will not and will not forget them and will do so with the same strength and energy as on February 3, 1990, when we renewed our work, and with the same will on October 5th, when we set out to clear Serbia, only now we are more experienced because we have had the opportunity to see who truly wanted change in Serbia, and who wanted to make arrangements with the executioners believing that Serbia could be democrazed. Kostunica's policy is the product of today's resolution. Democratic Serbia, to conclude once again, got a hot slap, but I am also convinced that democratic Serbia, with the Democratic Party, will start the process stopped on 12 March 2003, will end in a valid manner.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12936	The word is made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12937	Since you spoke here on behalf of the Democratic Party, I expect you to go and dig up the graves of the ancestors of Slobodan Milosevic and take them to trial. And they are guilty of being the ancestors of Slobodan Milosevic. Your whole speech here was dedicated to the Milosevic family's guilt, and I'm just warning you that the court is talking about guilt. The court finds the blame, not the Messengers of the people. If the MPs found guilty, Mr. Radosavljevic, you would never be a national MP again, because you waved forged plane tickets to which Neda Arneric arrived from Bodrum to vote. That you cover yourselves well, both in your ears and in other parts of your body, and don't answer from this pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12938	Replica, Mr. Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12939	Mr. Nikolic and I and all MPs of the Democratic Party, and the last member of the Democratic Party, can always and at any time, all of you look into your eyes. I'm aware of the political scar I'm wearing because of the Bodrum affair. I'm not hiding and I'm not running away from it, but to remind you, the Democratic Party may have made a political precedent in Serbia on this issue. The moment the president of Serbia, to remind you, Serbian President Boris Tadic, and at that time the voter, found out about information we didn't have, he told the public. Responsible politicians are now resigning to their functions. I did it, and we apologized to the citizens. Will you apologize to the citizens for what you've been doing with the SPS in recent years? I didn't get a chance to hear anything like that. I say once again that I can always look you in the eye and we can always go to Kragujevac, me and you, see what any of us are worth and what it's worth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12940	National MP Vukelic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12941	Dear MPs, there's a kind of real and complete immorality and hypocrisy that those people who go out for a pay phone and say the worst thing about themselves, and they think they've solved it all. He says, yes, I lied, I stole, I arrested, and I think that's it. It's not. This results in consequences. "I falsified, stole, lied," where that came from. He's not saved by the testimony that a man gives from some evil man. Those who were truly executioners, during whose time the authorities were killed, during whose time without sanctions from the country came out as many young people as they had before, who had passed the labour law by voting from Thessaloniki, other laws from Bodrum, which decided to change the Constitution with a simple majority in the Assembly, which had never happened anywhere, that committed the greatest crime committed in the civilized world, and restricted human rights, arrested 12,000 people in a hurry, under whose authority the police carried out tortures, buried, shot around them, used electricity, beat up the bats, abused, killed the painter Tapi, etc., this government suddenly, the executioner, wants to turn himself into a righteous. A criminal to turn into a victim. So we suddenly have a flood and we see why this congregation declaration is necessary. It is necessary because we have one party of dangerous intentions, which identifies the laws and the Constitution with its mere volunteerism and mere revolutionary will, which boasts that it does not respect the Constitution, nor the law, which creates an alibi for bombings and sanctions, which alone does not mention it as the causes of our troubles and troubles. It is clear that this resolution is necessary because we still, after all these years, after so many constitutions in Serbia, 15 so far have been passed, and after a precise constitution and a precise constitutional basis, we have the consciousness that the government, arrests, judges, introduces over the courts, just as the minister of justice of that government Batic has sought the death penalty for a month or two days to kill whoever needs to be interrupted by the court. We have that power and that logic politically back on track. This political logic wants to be presented as a democratic Serbia, no less or less, one that respects neither laws nor the Constitution, etc. In addition, he utters the worst truths, tells the truths about someone being guilty before the court, that some process has not even begun, etc. Every performance they have in the congregation, and especially at this last session, says that this resolution is increasingly necessary and that whoever suspected it, if he has a conscience, must vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12942	Mr. Radosavljevic, I assume you're looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure. No, the replica on the replica doesn't exist, but you'll probably use the law under some member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12943	I'm glad Mr. Vucelic admitted that he lied, stole, kidnapped, destroyed Serbia's state...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12944	Just tell me which member.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12945	According to Article 100... that one of the main protagonists of war-homan politics was on RTS. I'm glad, Mr. Wolfellic, that you object to me about it. Just to remind you, were you the man who was with, how many, hundreds of thousands of Swiss francs educated his daughter, and until then the citizens had no money to buy children bread and milk? Were you the man who was so moral, honest, and upright, that you might speak to us about it? After all, it is obvious that Milosevic does not trust you, because at least he remembers, and the public of Serbia, what you told him after October 5th, that this man is out of the world, that he lives in another dimension, that he has nothing to do with reality; if Milosevic had believed in you, he would have spoken to you, to the native party, to defend him, not to seek support in radicals. Therefore, do not Vucelic, indeed, only how can I qualify you for what you said, that is: it is terrible what you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12946	Replica, MP Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12947	In the absence of any argument, but according to the old method, Mr Radosavljevic, caught in fraud, the lies I pointed out, trying to make personal disqualifications of someone, continuing the activity of their liberal group, in which those who falsely represent themselves gathered, the hour as Democrats, is trying to disabling me. No policy of war, Mr. Radosavljevic, has been led on RTS. And if you had listened carefully, you would have known that these mujahedins were your argument, and Markales, and the street of Vasa Miskina, and other crimes, that these are things that have been set up and pushed against the Serbian people, and today every citizen who is better informed, and worse, in Serbia, and every citizen in the world knows it. You have countless books that speak of what was done, just as you could see yesterday in a newspaper, and the day before yesterday, a picture of mujahedin with a severed Serbian head. That's why RTS was called war-hoc, and then after September 2001, it became a speech of truth, not a hate speech. That's one. Next, Mr. Radosavljevic, I've been a private ten years old, and I've worked since 1995, and I've never received a salary in any state body until today. So I'm not going to get involved in a discussion about children and people who use arguments from children, fathers, mothers, mother-in-laws, these are arguments from a well-known fascist repertoire, it's known, I'm not taking part in it. If you're interested in all this, you can ask all the tax authorities, all the inspections that have been in my business for 10 years. You're getting nothing for your "worrisome" qualifications and your like. You are truly one society of dangerous intentions. You brought an unconstitutional state of emergency, you killed, you arrested 12,000 people, and you beat Pinochet's record, lightning, and three times more, you beat the record of Informburo. Some 11500, 18 million in Yugoslavia, were treated there by administrative means. The emergency decision is unconstitutional. You should be responsible for that decision and it's the process of this judiciary. It is necessary that at last all of your lies, the inventions you make in the name of democracy, be brought to justice. This is not the task of this congregation debate. The task is just to point out how the executioner wants to turn himself into a victim and how the criminal being wills, and who admits it, to turn himself into the righteous. You won't get away with it in front of the public. And as your government did, and what you did, and your assembly of the Parliament before, that's what the people have already shown in the previous elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12948	The word is made by MP Rajko Baralic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12949	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the provisions of article 100 have been violated. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I cannot be elected representatives of the executioners. A strong qualification, and I understand the passion of political struggle, but it is impossible to insult 30,000 citizens in this way, and there are so many thousands of citizens behind each MP, and from this pay phone to talk about elected representatives and to hurt those people who vote for and such MPs. Among other things, this resolution mentions members of the family of President Slobodan Milosevic. Let's remind ourselves of where other presidents' children are: Ali Izetbegovic's son is in the middle of Cačka has the biggest megamarket in Southeast Europe, and it's called "Inter-ex"; daughter of Stjepan Mesic around Čačka, in Požega, has bought the largest megamarket, and three laws have been broken, and have violated the representatives of your government, "Jelen do", the biggest quarry in this part of Europe, where she bought an unrenewable natural resource, and she could only buy a scalp, what she produces, and not a mineral site; Dubravka Tudjman has a company with 80 employees in Belgrade, she does not lack hair from her head; Vladimir Gligorov, in the middle of Belgrade, criticises my and your authority, director of a single institute. Is it possible there is no room in Serbia only for Mark Milosevic. I have never been a fan of the Milosevic family, but all things in Serbia should be called the real name. Is it possible that all of these can work normally, illegally buying non-renewable natural resources in Serbia, to operate without any restrictions. I advocate, the ideal of my political struggle is that all citizens in this country can function normally, regardless of religious, national and political confidence. Is it only because Marko Milosevic is the son of Slobodan Milosevic or that Mirjana Markovic is his wife, or other members of his family, is it only an argument that they cannot be in the country. I remind you, Marija Raseta-Vukosavljevic has a ban on leaving the country. She flew in from Vienna yesterday. I'm asking the authorities who let her have a passport, if she's being prosecuted. Do you want me to tell you the flight number? You want me to tell you where she was and what she was doing there. Tell everyone how it is and how it's supposed to be. So I'm asking you to put the ball down, let's talk about things at the level of arguments. If we get into emotion, we'll say something else that we're not able to control, and then it'll cause political damage, and not just that, many citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12950	You're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12951	There are no sinners here. You've said a lot of things that can't be proved today. In the middle of court proceedings, you talk about things like they're closed and the guilty are qualified, like they're being punished. (Chairman: Please finish.) I'm done. Let things go as prescribed by law. No more "hold the thieves," arguments in the sun, and then we'll talk about whether or not he can do anything. Everything I've said is absolutely correct, and if you don't believe it, check it out. Every detail of my word has already been made public. They advertised the cabinets of various presidents that this was not true. The director of the Inter-Ex company in Cacca, owned by the son of Ali Izetbegovic, said it is an honor for him to have facilities both in Serbia and in countries, so he listed them, both in Kosovo. It is not enough for them to make money in Chačka, but for more Kosovo to declare a state in the middle of Cačka, where they have a large hypermarket. We need to take care of everything that's going on. That's all they've acquired, those rights they acquired during the time that you... (President: You've overstepped for two minutes. )......................................................................................................... They've exercised power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12952	The People's Messenger Toma Busetic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zoran Alimpic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12953	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, the persecution of President Slobodan Milosevic and his family lasts from 5 October to today. The persecution is done by them, at this point, primarily for the reason that in this way they weaken the maestral defence of Slobodan Milosevic in The Hague, of course, again, with the fat help of the external factor, the foreign factor, and for good dollar sums. Persecution is done both out of personal hatred and unreasonable revenge. On the other hand, they do nothing to stop this persecution, those who are afraid to be transferred to them by Slobodan Milosevic, again without reason. But what everyone needs to know, and what they forget, is that October 5th has long gone by, that the great promises have been betrayed, beginning from 6.5 billion to a better life, that even in Serbia today, even in people who voted against the SPS and Slobodan Milosevic, there are no more charges. According to our polls, nearly half of these voters, DOS voters, with sympathies and a lot of understanding follow the defence of Slobodan Milosevic in The Hague. And a large number of these voters say that the time of the 1990s was better than it is now. Today, there are many more hungry and disfigured, five years after October 5th. But what we want to say, or propose to most Serbia, is that Serbia is a patriotic Serbia, is to stop this political persecution of President Milosevic and his family and turn to key state and national issues, which are -- the survival of Serbia, the survival of the federal state, the defence of Kosovo and Metohija, faster economic development, but also the defence and assistance of all indictees in The Hague. Why is The Hague important? The Hague is important because there is an attempt to end and forge history in The Hague to accuse us of Balkan wars, for World War I, for World War II, for the destruction of the former Yugoslavia. So it's not about the individual guilt, it's about the general guilt. It's going to be a general guilt. All statesmen have been charged, starting from Ilia Garashanin to Slobodan Milosevic. The institutions, the military, the government, the president of the state, one, the other, are also accused of the Serbian Academy and the Serbian Orthodox Church. There's a farce in The Hague. Slobodan Milosevic speaks brilliantly of the truth, about events that took place in the former Yugoslavia between 1990 and 2000. And it is true that the wars began by others, that they were driven by powerful forces, primarily by Germany and America, and the separatist leadership of Croatia, Slovenia, and Bosnia. It is true that humanitarian disasters in Kosovo and Metohija were not, that it was created only by NATO bombing. The truth is that Albanians had all the rights other than the right to the state, and that's what they're looking for right now. It is true that the international community played an unfair role in the Yugoslav crisis, starting with the hiding of UN Secretary-General Butros Galli's report, which says that Serbia, i.e. the SRJ, has met all the conditions related to Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has led us to sanctions, including directed and mounted events in Račka and Markalam, which have resulted in bombings both Yugoslavia and Republika Srpska, with radioactive bombs. And you know the consequences of all this today. And, the words of Slobodan Milosevic confirm all, prominent statesmen and politicians, start with James Baker, former foreign minister and state secretary of America, who said that the international community did nothing to preserve Yugoslavia, to Lord Owen, Lord Karington, who said that early recognition led to war in these areas. The truth is confirmed by Franjo Tudjman and Izetbegovic, but, behold, DS MPs tell a different story. And that's the scariest thing. And now that we're talking about The Hague, Jeffrey Najs and Carla del Ponte aren't needed for us, so everything Carla del Ponte, Jeffrey Najs, says to Chad, Baby, so to God and Gordana Komic. What do they say? Here's what they say - behind every war criminal's corner, the Memorandum is guilty of everything, as if Serbia were equal in 1986; the 90th Constitution was radical and led to wars, what nonsense; that we in the Balkan wars had an effect on Kosovo and Metohija. It's the same story. Everything Carla says says and these people say it. Of course, there are all these foreign mercenaries, NGOs, allegedly independent analysts, experts, spies, all of them on that side. But Slobodan Milosevic is the main target because his defences are dropping all these charges. We believe that this resolution should be adopted, that Serbia's majority will support this resolution and show understanding. Besides, I'd like to remind you -- the entire DOS regime after October 5th has released 2,000 Shipatarian terrorists, convicted, with proven guilt. Well, that was the most demeaning of this people. And we expect nothing from those who extradited Slobodan Milosevic. It is certain that one day they will answer. The later and the older they become, the harder they will be, but we want to tell them to hate themselves, because there is great hatred for Slobodan Milosevic. I personally realized what that hatred was about. Hate is primarily because Slobodan Milosevic was superior to the political scene of Serbia. And not only Serbia, everywhere in the world. Slobodan Milosevic was superior and dominant in knowledge and state performance. And how is Serbia today? Except for a few politicians, everyone else is outsiders, people are not grown up to lead parties, let alone the state. It's Serbia today. That's where that hate comes from. I don't think it's necessary to get anything out of it. And what's more important and what I'm trying to say is that we don't need an ex-post mind, when we say that this resolution needs to be adopted, we don't need an ex-post mind that, for example. He's spreading Nebojsa Covic these days. Nebojsa Covic says when it comes to the role of the international community in Kosovo and Metohija, when it comes to Serbia's position as the best Socialist, and so he said in the 1990s, so we talked and that's true. But after October 5th, you remember what Nebojsa Covic said, and all DOS leaders, the issue of Kosovo and Metohija is just a matter of democracy. The issue of the survival of the common state is only a matter of democracy. The question of a better life is also a matter of democracy. Well, has any of these most important issues been resolved since October 5th? Nothing got rid of it. The situation is even worse in Kosovo than it was in 2000. The survival of the common state is at risk until the end. A better life, what better life? Today, Serbia is more hungry than all 10 years, from 1990 to 2000. It's all true. That's why we suggest that this resolution be adopted. Because, besides all these political arguments, what is the accused family of Slobodan Milosevic? Professor Markovic - for encouraging the instigator. Nonsense. And this thing about Marko Milosevic, he said Vucelic, I think he's really without any arguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12954	The word is from MP Zoran Alimpic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12955	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the motion for a resolution on the agenda is unnecessary. It's based on false claims, it's illegal and unconstitutional, and it doesn't make much sense, or it's pointless. It is unclear why the ruling majority in this assembly has been in such a hurry that this resolution is on the agenda as soon as possible, why this assembly worked at night, why it was removed from the agenda a few points - just to begin the debate on this nonsense as soon as possible. Certainly not because the representatives of the majority in power were eager to say what they thought about this proposal, because they decided very quickly to leave the debate and not to participate in it. It turns out that the only purpose of this debate was to allow radicals to demonstrate their primitiveism again, their aggressive and rude rhetoric, and to give them the opportunity to re-prove incidents in the Assembly. (President: Please choose your words.) I think SRS MPs are doing this on purpose, I don't think it's their inability to control themselves. They can control themselves very well when they need it. Their goal is to lower this assembly, to defile the citizens of this country's parliament and parliamentism, to rock democracy and deter citizens from monitoring politics and from going to elections. The goal of the radical is to discredit this assembly and promote the alleged advantage of the dictatorship of the one-party system, which was so loved by Slobodan Milosevic. That's why in the first part of this session, a few days ago, we heard the MPs call themselves dogs, mice and thieves, we heard insults, including calls for physical reckoning. It's a deliberate, deliberate provocation of radicals. It wasn't anger and nerve loss, it was just faked. Those who left this room and left the radicals and the socialists to say what they wanted, without resistance and without response, were wrong. Why is this resolution pointless? Because it requires that one group of people, the citizens of this country, be forgiven for all the crimes and crimes they may have committed or will just commit, and that they be placed above and outside the law, to be discriminated against only on the basis of their family background, or on the basis of a kinship with one man. This congregation has no right to do so and will not. This family has already been in such a position, in the position of untouchable, all-powerful, who can do whatever they want unpunished and free. It was during the 1990s, during the time of the unlimited personal government of Slobodan Milosevic and his family. The citizens of this country can't get past the stories that it's political persecution, that it's unwarranted and that there's nothing sanctioned against someone's innocent wife and children. They cannot pass those stories, because the citizens of this country remember that time, remember in the 1990s, and what members of the Milosevic family were doing at the time. What message does this proposal send to Serbian citizens with radicals and socialists? The message that when you, God forbid, come back to power, the families of your leaders and presidents will be untouchable and that they will be able to do whatever they want, to be rich in carrying crates, to become owners of the biggest discotheques in the Balkans, to entertain parks, fri-shops, radio and TV stations, to attack people with motor saws, to shoot people from firearms, to give state apartments to their nannies, and that their judicial authorities will be unable to do anything, because, for God's sake, it would be politically motivated persecution. No one in this country should be exposed to persecution. That's why this resolution is unnecessary. The time of political persecution has ended or at least started to end on 5 October 2000. If there is a suspect that he has committed some crime, he should not flee abroad, but should, like any other citizen of this country, apply to the authorities, take a lawyer, go to court, and, if not guilty, be released, if he is, he should serve his sentence. Parliament cannot forgive punishment for political reasons. It is interesting why radicals have submitted this resolution, why is it explained by the head of the parliamentary group of radicals, not the SPS, the party whose Milosevic is president? Why did Milosevic, as they say, ask of them rather than his own party? Because he doesn't really care. Both parties are his. Both the SPS and the SRS were pillars of the Slobodan Milosevic regime. Both were part of the system of his unlimited authority and the government of his family during the 1990s. Even at a time when apparently they were in conflict, Milosevic's favorite opposition radicals worked in favor of his regime. That is why radicals are so angry when they are quoted as sayings about Slobodan Milosevic and his family. They said it, but they never really meant it. It bothers them when someone who really thinks so. Why did the Socialists sign this text of the resolution? Well, it says that the alleged persecution continues today, and today the government has been elected and held in power by the Socialists. They also voted in favour of the minister of justice and the minister of police. Well, if they're persecuting their president's family, why don't they just deny their support and bring down a government like that? According to this resolution, you, gentlemen of the Socialists, are the ones who support and maintain the powers of the persecutors of your president's family. You know, it's probably better than us, that they, members of that family, were inclined to abuse the absolute authority you gave them, that it compromised both you and your party, and that this resolution should not be adopted. The DS will vote against this resolution. I hope that it will be against those who left the session and that this resolution will not pass.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12956	Mr. Nikolic, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12957	I would like, as a proposing representative, to know whether the first or second part of the speech is valid, whether the DSS is involved in this co-operation with us, whether this is what Kostunica wanted to round the DS, or whether the second part of the speech is valid, in which you say the justice minister, the police minister and many other ministers fall in this way. Once again, you will learn something, this has nothing to do with the co-operation of the SRS with the DSS, G17 plus, SPO-NS, how many ruling parliamentary groups there are. If there were, it wouldn't be required to stop the persecution, but to condemn the persecution at the time of the DS government. But in this, we claim it's in continuity and day and day. If you were Vojislav Kostunica, would you accept that you co-operate on something that directly condemns you? Yes, I told someone from this pay phone that she was a dog, but the one who asked not to be baptized like that, to my remark that there was a lynching of Dragoljub Milanovic and that it was a little short for you to kick a man with sticks, tossing "a little bit of him". Well, gentlemen of the Democrats, the lynch atmosphere has disappeared even in the Wild West. And there people realized that the law had to get involved, that the village couldn't, that the city couldn't, that the state couldn't punish, that it had to go to court. Your understanding of democracy has been expressed on the Stardustr these days. Imagine, you do not accept the will of the congregation majority. The councilors gathered, voted in the municipality, made decisions in the municipality, and you went out, beat in pots, whistle in whistles, accused the councilmen. Well, what are we supposed to do in January 2004, when a coalition outside the SRS was formed here? To bring down the Assembly. What do you think, that we couldn't pull 500 thousand people out of that moment when the little one joined together and built power, and the biggest one wasn't in power? Why don't you read some books? If you'd read any book about democracy, you wouldn't have gone to the streets of Stardust. Perhaps you'd like to speak to the members of those you call your loved ones. You might agree, you might find a common language, you might collect most of it in the Serbian Parliament, but the one who calls himself a Democrats, and it comes out to demonstrate against the decision made by most in the assembly, apparently deserves to reconsider a little bit what kind of party he's taught what democracy is. You learned in a bad party what democracy is. You didn't have anyone to teach you democracy. So when you talk about everything you do about Milosevic, and about capital, and about money, and about family security, you put it all in line with what's going on in DS, with DS, around DS. Come on, weigh on one side of Milosevic and the Radicals, and now I'm telling you, I've never falsely accused Milosevic or Mira Markovic, and I don't take a word back, and I've been in jail, but it doesn't bother me to shine on them anymore. That's the difference between you and me. You'd still like to get your revenge. You'd also like to get revenge for defeating the election. Why don't you look up to us? Did we take revenge on anyone after 2000? But we didn't even stick ourselves in a rat hole. We knew that eventually the values would come to terms, we knew what they were coming to. Look how they came to power. Yesterday I watched, TV racing to tell you that you knew how to turn it off, to get all the cameras out, to watch that rally yesterday. You two want to eat at that rally. If there is no Milosevic, let's all jump on Tadic. If there's no Tadic, let's all go to Chad. All that matters to you is that you're lynching someone. It's been so long, you learn a little bit of this business. I'm getting a little old, I'm going to leave this congregation, and you're not going to learn that. You're learning this job while you're at it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12958	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12959	Ladies and gentlemen, the last nine days, there has been a fierce public campaign, as Mr. Alimpic has also led from this pay phone today. Namely, their media, the media under direct control of the DS, or some of their wings, such as B92, "Blica", "Today", "Politicals" and others, Study B, of course, led a fierce campaign against Serbian radicals, accusing of the same thing that Mr. Alimpic was talking about here. They said that radicals were primitive, and of course good and European Democrats could never be wrong or involved in such a primitive battle politically. And what was really going on here? This is important because people who watch this transmission are said to be, and it is important because of those media that are not directly controlled by DS and who do not want to deceive the public in such a way. In fact, we were present with a monster, I'd say almost the criminal behavior of DS MPs, who didn't even worry about their media followers. All day long, the party's representatives have advocated, no less, but open to the physical link of their political opponents. And you're saying that someone called for a physical examination. Well, listen, it's male, and I'm telling you -- don't call the people to deal with another part of the people, don't call those who are braver than you, and those who may sometimes think like you, but try to do it, show how brave you are, can you do it. That was the point. Come on, come and attack me, lynch me, don't send people, 50 of them beat Dragan Milanovic 60 years old, kick him in the head, and say how good it is and how nice it is. Is that your good, European behavior? You can keep your mouth shut. It's the worst kind of primitive. It's criminal behavior, Mr. Alimpic. You show the nature and structure and your party, and your former authorities, and yours, God forbid, future authorities. The same way you'd treat yourself. You'd ruin people's lives. If you can't do it differently, through your dirty media, then let's kill them physically. That's your solution. That's why you don't have to do it, to send other people. Here, you're very strong and brave, so you do it. Don't let anyone else do it on your behalf. Mr. Alimpic, you were talking here about what kind of a past period, the crates, this or that. I don't know who has the crates, and I don't know what regime you've been talking about, and I know you've been criminally, through corruption affairs, sharing money through your party for the Vuksanovic campaign against Zoran Djindjic, or have you forgotten that, too, Mr. Alimipic. There was no sign of how much money, no receipts, and you shared a lot of money. It was a little short for Vuksanovic to replace Djindjic, and you were the most exposed and most important assistant of this kind of campaign. Since you talked about all sorts of things, about who's going to have, how many cars, etc. yesterday, almost tore down the entire Hall of Pioneers, and especially that stage, but not from the number of present, was half empty, so you watched it and what side to hide, but it was something else: the weight of those who have money. All the naked thief to the thief has climbed to the stage. It was a wonder worldly and difficult for Serbia while such thieves in Europe are water.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12960	Mr. Alimpic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12961	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 100. I think calling on the physical accounts from this pay phone offends the dignity of this assembly. So, Mr. Vukic, the citizens didn't choose us to represent them in such a way that we, in their name, will be physically accounting, as you suggest. The assembly exists so that we here make arguments, that we speak under the control of the Rules of Procedure and the Chairman, that in the end we vote on it, just so that there is no physical accounting of people who think differently, either in this room, or on the street. Therefore, I reject this proposal of yours, although it may be a great pleasure to me, because we are not chosen here. As far as the Starship Community is concerned, let me tell you, it doesn't have much to do with you, gentlemen of the Radicals, you've received so few votes there that it's normal for you to be on the Star of the Opposition. It is about the error of a party given to you there by authority, I hope that this party, or their committees, will correct it very quickly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12962	Here you go, Mr. Wolfie. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12963	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I knew that Mr. Alimpic was a masochist, but this big, I didn't dream of it. As far as this false accusation is concerned, I was just saying, don't invite the people. You invited people to kill people in the streets. If you want someone to do this, don't invite other people's children to participate in killing and lynching people. In the myths of Serbian radicals, no one has ever been killed, and count how many people on your mittins have been killed, and not on the myths, but on the democratic conquest of power. Look at how many people are lynched, what, how and how you've done with them. You're talking about how everything's good on Stargazer, how everything's fine, because you deserve power there. I guess we earned it in the National Assembly to gain trust, to form a government. Is that why someone brought in citizens to beat pots, pots and lids, I don't know who to say that no one else has the right to form a government. There's one who makes most of it happen. You didn't do it because you lost one chair or one power, you did it for one simple thing, and that simple thing is that you could keep robbing the Stargazer, like you've robbed in the last 12 years, and that's the essence of the whole story. You think you're 12 years old. They say -- you noticed, we've been here for 12 years, we rule, it can't change. As Tito, for life to be written to you, you alone have the right to rule, which means, how you rule, to steal and steal, and no one can ever stop you. The time has come to stop it. As you lead, we have a broad coalition capacity, and that's why we're starting to knock you down and knock you down in every place, because everybody wants to, because they know we don't have any thieves, and you're not going to have any more, and exactly those 289 people, activists and members, as much as you've collected in front of the Star Trek, and 27 sherps and 13 pots, all of it together that you've collected, you'll be able to bang together, but nothing more against the people of Stardust you won't be able to do what you've done in the past 12 years. I'm convinced, even more at Chukarica, since you've been there for eight years to cheer and dress, that part of this folder applies to your rule in the municipality of Chukarica, soon the citizens will find out a lot about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12964	The People's MP Zoran Krasic has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Miroslav Martic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12965	In order not to get the impression that the missing agenda point, given that we hear some new concepts, through democratic fascism, etc., I have to remind you that there are two parts on the agenda. The first part refers to the end of political persecution. Political persecution exists. It's just a matter of whether someone wants to see him or not wants to talk about political persecution. That persecution exists. It is also manifested through public information funds and through the abuse of state authorities. The popular fact for all Serbian citizens is that political persecution of non-insistents started before October 5th. It's very skilled doing DS through its media, and almost all the media are theirs. Let us remember, in a newspaper article, they accuse, in the next number of newspapers, already condemning the one they've thrown their eye at. The entire DS has come up with its political struggle to focus its hatred of the former regime, and they have made a huge mistake, because part of the former regime is just members of the DS. In 1992 they were Ilija Đukić, Miodrag Perišić, so why not tell Milan Panic. After a year, the DS has significantly strengthened in power, so we have Đukic, the other one, and Radulovic, without talking about Belgrade, where they have been in power for over 12 years. This focus of hatred had to happen in principle - to concentrate hatred on something, and that something is the Milosevic family. As you can see, during the three-year most failed democratic government in the history of the Republic of Serbia, the Milosevic family is guilty. If there's a privatisation problem, it's the Milosevic family. That's how we heard yesterday that all the privatizations, at least that's what the DS guys are talking about, are thieving. They forget their minister cheered and dressed for three years. They say -- we offer a hand, we ask to agree on Kosovo and Metohija. First, the Democrats violated the resolution that was brought here. They say yesterday - we offer a favor to bring a new constitution. They blocked the constitution. Can anyone trust DS? Yes, but that corpus of the believing Democrats is so narrowed down to those who are interested in DS, those who got dirty during the DS and those who have employed the Democrats, so by some inert times two, times three should be there. You're right. Is here a conflict of this resolution between two concepts -- DS concepts and SRS concepts. Political persecution exists. He's going into continuum. Just to remind you, you arrested a man for alleged crime, so that after a few months, unconstitutionally, with a bag on his head, you could deliver him to The Hague. The protagonists of this persecution went to an island, which was Cyprus, looking for accounts and finding their cousin. In the meantime, your exotic islands have also been used to launder large amounts of money. Not to spread this subject, what the National Assembly is about to decide is to adopt this resolution. Why? The resolution in part implies that the Republic of Serbia must no longer be a passive observer of what is happening in The Hague. It must concentrate its efforts and enable all of our people in The Hague, and one of them is Slobodan Milosevic, who came into a search phase, this process of his; there are quite a few who are in a pre-trial phase and are awaiting the start of the trial, this country must make all the funds available to our citizens. To remind you, these are all citizens who won the elections in the Republic of Serbia, in the multiparty elections in which the DS participated, and only participation in the elections is proof that a multiparty system is recognised, although I doubt that you are compatible with a multiparty system according to the rhetoric you use. A time of political hatred is the past. No one else will be with you when you hear those arrows you're sending from these and other speakers. It's all about repetitive hate. The sooner you get out of hate, the better you get back to something called normal politics, which is the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Political persecution exists. How's DS? Here's an example. In 1999, someone attacked the DS premises in Kronska. The SRS in power stood in defence of the DS. The DS came to power at the end of 2000. The first thing they did was to get the SRS out of the magistrate's building, where 30 years before the lease was paid. It's DS. This is not a party of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is a party representing foreign interests in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. That's why DS is not in the DS, but in the media, NGOs, where mental manipulation is being met, citizens are going crazy. That's our truth. No one asks this group of people from the Democratic Party in the Assembly. There's someone else who decides. The media that correct their statements, which channel, are the three media organisations, those former idols, properly deployed to create the political and other social sides of the Republic of Serbia. Get back, get away from it. Go back to normal political flows, accept a multiparty system, be similar to political competition, be an alternative to attitude and programme, not hate they sow at every turn. That hate will get back at you, remember what I told you. Political persecution exists because several years of deliberate court proceedings do not end, and it seems very cynical when someone says, if a person is charged with being charged, let him report, let him argue, the state will give him protection. What state would give him protection? Let me list the radicals that have been waiting four years for the trial to begin on your criminal charges that you filed? No investigative judge is going to confirm that he's going to agree to file charges. All false accusations, but hold, the goal is to present to you all protagonists of Serbian national policies that they are common criminals. It will not work for you while the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the next elections, which you will go through even worse than you have in the previous elections. You could have put any name instead of Slobodan Milosevic. It is very important that it is the name chosen by some who represent the Democratic Party, such as Bozidar Djelic, such as Mladjan Dinkic, such as those of the strong members of the Extraprofit Commission. Remember, you've passed the Lustration Act. What did you do with that law? Under that law, first of all, you guys need to scale up. You're blocking our initiative to put this law out of force. What's one resolution? It is an act of the National Assembly expressing the political will to end political persecution and to provide assistance not only to Milosevic but to all our people in The Hague. Why? To prove it. What do they have to prove? That Serbia and Serbs are not war criminals. The fact that you're enraged with hate causes another flaw. If these people do not defend themselves in quality, then the state prevents them, our generations will be guilty. It's not about the name and name of each of these individuals in The Hague. It's about the state and the people. From whom will Serbia's citizens, if God doesn't come to be convicted of genocide, war crimes, compensate for damages? From the citizens of Serbia? From the rich? Rest assured, if that happens, then these rich men will have to turn to the Democratic Party for what she's gotten them into. I warn all those who rejoiced on June 28th 2001 in that restaurant, the closest associates of Slobodan Milosevic who were looking forward to being delivered to The Hague, the Democratic Party thinks of them as those who should pay the damages. Keep an eye on who you're funding. Take care, the Democratic Party has shown and daily shows that it is not similar to a multi-party system, because there is still great hatred in their ranks, which does not allow them to see what all citizens of the Republic of Serbia see. If you don't understand, look at the direct transmission of the trial, and you'll see how wrong you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12966	National MP Dusan Petrovic, head of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12967	Mr. Chairman, I can see that this debate has turned into a debate about the Democratic Party, but it's not surprising to me. You, Mr. Krasic, are obviously fascinated by the Democratic Party and you have no other political issues in what you do. You're right, Mr. Krasic, while the Democratic Party will never come to power. I'm not surprised, Mr. Krasic, because I'm sure it must've worked very impressively for you yesterday, which brought 10,000 people together at the Pioneer. You had something to see. If, Mr. Krasic, you invest enough energy and effort, maybe for a decade you come to that level too. Mr Krasic, it's not a question of hate, nor anyone from the Democratic Party hates anyone, nor politics on hate can be based, nor have we done it. The question of common sense is, Mr Krasic, that the Democratic Party is fighting the values that have ruined Serbia in the 1990s. It's the Democratic Party's goal and we'll succeed. We will succeed because 70% of people in Serbia want to go to the European Union, Mr Krasic. We'll make it because 70% of people want to live well. We will succeed because the Democratic Party is ready to represent these people who want to live normally in the 21st century in the middle of Europe. What I understood you were saying should be translated into some resolution about the ban on the Democratic Party. He can't do that, Mr. Krassic, because history can't be stopped. You are representatives of the past of Serbia, the Democratic Party is the present and future of Serbia, Mr Krasic. Mr. Chairman, I don't think he's entitled to a replica after I gave the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12968	Here you go, Mr. Crassy. On behalf of the Democratic Party, you replied to Mr Krasic, but you mentioned him ten times by name, and that is why he has the right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12969	Mr. Mikhailovich, my predecessor mentioned my name 16 times and I quite understand that, since I am in charge of liquidating you as a liquidator, you know that. Liquidation is painful, we all know that. What's left of the property is that it's sold out and it's real proof that there's no going back; there's no going back, we just have to go ahead. Around that European path; you know, there is no greater insult to the European Union than when the Democratic Party for all it imagines that something is hitting it as a prefix of the word European. So we heard from the Europeans the other day that there was no more Russia. An MP came out and said there was no Russia. We say there is. He says there's no Russia. So you said there was no China, so you ran off to China with your president to finish something. There's no Libya. The first one gave money when you got here. You've totally lost the compass, confused the foreign world. You are indeed a danger to the mental health of the Republic of Serbia. Your attempts at mental manipulation are at the level of the most ridiculous Olympics. We're thrilled to see you. No one in Serbia, be sure, is considering banning the Democratic Party. We have to keep you as a little bit of water on your palm. While we have the opportunity to take 150, and 200 MPs to the election. When they see what is an alternative to you, everyone will pass, and Bogoljub Karic may pass because of you. Maybe the Wildlings will pass. He's fighting corruption, and that's all against you. There's no one else. I just don't understand how you didn't recognize that in all these remarks that have been heard for the last 4, 5, 6 years, everything has been directed against the Democratic Party. There's no turning back, no position of the Democratic Party. You can see for yourself that no one wants to go with you anymore. I don't use the words primitiveism, etc. As long as you use those words towards us, we're fine because we impose ourselves as the only alternative to this hopelessness, that path where swan stories are told. Where are those 6.5 billion waiting at the border, where is that reception, where are the benefits. There isn't. As long as it's DS and all that talk, there's nothing to it. You said when President Tadic wins, the trials will be in Serbia. There isn't. They're gone, people, they're gone. Whatever you say, it's a negative. Never will a Serbian citizen make a mistake when you put no in front of what you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12970	Mr. Krassic, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12971	He can only be sure it won't be like you say. As for political life, don't worry, don't worry, we'll keep you as a little bit of water on your palm. We have to have a rare specimen, that the citizens are comparing us to something that's bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12972	Mr. Petrovic, I assume you're referring to Article 97 and Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12973	Mr. Krasic, I spoke of banning DS as a rhetorical figure or rhetorical question. I'm sorry you took that literally, so I apologize. Of course, I know, and all of Serbia knows that it is impossible for DS to be banned and that, of course, is not the subject. Just so we're clear and you're not mistaken. I'm sorry you're sitting in parliament without having any idea of the facts. Two things are important here that you were talking about, which, of course, are not true. The DS will take Serbia to the European Union. The DS, as well as the President of the Republic, have a clear awareness that Serbia's national interest is extraordinary relations with Russia and extraordinary relations with China. Serbia's president represented Serbia's best interests in meeting with the president of China, who was a few days ago. China, as a permanent member of the Security Council, has given support to Serbia and the President of the Republic is what its constitutional authority has done, has fought for that interest. Mr. Krasic, the other thing is you don't know exactly how to vote in the Security Council. That's what you showed here a few weeks ago, because you don't rule the technique. In the meantime, you may have read an International Public Law textbook and been informed of it. It's important to have enough will and to deal with the topics that are part of your job, and talent is 5%, and work is 95%. I advise you to study what you're talking about here. The other important thing is, of course, who he votes for. Last year, the DS made it clear who has greater support for Serbian citizens. We received the most votes in the local elections and if it were the 2000 law, we would have more authorities in the local environments in Serbia than in 2000, when we had more authorities than anyone else. Also, some appear here, the president of the DS has become president of Serbia and won the presidential election. Of course, it's in Serbia's best interest. There will probably be parliamentary elections this year. Of course, the DS will get the most votes and Serbia will get a government that will be able to quickly lead it towards Europe. That's two important questions. This remains all the issues of the misunderstanding that you have shown and, simply, I do not want to speak and spend the valuable time of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12974	Mr Krasic, the replica, and Mr Nikolic on behalf of the promoter. Mr. Krasic, please don't cause replication and respectfully treat your conversators. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12975	With great respect, I treat every MP, why would the predecessor be an exception? There's no need to be an exception. There are mixed topics here. The theme is how to help our people, how to avoid this hatred in political life, which darkens both vision and reason, etc. It should not be reproduced, for we are aware that some MPs and their own personal failures justify the fact that someone once was in power. When it's a little out of the way, it's obvious that their contemporaries were in power. It's ugly here now to say that the DS MP didn't say no to Russia. It's ugly to talk about how in 2000 radicals, while participating in power, were, if I may say so, even embarrassed by the work of the opposition at the time, like, friends you found in China and Russia. Now, the dots don't work, they've changed. It's very difficult when someone throws democratic standards out of our sleeves, and it's quite clear that democracy has understood that they can vote and that they can give the quorum from Bodrum. It is quite clear who Kolesar, Janjusevic, is quite clear how the saber failed, in which one mafia was intended to replace itself with another mafia. This conversion is very dangerous, because it puts something under the carpet which is a major problem, not only for the development of democracy, but for the establishment of this people, it constantly reproduces something that was 10-15, 20 or who knows how many years ago. That's the policy. Remember the resolution, so tell me why it shouldn't be adopted, what's wrong with that text of resolution. Don't turn 1993, etc., it was your fault in 1993, and in 2003, and you didn't answer the citizens where 6.5 billion people voted for you, did you steal them or didn't come, or was it just a simple lie? Where is this great democracy, where it's an independent judiciary. The DS came to power and immediately began political persecution. You have destroyed all institutions for three years of your authority's failure. You've destroyed all the institutions. We don't have any institutions. Which institution to catch up with, take the Broadcasting Council, I don't know where to go, and wherever we touch the ambis, it shows up. Why ambis? Made a mess of DS, DOS, DS, whatever. Made a wreck and destroyed the state structure. Here the swan songs about Europe, Europe, as if someone were to lead us to the North Pole, so they found an alternative in Europe. That's what this is about. You take care, you appreciate citizens, they're intelligent, they understand these things, and what's going on in Serbia, they feel on their skin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12976	The word is given by MP Tomislav Nikolic on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12977	As a proposing representative, I'm not satisfied that this is only going one way. But the reason for that is because the representatives of the authorities escaped from the O.R. and it works that way. It wouldn't work the way we have to justify that other part of the resolution, which is that the persecution is continued, there's still no one to talk to, empty chairs. I suggest that the DS parliamentary group go to collective encouragement therapy. I know you need courage. There are experts who can pour it on you, but it's not a congregation pay phone. I know you're very uncomfortable, uncomfortable, you've said something that makes me willing to bet with you in public. You said we'd only be in power if there wasn't an DS. Let's bet. If we're in power after the next election, you shut yourself down. Come on, since you're so strong. And let me ask you something, since we're going to have more votes than you and if you have more than us, you're hardly 50% that you can have on your own, so tell me who you're going to be in the coalition with. You want to go with those who killed you and that you're with them in a difficult dispute. You will be with those behind them, who stole and robbed the whole state. With those you can't, they're already with Karic. You can't fight those in front of them. They were fighting on the board yesterday. With socialists, there's no chance, they can go with a lot of people, but with you, I can't. Come on, how, unless you make a new October 5th, how do you come to power from the DS, and how can 22 MPs be in power? What do you mean you won the presidential election? I was an athlete, we ran in the trails, and who goes through the goal first is the winner. I went through that goal first. You guys came together later, and I was wearing someone else on my back, and Tadic had two or three of them on their backs, and we were racing again. So Tomislav Nikolic according to Tadic 32:29, so-called The democratic block, the Hague lobby, as many of you as there are, how many parties you will tell me, which according to Tomislav Nikolic 52:48; so do you really think you won. No, you're not. And if he's already traveling to Boris Tadic, let him pick the embassy again, because some real Democratic Party president will re-emerge him from the Democratic Party. Look, ever since Boris Tadic is your president, you already have three factions. You say there were 10,000 people, there was 20,000. And how many factions were you in? How many fractions were there thousands? Imagine the gathering of a political party at which they whistle to the party's president while giving a speech. Is it in the world? It doesn't exist. And, don't be in the assembly, but go from committee to board, from village to village, try to raise that party somehow. Your party's on the air. I ask the MPs of the SRS not to pay attention to the desire of the DS to participate in this debate. The Democratic Party was mentioned by this resolution as a party that held Serbia without a Constitutional Court for a year and a half, as a party that left a million people out of work to privatise, as a party owned by a family of political rivals and rivals were not sure: either they were in jail or they were losing their heads. Because you know very well - a standoff in the case of Gavrilovic is expected these days. The Democratic Party is involved to the bone, to the very core, so don't go out too much for this pay phone and some of your people from the past to brag too much. You'll have to give them up because the facts are irrefutable. If you had arrested me in "Sabbe" action, I'd have told you about this phone booth how many bags in the halls on the street on November 29th. How short of a bag, how many hundreds of people you brought in and shoved bags on their heads. I would bring a witness here to whom you put leeches in a bag that you put on his head, and it was told - leeches are infected with AIDS, to take off your bag, but accuse Vojislav Seselj. It's a democratic government. This is the Democratic Party. Look at what the vice-president of the Republic Public Prosecutor looks like, he's been through a democratic procedure in custody, and the one where you praise him that he's the best lawyer in Serbia, and I've had to correct his mistakes on the Administrative Board. Fortunately, the budget's full, so I've almost fixed everything. Now they're asking for interest, and I'd say they should go to him and ask him for interest, because he opposed the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. And another thing that the Constitutional Court of Serbia must not discuss from the time of your authority -- over 60 laws you have passed with the use of 12 Serbian citizens in the Serbian Parliament, who were not MPs, who resigned and whose resignations were passed in the Assembly, and then Mr. Bosko Ristic said -- were in error when they resigned. They remain in office, they were deluded, thus accusing a professor of law school that he was in legal error, corrected by Bosko Ristic. And so don't mention to me, please, the time of your reign, and don't think about coming to power, because the wounds you gave to Serbian citizens are still fresh, they haven't healed. Look how what you say were the wounds we gave them healed. Mild people, melemi, good work, wound heals. And you're the one who's got the hang You're just creating a cucumber, you're digging it up again by mentioning some of your people. That's why I'm not worried about what's going to happen in Serbia after the next election. I'm just worried you might ruin something until the next election. We will enter Europe when Europe wants us, not when the Democratic Party is in power. Because if Europe wanted Serbia with the Democratic Party in power in Europe, it took three years, which doesn't get us in. Now that you're in opposition, run where you didn't want to go when you were in power. How come there's something in Libya for the president of Serbia? And while he was in opposition, he was disgusted. How did you get to China? Well, we were importing drugs from China that were five times cheaper, and you said -- they're no good, they're small doses, for small people, they want our people to die. That's why I'd like these escapees back, to turn the resolution to the part about reality and present. And what was in the past, the Serbian citizens estimated it a year and a half ago, now almost two, in the parliamentary elections. So other than attacking the SRS, do something else in politics, except attack on the SRS, do something useful in politics. Apart from the People's Office and stories, let's let the president of Serbia do something to Serbia. Let's just do something. Don't make it work for yourself. Don't let him lead rich people when he leaves on a plane. Don't. Because we know what presidents lead rich people. And we know how one of your former presidents used to say where to wait for him when he was on his way. Watch out. All that remains written down. So when I see your president surrounded by a bunch of rich people, I ask them what he's going to do when you really come to power. Because I saw how you must repay yourself when you come to power for those who brought you into power. You haven't cleared up with criminals in your ranks. You're not. Don't wait for the judicial authorities. You accused them from here yourself that the disputes would last indefinitely. The story is that you are waiting for the court to resolve who deceived Serbia in the Bodrum affair, and during that time people involved in the affair, one said today - I apologized for the counterfeit I made, clean and peaceful, and the other one is the vice president of the party and the Prime Minister is in Vojvodina. The organisation of organised crime by the DS in the Serbian Parliament is now the government's president in Vojvodina. What would he do with the Vojvodina budget if he could steal votes from the Serbian Parliament? So, since we're done with the Democratic Party, let me just suggest that I ask MPs of the ruling majority to show up in the O.R. because there are very important things here. This is about the persecution of those who defend themselves in The Hague. If you have been ruthless to them, I desire the attitude of those who are in power now, whether they too are ruthless to those who are in The Hague. There are several kinds of citizens sitting in The Hague. War criminals are sitting. There are war criminals in The Hague. I wish they were meant to be in Belgrade, to show that we want to condemn all war criminals. But there are innocent people sitting in The Hague. What's their fault - they were politicians, cops, generals and officers at the time we fought wars. Now that you want catharsis, I expect one of you to go out for this pay phone and say, "He's not a war criminal, though he's in The Hague, even though they accused him, even though they took him away." Until then, I don't believe in your good intentions. Don't brag about that grain of power in local self-government, because you can't justify it. You say, "If it was some other law, we'd have more." If it wasn't for the law, if you took the pole, you might have the most. The law that was, it's the law by which we chose the councilmen. Do you not like anything, if you have a majority, change the law, do not call for any laws, especially not the laws that you have voted for, and especially not the decision of the DS to change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because before that argument fall everyone else you take for your own benefit, as DS. You are the political party that decided in the Assembly to change the Constitution past the constitutional procedure. You weren't ashamed. You're a political party that deprived political competitors of their rights to life, just because one of you was denied that right while you were in opposition, or heard that someone was denied that right. You're revolutionaries. If we were to talk about the DS ban, you would be defended by the Socialist International. Before such a great force, I must say, I don't see who would hit you that way here in Serbia. You are defended by leftists from all over the world, and you have in your hands the entire Serbian capital. If you were to add a G17 plus, you still have half of the Balkan capital. Those two parties, and the rest of them just watch what you did and what they do. You've got people on stage yesterday who broke up while they were ministers in the DS government. Only after that did they enter the DS. You know that very well. It's hard for me when you MPs, who I know neither of you are rich, I'm talking about how there are thieves in your ranks, and you're defending these thieves from your ranks and you can't say they're thieves. You saw what the people said in December 2003. The government enters the elections and wins 22 parliamentary seats. If it was a 1990 law, would you have any seats? That's how we can talk. Yes, you have proved that you are now the only opposition, the only pro-European, the only one for The Hague. You proved that to all of Serbia. Stand clear of more attacks on the SRS. You're only challenging the MPs to tell you everything they want. Personally, I don't like this kind of power being dealt with by a handful of Democrats. I feel like defending you. I've always been on the weak side, but I can't forget that you were too strong for your value, you had a lot more power than you're worth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12978	Mr. Petrovic, then Mr. Ristic, the replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12979	It is obvious that the SRS has no other topic today than the DS, and it is obvious that you are not an essential opposition here, because besides the Government of the Republic of Serbia and so many parties in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and everything that makes political life in Serbia, you today, you have spent more than two hours elaborated your remarks on DS policy. You're absolutely right, Mr. Nikolic, because defending your ideas and your values, which have produced such a terrible result in the 1990s, is DS. Of course you can't come to power while DS is in Serbia. You're right, there's nothing you can do to keep DS out of Serbia. As for the election and your concerns about how the future government of the Republic of Serbia will be formed, Mr. Nikolic, you were in a position to run the presidential race and fight to become president of the Republic, and now you wonder how Boris Tadic won and what that means that the DS won the elections. That means he has the President of the Republic, that the President of the DS is the President of the Republic. As the DS won the presidential elections, it will also win the future parliamentary elections. I'm worried that you have all the facts from some investigation you mentioned here. As you say, there's some kind of trial going on, and you're like a defense attorney or a prosecutor. How do you come to court records and what kind of state it is, what kind of justice minister it is and what kind of police minister it is, when the head of one of the opposition factions or opposition parties has all the facts and threatens these facts. So, Mr. Nikolic, it would be good to inform the public what your connections are with Mr. Jocic and what your ties are with the Minister of Justice, when you have the opportunity to get so familiar with court cases in detail. As for healing the wounds, I cannot heal Serbia's wounds from the authorities in which you participated. It will take a few dozen years to correct not only material poverty, but to correct all the damage that has been done to the spirit and mentality of our nation and our citizens, but we will also succeed. And for two and a half years, while Zoran Djindjic was Prime Minister, the process of revitalising Serbia went very quickly. Of course, Zivkovic continued as long as he could, he had good intentions and he did a lot, but elections happened, so we're standing right now; in a short time, we'll continue very quickly. (President: Time. () In the end, it is very interesting, Mr Nikolic, that you, at least I have not heard, have not said anything in the past days about what has changed the will of this Parliament and what has quite different text of the Labour Act reached the President of the Republic. As far as I know, you call yourself an opposition here. How do you plead that you voted for one thing and a law that has one content was passed, and then a completely different law came out of this House? It would be good if you could explain that to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12980	National MP Bosko Ristic, a replica of Mr Nikolic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12981	I signed up for the replica of Mr Tomislav Nikolic's presentation. I want to say, in front of you and in front of the public, that here, obviously, the resolution against DS is on the agenda, because the whole topic of today's debate is DS, its strength, its values, its programming orientation and its successes so far. Obviously, yesterday's impressive gathering, an impressive convention that we had here in Belgrade, with thousands, did not exactly count how many, but certainly close to tens of thousands of members, showed, in an impressive way, their consistency in political definitions, consistency in the fight for European values, for standards guaranteeing protection and human rights and all values of human life. As far as this resolution is concerned, which is on the agenda, we have a different political intention here -- that certain people by name and last name be placed above the Constitution and above the law. We call for responsibility. Calling for responsibility through the institutions of the system, through judicial authorities, is not a persecution. I have to remind you or inform you, since you are blaming the DS for everything that is not right in this country right now, corruption, a poor judicial system, a poor situation in the judiciary, blaming an opposition party for something that is wrong with the government. You blame the criminal privatisation of "Knjiz Miloša", for falsifying the will of MPs through the forged text of the Labour Act, which will be on the agenda. These affairs so cover all the affairs in Serbia so far, I just wonder how far the government will have political credibility in the public that it cheats on this people further. There will be a subject of the Labour Act, this topic will be opened before the Legislative Committee. Otherwise, if there were respect for the Rules of Procedure, this resolution you have offered here would not have been on the agenda. The President was obliged to deliver the text of the resolution to the Legislative Committee and to determine whether it was legally possible. Legally impossible is a resolution that insists with state authorities that judicial proceedings be stopped. You're talking about delaying proceedings. Well, it was the obstruction of those who were accused before the court that led to the delay of the proceedings, because they hoped that they would be suspended due to their obsolescence. The SPS itself helped Mira Markovic make a decision to flee to Russia. She was removed from the list of MPs and opposed to Milosevic's insistence. You know that Mira Markovic left the country at the time of the biggest threat to late Prime Minister Djindjic and attempted assassination. That's when she left. She didn't leave after the murder, she left before the murder, because it announced what was going to happen to Prime Minister Djindjic. But also, I remind you and the SPS members that the SPS has just refused to put Mira Markovic on the list of MPs. In this parliamentary group, there was no will among the SPS members to support it, because they believe it was an evil force that destroyed the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12982	The Messenger of the people Tomislav Nikolic, and the Messenger of the people, Vucelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12983	Here's to finding out for myself what I didn't know, which is that someone is bringing in Mira Markovic and the assassination of Zoran Djindjic. I really didn't find it in the court files, except in DS claims. But let me explain to Mr Petrovic, and also to ask the President of the National Assembly, what this is doing in the National Assembly and what the National Assembly has become, Mr Markovic. Why don't you stop skiing right now and take a chance on the blizzard of this blizzard and take a chance on your leg or something, but come and sort things out in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. On Friday, I learned from one of the ruling majority MPs, Mr Markovic, because I have not yet seen the official letter from Boris Tadic, that Boris Tadic has returned the Labour Act. If he had returned it Thursday at 23.20 from the cabinet, and he was in China, but he probably left his signature now, so use whatever you want. There Boris Tadic stated that he was not given a text in the form in which he was adopted at the National Assembly session, which is a very serious accusation, Mr Markovic, and must result in the disappearance of one of you's policies: Predragje Markovic or Boris Tadic Easy, let's get this straight. [[Dropping out of the O.R.: Both of you.]] It's easy to comment, but this is a very serious situation. The President of the National Assembly must not deceive the President of the State. He must send the law to him in the text in which he was adopted. The president of Serbia must not deceive the public. If a draft law has been sent to him in the text in which it was adopted, he must not say that it has not been delivered to him in that form. When it comes to the questions of journalists when we're going to be in session, then after the first letter I saw, I told Tadic that the Assembly had nothing to do with it. Tadic is looking for the right text. The contents have not been reported. Afterwards, I find out, and again there are no documents that would arrive even to me as head of the parliamentary group, that Boris Tadic has also disputed the law he has received. Did you correct the text, so you sent him the right law, but if he refused to do it, that's what one of his blondes, as I don't know, signed it and because it doesn't comply with the Constitution. That's what I find out from the papers, as I learn a lot about these affairs from newspapers, but you don't read the papers. There is a lot of evidence there for the charges against all of you, and especially, Mr. Markovic, for you against setting up lots for the selection of Radiodiffuse Council. And all in a week, so I don't justify if President Markovic, or his service, seems to have already gone skiing, sent a forged text of the bill to Boris Tadic. Here, we are currently working on making myself a sheet, to see the bill, what we adopted and what went to Boris Tadic. If that's true, Mr. Markovic, we first propose that you be removed from the seat of the National Assembly. That's one step. If Boris Tadic turns out to have received the bill as it should look after agreeing on the Legislative Committee, then Boris Tadic has deceived the public, then he must suffer the consequences. The third is - if he returns the labour law, although his MPs voted for all amendments that were adopted, then I am interested in what is wrong with his MPs or what is wrong with him. But I will never justify any falsification, no fraud, no act of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. A team before the names of two SRS MPs who had not inserted their cards appear in one quorum in 15.55 minutes and 50 seconds, which was exactly 126 MPs. As for who the opposition is or who is not the opposition, we voted once, I think it was a unanimous decision, on the law on the direct election of MPs in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, and once we adopted the resolution on Kosovo and Metohija unanimously, and in no other case did the SRS MPs vote for any law. If the measure is the opposition's number of laws someone voted for, then you are in power, Mr. Petrovic. For half of the laws passed in this assembly your parliamentary group voted. Why, then, can you transfer someone from not being an opposition by sitting in the National Assembly? Put it on the scale or ask your service to calculate how many laws have been passed, how many of these laws have you voted for. You'll see that you may have voted for more laws than socialists. That's it. So, the opposition is the one who fights the government, but does not fight Serbia. In you, I still recognize the old original desire for Serbia to fall too, so that you can come to power. That's why I asked the MPs of the SRS not to pay attention to you, because when a fire is slowly extinguished, no gas or any heat should be added to it. Let the DS get angry over their pasts and conflicts, shut it down on its own.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12984	Mr. Petrovic, first Mr. Vucelic answered the line, then me, then you. I was called by name and last name, and it's my turn to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12985	This resolution requires no one to do anything directly. She doesn't tell that judge and that judge in the process. It would have been someone who had to know. It prohibits anyone in Serbia from discrimination and political persecution based on family membership. It was established on the Constitution, it does not produce directly a legal fact, in the sense that this and that court do so and that, and it also pleads that whoever does so is responsible and violates the Constitution, human rights, etc. It is also necessary because a special understanding of "law" is seen in the DS performance, which is -- you support the government, agree with the minister to order the prosecutor, and the prosecutor and the minister to order the judge to finish it. That's what you did, and that's why you damaged the judiciary and the justice system, so that it can't be easily recovered under legal rule. These are your traces of force, your topless, which cannot be removed. We've pointed out a number of examples of what you've done. Now you're nervous and you represent European Serbia. You are nervous that Serbia, and this government supported by the Socialists, is on the verge of signing an EU feasibility document. You were an opposition to the extradition of The Hague through voluntary surrender. You asked for a bag on your head, an arrest. You were in opposition to the constitutional change of the constitution, as only possible, continuing your understanding of justice, which is purely volunteering. You fake yourselves as Democrats, revolutionaries, and you're neither, but a pig and a volunteer, occasionally surrounded by one or the other cloak. You voted against the budget and against the arrangement with the IMF, which is what you consider Europe the most. You have a misrepresenting view of the Constitutional Charter and of the state community, pragate, and that is also what Europe has guaranteed, not to say that this is the historical interest of this people. You have a banishing relationship with Republika Srpska, and the only thing you do well, is take the roads that we have traveled, to China, to Libya, to Russia, however, there you were not received by the president of Russia, to Greece, all those countries that made you laugh at the power of the SPS and Slobodan Milosevic, who were our friends... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... at those times when it wasn't easy to have a friend. That's what this is about. In this nervousness, you are now displaying yourself as some kind of European Serbia, based on the "Sablje", violation of the Constitution, taking a mandate, thus declaring that Serbia, with the help of the Socialists, will be in Europe, will draw closer to Europe, given all the steps you have taken with your authority and your terror. (President): Please, time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12986	Before me, Mr. Angelkovic reported to me in his office, and then the replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12987	They need to make things perfectly clear. Mr. Bosko Ristic spoke false information. Who will be an MP in the state community or in the federal parliament is a matter of the SPS, not Boška Ristic. However, who will be an MP in the republic's parliament, it was Boška Ristic's business. He decided who would be an MP in the republican parliament and only him. However, his legal arguments about who would be an MP were that he was a citizen, for example. Mihajlo Markovic sent a letter to the Serbian Parliament and informed that he has some objections who can and who cannot be an MP. It is legal and democratic, according to Bosca Ristic. Who determined who would be the Federal Messenger and whom would the BOLO be extradited against? He mentioned Mira Markovic here. You ordered, as DS, to steal the passport Miri Markovic, to enter the apartment of the government of Kršljanina and to steal the passport Miri Markovic. The inspector told me how you ordered it. He also told me how you ordered the arrest of Uroš Šuvaković and Bogoljub Bijelica just because they were working to defend Slobodan Milosevic. That, Mr. Bosko Ristic, was your democracy. You also voted from Bodrum. Don't ask me to be your witness, but the fact is that Ceda Jovanovic pressured the SPS to vote for the law, i.e. for the election of governors, despite the fact that you didn't have enough private MPs Banet Ivkovic and his camels, you asked SPS MPs, you knew you didn't have a majority, you didn't have 126. When I told you it was out of the question, that you could only tie us up and put us down, there was Mr. Goran Vesic, without him there was nothing that could do that, because both Chad and Goran, it was not possible, then you came down and voted. At that moment, you knew you had no more than 116 MPs. The moment you spoke, two minutes before that, you knew you didn't have any MPs. It's your legal system, Mr. Ristic, so you led the Administrative Board, so you banished people, so you banned Mira from coming because you banned her from going to The Hague by stealing her passport without any legal basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12988	Please, I'm warning you. Here you go, Mr. Petrovich. Replication to Mr Nikolic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12989	What Mr. Angelkovic said doesn't deserve any comment. You can report any misdemeanor, Mr. Angelkovic, to whoever in this state is in charge of it, and as far as I know, you are now in power with Kostunica, so you would be able to exorcise that thing to a purgatory, not to use the valuable time of this assembly to complain. I've never heard anyone who's in power complains about a congregation pay phone because the state isn't working. That's what you, Mr. Angelkovic, have today introduced a new practice into Serbian parliamentaryism. As for the laws voted for by the DS, those are laws prepared by the government of Zoran Djindjic, Zoran Zivkovic, and it is completely out of political mind that DS votes against the Law on Railways and against the Law on Postal Services. We will continue to vote for those laws that are in the spirit of European Serbia that adapt Serbia's political and legal life to what exists in the EU. There are other things. You know, Mr. Nikolic, your MPs have made it possible to form a securities commission. You, as the SRS, gave the quorum to form this important body, which later participated in one, in the biggest affair in 2004 that hit Serbia, in the "Knjiza Miloša" affair. On the other hand, Mr Nikolic, your MP voted here for the government's reconstruction, and that is also a fact and a fact, and will remain in history as the opposition party voted to change the government and thus supported the government of the Republic of Serbia. That's the facts. We can comment on the facts one way or another, but the facts have to be respected. As for Mr Vucelic, you have such reluctance towards the EU that you don't even want to dent in terms. Serbia does not sign anything, but the EU should, or the EU Commission, give a positive assessment of the feasibility study or keep quiet, say nothing, then there is no such feasibility study. As far as the legal aspect is concerned, I am a lawyer by profession, and I have no other way of interpreting this provision of resolution, which it says, it requires the competent state authorities to do something or not to do something. This congregation can't order anything, this congregation can pass the law, this congregation can get rid of judges, prosecutors, and there are adequate procedures for that. As for the mockery, we, Mr. Vucelic, have never mocked your authority, we have hated it and we have managed to bring it down, and it is in Serbia's interest, and it has opened the door for this nation to join the family of modern European peoples.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12990	Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12991	First of all, I thank you for your questions. Yeah, the fact is, and the public knows that, I've been skiing, and the fact is, some have tried to sow the Parliament in the meantime, and we're not going to let that happen anyway. I realize there are misunderstandings. Mr. Nikolic, I'm surprised that you're judging from incomplete news reports, because it's a correspondence between the president's office, who was on vacation, and that's why the transcript doesn't sign because it would be a forger, when someone who's not present is signing something, but fortunately there are competent services. As you know, they're offices, and when someone tries to falsify some document by using a signature that's probably left behind, those are things that happen to companies, then the department refuses to seduce it. If you compare the letters exchanged between the Presidency and the Assembly, about what has been presented very unseriously by some press service, press services should not rule this country, but institutions, then you could easily conclude if someone has forged something. It is my duty to inform the Assembly in a manner prescribed by law and I have done so. A letter from the president of Serbia, which arrived at the address of the president of the assembly, which speaks of the position that the president, for certain reasons, not constitutional but some others, will not sign the law, has been divided today by all MPs and is I presumed to be in MPs' clubs. That's how the deputy secretary, Mr. Jovanovic, informed me. If not, it will be divided now. Of course, there is nothing to say about this because a detailed letter from the President of the Assembly, with explanations of technical service and legal instruction from the President of the Republic, was sent on Thursday morning and it is correct that the president did so. As you know, there is no possibility that legal services should be declared on the law of any other institution other than the Proposer and the Assembly. In contrast, the law returns or does not return. In any case, it is quite clear and the confusion is probably due to the fact that the President of the Assembly has been absent, the President of the Republic has been absent, and someone has given himself the right to make different statements, sends statements, which is extremely inappropriate, because there is no problem in communication between the president of the Assembly and the president of the state. Secondly, it is my great pleasure that you accepted the position I insisted on long ago, and I will be glad that everyone accepts it, which is that it can be an opposition to the government, there can be no opposition to the state. I hope that is the attitude that will slowly prevail with most MPs and parties in Serbia. That's why I'll always insist that everything is done by law, but in the context of where there's a possibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12992	Time, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12993	Thank you. This is a real example. Let me finish my sentence. Two cases are mentioned today where the President of the Assembly is powerless because he has no possibility of acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The first case is, when the government was reconstructed, there was one forgotten card left here by an MP. The president of the assembly didn't see it, so he couldn't react, but the video clearly shows that she was left behind and standing. The president of the assembly couldn't do anything about it. Of course, news stories can now be that someone voted for someone or didn't. The second situation is when the president of the assembly sees that someone's card is left and, as you know, that's when I reacted. The first time I saw myself react, I asked the professional service to pull that card out, bring it in, and I gave that MP a warning. As you know, this is Ambassador Wednesday's Michael. So I'm not making any political difference in that case at all. The same case now, for which you have asked the question and the professional service has sent the answer, is that it is possible that the other two cards are from your party, but I haven't seen it. What's more important for the public and for all of you is that it didn't affect in any way, because it voted for that law somewhere around 148, two minutes ago and two minutes later, and that's crucial. I can't punish MPs who forget their card if I don't see it, but what was important to you was the answer, which is that no temporary cards have been issued, because that was the essence of the question. I think it is important for all of us to act exactly according to the law, to respect and build institutions and, if at all possible, to have opposing opinions, but we have no reason to argue, and in particular we have no reason to try to bring down institutions, and above all, the most important institution in this country, which is the Serbian Parliament. Thank you for your time as chairman, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12994	I thank Mr. Markovic. He used two replicas since it was six minutes. Now I have a replica of Mr Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12995	The next replica is Mr. Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12996	Mr. Petrovic, I was just about to complain to someone. I'm just letting the public know what you've been doing and that's the difference. The difference is that our goal was to end it and that is why we supported the government of Vojislav Kostunica. We would be dissatisfied and we would take the support of Vojislav Kostunica if he did what you did, which is to order the police and the judiciary what to do. This should not be done by any government, nor by the existing government, because it would not have the support of the Socialist Party of Serbia. The court and the police must do what is in their jurisdiction, not wait for orders from Chad or Goran or any other political party in power, just what you did. If you'd done that, there's no dilemma. It's true, it wasn't a press service back then because it's your habit, press service or the communications bureau. Then you had the Communications Bureau, he decided and they decided which of those 12,000 people would be arrested. It wasn't the police's decision, it wasn't the judiciary. Of course everything will come to the surface and of course all court proceedings will be completed. We stand up for it, we just don't ask for it, and we don't think that's what the government needs to ask for and that the government ends these trials, but the court has to. These things will certainly come publicly before the judicial authorities, and then we will see who is responsible for the kidnapping of Slobodan Milosevic and what you as the Democratic Party played an anti-zaconic role in this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12997	The violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Gordana Komic, and then MP Bosko Ristic, a replica to Mr Angelkovic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12998	Ladies and gentlemen, if Vice President Zoran Angelkovic hadn't given himself his word, I would have been able to get the right to breach the Rules of Procedure immediately after the President of the Assembly, but fine. So, Article 28 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which reads: "The President of the National Assembly: He does the work provided for in the Constitution, chairs the meetings of the National Assembly, takes care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, takes care of the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies of the National Assembly and does other tasks provided for in the law and this Rules of Procedure." If the absence on vacation, on which the president has the right like any employee in this country, produced what the president of the National Assembly is trying to say in front of this assembly, the confusion over the text of the Labour Act, which the Assembly voted on, then either the president of the Serbian Parliament is also uninformed or has broken the Rules of Procedure. There's no third. Any kind of comment on why the Democratic Party's parliamentary group voted in favour of amendments, any, or voted abstentionally on the Labour Act in principle and in whole is an attempt to prosecute the opposition. A short while ago from the people who are the opposition – although here in the Assembly seems to be all opposition, only the Democratic Party is in power, it seems, and we should be responsible for everything, but okay – called by one parliamentary group because of its Constitution...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u12999	Excuse me, what's the breach of the Rules of Procedure? I didn't mention any MPs' group in the passed law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13000	This is extra, it's not an injury, he's right about that, but it's not nice.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13001	I apologize for your beauty, but tell me what is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, because it is my duty to interrupt you when you do not speak of the subject you have announced. Here you go, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13002	It's not nice again, but he didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure, only the chairman has the right to interrupt the speaker and no one else, and he's doing it for a notice. The breach of the Rules of Procedure could be interpreted in the intervention of the President of the Assembly, because I have the right to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure that I have quoted. So, basically, it is a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but since we're people and we understand what it's like to try to explain inexplicably, what the President of the Parliament tried to do, then I'll treat it just not nice, not that it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I demand that the Assembly in voting day, if it is on this item of the agenda, and I still hope that the Proposer will withdraw the resolution and that we will not vote on this resolution, put as part of the agenda of Article 28. Rules of Procedure by the President of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13003	I can only ask you, Mrs. Comic, to answer me if you stay on the same request and when I give you the clarification that I owe you. (Gordana Comić: Yes. ) So I did not explain in any other way what the president of the National Assembly was doing, but I answered, it was a replica to the proposer of today's agenda, Mr Nikolic, to the question he asked. So that's all it was. Otherwise, I remind you once again, I don't understand what you're talking about, because no competent institution, in any way, has talked about any different texts of the law, and it's really unserious. I was obliged to inform the National Assembly about this, for according to some newspaper headlines it turned out to be someone in charge of it. No, no one talked about it and thanks to the possibility of institutions that didn't do it. You're still staying after this explanation on request? Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Ristic, and I'm sorry to keep you waiting, but it's a replica of Mr. Angelkovic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13004	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr President, there has been quite an assessment here of the work of DS members, MPs and public officials at the time the DS took part in the Republic Government. However, it is not clear to me why these objections are heard and compared to the period when institutions in which DS do not have any influence. I don't get that at all. This mentions the impact on the judiciary, and above all, on the so-called. The persecution of the Milosevic family, the wife of Slobodan Milosevic, Mrs Mira Markovic, her children. As far as I know, Slobodan Milosevic's daughter is located in Montenegro, meaning in the territory of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, where the institutions of the legal assistance service function very well. So, it is available to these authorities, but it is obviously an obstruction in favour of the daughter of Slobodan Milosevic, who does not appear before the competent court and thus contributes to the lighting of the case under which the proceedings are being conducted. Mr. Angelkovic, you were talking about some passport theft, breaking into some people's apartment, for the first time I've heard of that man, I don't know who you were talking about, and in the context of that statement, you put my name and last name on it. I absolutely don't know where you saw any connection between my personality and such procedures. In any case, I will always insist that all those who have done damage to the citizens of Serbia, who have violated mass and organised human rights, who have ended the electoral will of citizens, who stole the elections in 1996-1997, all judges who were presidents of the election commissions, and none have ever been responsible for the election theft. For example, it was also in Nis, the head of the District Court, the district prosecutor, all members of the electoral commission, who reported to the authorities on criminal charges and announced to the competent court in Leskovec, where there was an outdated prosecution against them, because the alleged coalition "Together" in Nis did not have an address and could not as a subsidiary prosecutor take charge of the moment when the law on criminal proceedings ordered it. Isn't that an abuse? But who was doing it? In 1997, the DS did not frame judges in Serbia. The whole social foundation that was created from the political centers of power, and above all the communists, and after that of their successors, was clearly under the conductor's baton of a single centre of power. Sam Milosevic admitted, under pressure of evidence, electoral theft and brought a Lex specialis. A lot of judges came on the basis of recommendations from a political headquarters. Therefore, Mr. Angelkovic, you had a dominant political impact on Serbia's judiciary. (President: Time. Well, I hope you'll be as tolerant as Mr. Angelkovic was to you when you were...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13005	I'm sorry, the Rules of Procedure don't know analogy. I'm glad you insist that the Assembly be guided by Mr. Angelkovic, but I'm taking her through the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13006	You have broken the Rules of Procedure and when you have spoken to each other about the replica and you have exceeded the time; you have broken the Rules of Procedure, and when you have not delivered the Labour Act to the Legislative Committee for legal or technical order, if such text is directed to the President; you have violated the Rules of Procedure and when you have put this resolution on the agenda, and you have not allowed the Legislative Committee to declare whether it has been established and is legally possible; these are your infringements of the Rules of Procedure. Of course, when I get word in the order of application, I will point to this breach of the Rules of Procedure and ask for the Assembly to plead. Answer Serbian citizens why you did not send the text of this resolution to the Legislative Committee for a statement. Or the answer is that it is political calculations to support the majority in the Serbian government. A lot of people would say...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13007	Anyway, time's up and I thank you. Finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13008	I thank you, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13009	Soon you will be given the opportunity, the word of the people sent by Miroslav Martic, and then the People's Messenger Živorad Smiljanić, and then the People's Messenger Bosko Ristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13010	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, this resolution on political persecution of the Slobodan Milosevic family is not only unacceptable to the DS, but unacceptable to the entire democratic public of Serbia, because the simple political persecution of the Slobodan Milosevic family does not exist. Respecting the fact put forward by the promoter, Tomislav Nikolic, that purely human correct intentions were, and that no policy is behind this, I can't help but think that there is some kind of political interest behind this. I can't help but feel that Slobodan Milosevic had more confidence in the Radical Party than in his political comrades before yesterday. Instead of talking about the difficult economic and economic situation, the difficult social situation, the difficult political situation, we are wasting valuable time and money on taxpayers discussing now whether there is political persecution for the Milosevic family. Gentlemen, we can't close our eyes before the crime was committed and war crimes were committed, and war crimes were committed on one side and on the other and on the third side. Mr. Milosevic went to The Hague because he was suspected of taking part in all this. If not, I would like him to prove it, not because of him, I would prefer it because of the Serbian and Serbian people. For what Mr Milosevic, while in power, his regime, did for Serbia and the Serbian people in those 10 years of his rule, he should be responsible for it here. Don't tell me that the murder of Stambolic or Curuvia, or the Ibar highway, that it happened without the Milosevic family knowing, come on, I won't say a harsh word, that they were employers. After all, I guess it'll all be fixed sometime, but if they didn't know about it as leaders, it's in the sphere of, like, big fairy tales. After all, like everyone else, I know that neither Mira nor Marco are driven out of this country, but have gone away, not to use a harsh word - escaped from this country. So, who's stopping them from coming back anyway? Unless there is legal responsibility, unless Marco did anything illegal, unless Mrs. Milosevic did anything illegal, why don't they go back to the country. I don't see that there would then be some kind of atmosphere of their lynch or political persecution. After all, you remember what Seselj said about Mira Milosevic, what Mr. Vucelic was saying about Milosevic after October 5th. It was the other night on TV, so we all remembered each other. And I can't understand the kind of barbecue that now the representatives of the SRS defend the Milosevic family and demand that it not be politically persecuted. Let's be honest, so let's see, that you only tell me one example when Mira, when Milosevic, when someone from their family visited one of the wartime disabled or family of those who died in the wars that took place at the time of their rule. If we ask that all families be protected, which Mr Tomislav Nikolic spoke of in the opening statement, then I suppose that means families of wartime wartime peoples and families of those who have lost children in this last war. No one's family, just because they ruled for ten years, can be privileged. What's going on with Mr. Curuvia's families or Mr. Stambolic's? What are we supposed to do with families of wartime military invalids that this country doesn't care about at all? Are we thinking about what's going on with them? How do the children of those who died live? If we're talking about some political persecution, when I listen to Mr. Vukelic here, it's like I'm having a bad dream, like it's happening to me again, what happened a few years ago. Now I hear his story of democracy, of theft, of dishonesty. Well, Mr. Wolfellic, your party and you've been involved in all these years. If you're talking about persecuting families, we don't need to bring it down to the level of children, who haunts your children. In public, you did not say, or publicly on television, and you were publicly asked by Protic on one show, is it true that you are paying 100,000 Swiss francs annually for your daughter's education. You didn't want to say anything then. The silence was a confirmation of what he asked you. About schooling children abroad I, and probably many of my colleagues, can only dream, not to tell you that the basic conditions of life for many children in Serbia can only dream. I would ask Tomislav Nikolic, I'm glad he's here, respecting that he's V.D. President of the party, respecting that he was a presidential candidate, who lost but was a significant candidate in those presidential elections; do not rush me (repeated to Tomislav Nikolic), unfortunately I am not in a position to be so close to you that I rush you, and I listened to you here every day for at least two or three hours at a time. (Glasses - since when are you on? ) I must admit, here is Mr. Nikolic, you, to correct myself, by respecting all of this and that you are a good speaker, that this proposal meant exclusively human and human intentions, I must remind you that you have said something that has deeply surprised me as a man, which is that you are not sorry that Curuvija was killed. You just said one hard word to an MP who said something like that, that he wasn't sorry that Milanovic was beaten, you said he was a bastard... Okay, dog, what do you think, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, what should I tell you in a statement that you're not sorry that he killed Curuvija? Not getting into the ideological reasons why you said it, but I can't figure out that you have different principles then. If you're in favour of humanity and humanity, why don't you argue to establish the truth because of the Curuvia family, how it was and why it was killed. And as for the evidence you mentioned, everything that happened with the Stambolic family, with Curuvija, at the Ibarska Masteral, you also know that these evidence was systematically destroyed immediately after October 5th. You also know that Jovica Stanisic, as head of the State Security Service, destroyed or destroyed most of what could have been destroyed. And so, if you're talking about consistency, about humanity, I think you should stick to the same principles, regardless of ideological differences. That's why I think putting up with this resolution isn't exactly what you presented, human and human, but it has a political dimension, and the political dimension is, I suppose, that's what you get for yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13011	The replica was answered by Mr. Milorad Vucelic, and I would like to give you a notice. The Democratic Party has four minutes left and three speakers, and the SPS six minutes, and three speakers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13012	Dear MPs, first of all Slobodan Milosevic is not a political friend and comrade of the day before yesterday, he is the SPS president, elected at the Sixth Congress, and that remains. When you think of him as such a bad and dangerous personality, I wonder why you always untie him from the SPS and tie him to the Serbian Radical Party and vice versa. It is because it has great reputation and great weight, a great influence in the people by what it has done and what it has done. And what he did every day is more beautiful, and then it was good and honorable, thanks to those like you and your political party. What did you say? You've done the strictest selection among the families. You've just made arguments about one of your fascist relations with the families. Has it ever occurred to anyone in this assembly or in the public to blame the family of the Prime Minister or anyone else for Gavrilovic's death, for the suicide of Vlajko Stojiljkovic, for the death of Pavel Bulatovic; why you are constantly singled out; for the death of Žika Petrovic, for the death of Radovan Stojčić; why you are making permanent selection, permanent, selective terror towards families. At the same time, you're terrorizing my family. Ask me where I got my money and how you don't get my daughter, my sons, my grandchildren, etc. You should be ashamed of that. You're extending one fascist practice around this thing. I repeat, I am not obliged to account for anyone on a public show who weighs arguments from daughters and son, father, mother-in-law and sister-in-law. It's a shame always in the Serbian people. I don't want to be involved in embarrassing things, but I want to be responsible for what I did. I haven't had a single government salary in ten years, and I'm a private ten years. When it comes to Slobodan Milosevic and October 5th, Slobodan Milosevic replaced me twice in 1998. I'm sure if I had been in power in 2000, you'd never have come near the government. And those who have been replaced if they had stayed with the government, if they had stayed with Slobodan Milosevic, would never have had the opportunity to commit the evils to Serbia that you have committed. What I didn't agree with him, and I always knew it was a historical figure, I was willing and brave to tell him in his face when he was in power. And the fact that he lost power, that's why I criticized him, and I told him the reasons why I thought so, and that's what I was saying after October 5th, that's what I think today -- that he shouldn't have called the election, that he shouldn't have listened to counselors, etc. That's what makes the difference. We have always been broad in mercy. It is best known by Vuk Draskovic, who wrote a letter by Miri Markovic and who was granted by Slobodan Milosevic. You're saying we didn't take care of the fighters. It's a lie or ignorance. We have passed the Law on equalising the rights of fighters in those wars with the rights of freedom wars. That's true. It's a lot more than your fake marketing tours and assassinations doing dogs on the highways towards you. So every tear and every victim is heavy for us, and that Curuvija and Stambolic. Of course, I knew both of them, as well as these others who were dead. But we don't discriminate. You're doing selective terror and lynch towards the citizens. You distinguish the blood, you favor one another, and you blame the other without the judge and the judge, to God's sweet, sweet, anxious, and in fact, you judge without the judge and the judge. Who's been bothering you for five years, and out of that you've been in power for four years, in which the government has cleared 150 prosecutors. You're talking about legislation? You haven't applied the Constitutional Court's decision, you've relativated it, and now you're suddenly back in terror, you're detaching families, you're re-casting and lynching families. You've had, you've got a court, if there's a verdict, a conviction, then you have the right to seek justice. What you're doing, it's conducting terror. That's why Serbia told you no, and you'll never make it, no matter what we say, no matter who we cheat on, you'll never go through with that terror again. The time of this terror, the lawlessness, which is the largest in the last century in Serbia, that time has passed. It's neither the right nor the Constitution, nor any god-awful humanistic rhetoric that you're sweetening here, leading the selection between blood and implementing the worst batinian methods.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13013	Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13014	I'll be very brief, because once you've constructed a lie like this, you drag me through the media. You even led me to turn against me the brother of the late Curuvia. That's what you needed, because media attacks wouldn't have worked out if someone in the family didn't get involved. So, I told you about this pay phone that I don't regret Slavko Curuvija. I never said I didn't regret someone getting killed. Don't lie. If I said I didn't feel sorry for him, I also told myself that I had a right to feel sorry for and who I didn't, who deserved to feel sorry for, who didn't, but I never said I wasn't sorry for being killed. That's why you of the DS, whose headquarters are making preparations for the attacks on me, avoid lying. I stand behind every word I say and every word I say is published in a book called the SRS. I'll do it again. Ask me what I said about Mira Markovic. I'll tell you everything. What I said about Milosevic, I'll tell you everything and I'll stand behind it day and day. But don't lie. Slavka Curuvija's family is at risk. Your police tried to kill his brother on the highway to Galenika. He had an accident with a police car. His so-called. The wife is the director of some Serbian museum, and neither is the Serbian. Did you hear somewhere or read somewhere that I was against it? His family's in a legacy dispute. Did I get involved in that? I didn't. Don't just make it up and lie. You're looking for when I've done something wrong, you use it to fight me, against the SRS, anyone, but don't lie. The lie thing can't go away. It takes a thousand times to repeat what I think about murder. I'll say it a thousand times. I'm not ashamed. But the murders were not in my time, nor can you attribute them to me. I've attributed a lot of murders to your executives. She credited them with legal publicity, the one who now turned around and stood by them. Ask them what's the reason. I'd take that lawyer, Danilovic, to some court to say what evidence he had when he accused Zoran Djindjic of the Ibar Highway, and what evidence he now has when he accuses national security. And if he hadn't just changed his name on the evidence, or maybe he'd erased some of the evidence and left some of it behind. And Vuk Draskovic sinned for several months, accusing Vojislav Seselj of assassination at the Ibar Masteral, and then publicly apologized to him for seeing that it was pointless. For Mira Markovic, if any woman in this hall or any woman in Serbia had looked at a diary saying she had arranged the murder of the government president, do you think she would have stayed in the country? I stayed, even though you brought it to me. Do you remember the statement the first few nights? You asked for what I said a month ago, two, five, ten, just to find me somewhere. It's just that I had an inconclusive argument at the time, not one of those 11,000 I didn't know personally, maybe three or four, which you arrested after two months, but those first 40 and something that you accused directly of murder, at the last conference that your media wanted to pass on, I said, "Let's say which of them I know, and that's what Cedomir Jovanovic says, and that's what the holders of the Saba action say, let's say how many times I've seen myself with them, and I've never said that those who now go on television and accuse us. You didn't make it through that exam. Yeah, sometimes I make it and it jumps. And I was sorry about that. You know the one thing you've been quoting most about my jump, but how do I know who the gang is going to kill tomorrow, so I can't mention it. That's what you keep yourself alive if you want to accuse me. But if I said that I wasn't sorry that someone was killed, that I was even with these DS guys, it never was.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13015	We'll continue at 15.05 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13016	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once again a good day. We'll continue the afternoon session. Please begin to determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. According to official records, 105 MPs are present in the O.R. The word of the Messenger of the people is Zivorad Smiljanić, and let him prepare himself, and before that, I am sorry, I did not know. Replica, Mr. Martic, at the presentation of Mr. Nikolic and Mr. Vucelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13017	I'm sorry there's no Mr. Nikolic here, but maybe Krasic can answer, I'm not mad because my neighbor is here. So I did not exactly interpret exactly what Tomislav Nikolic said. So he's not sorry that Curuvius was killed, and he says he just said he didn't feel sorry for Curuvius. I'm interested in what the difference is, if you know someone that he was killed, so you say - I don't feel sorry for him or I don't feel sorry for him for being killed. It's the only thing I wanted to hear from Tomislav Nikolic, but maybe Krasic can explain the difference. As for the response to Mr. Vucelic and his terminology here, the appointment of members of a political party to fascists, which means also practical identification and voters, and the party with party members, says enough about him, I would never say that for members of a political party, not even for members of the SPS, or even for him. Otherwise, about the capture of Milosevic, it was just a matter of work for us to take him in. If it is adopted by someone, it is adopted by the Radical Party, the SRS, especially in this motion for a resolution, and takes it to protect and members of the Milosevic family. Otherwise, I did not identify the Milosevic family with other families, nor did I say that the entire Milosevic family had knowledge, but I said I doubted that Mira Milosevic and Slobodan Milosevic had no knowledge of the murder of Curuvija, the liquidation of Stambolic and the Ibar Masteral. So it was about the Milosevic couple. I didn't say, I can't say they were employers, but if they didn't have any knowledge of it, I just can't believe it. And if we're already talking about the violence that was going on, besides, Vucelic, you've been one of the leaders of the regime for ten years, who's been running tanks into the streets, stealing elections, which has led Serbia into war, which has led to its policy that Serbia has had several hundred thousand refugees. I just have to say one scene that I remember enough, and probably the others, the beatings that television recorded, the beatings of a young member of the Resistance, where he was chased by five cops and beat him in the street, all the while you were one of the leaders of that system, and I guess the police. In the end, as far as schooling children, I didn't ask you to explain it to me personally, or to account for me. Lay down with your voters, lay down with Serbia how you spend half a million Swiss school francs for your child.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13018	Replica? The replica on the replica can't. Maybe according to the Rules of Procedure. Call the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13019	I can call the Rules of Procedure and very simply, since there's been a mix-up here, I spoke as an authorised representative of the Parliament Club. First of all, it's not true, I told you to use fascist methods. You confirmed it. Fascist methods are used because you use the question of origin, family relations, and these are known methods that exist in that batin repertoire and which can be applied by it, especially that party that has such an understanding of justice to judge without a court, to forge facts etc. In 2001, in this parliament, at the time of your authority, the SPS parliamentary group asked for a survey committee to be set up and to establish the truth about the murder of Curuvia. That's what you refused. Don't call yourself indiscriminately for blood and tears now. Every victim is the same to us, unlike you. That's what you refused to do. You refused. You're talking about beating up students. The leader of that group then gave you the majority here in this House. That didn't bother you. These videos you're talking about, they were footage that provided you with leaders of those factions back then at the MP's club, to vote the laws you're voting on, to make quorums and to tear down and destroy the SPS. Of course, he knows well, and they know well who that applies to, and with him you brought down the SPS. Everything you've done, you've broken down every institution, everything you've reached into your hands, the judiciary, the prosecution, the Constitutional Court, Parliament had 300, 297, 308 MPs, it's not known what decision they belong to; 150 prosecutors have been elected by the government at their discretion. Such a coup against the rule of law has never been carried out by anyone on this earth, in the name of democracy, has never been carried out. I didn't say, and I'll never say that they're DS voters, nor that DS is fascist. The fact that you've reused telling lies, now that's 500,000 in your powerlessness, it's an honor to you. The other thing is that in your morale, if it's morale at all, you don't understand that children, fathers and other things are not spoken of. It doesn't touch you. Your moral integrity doesn't mean that if you can even talk about integrity. They're fascist methods, and they're dirty methods, and they're batinian methods, and they're methods that talk about your impotence, intellectual, political, and, in the least, moral indolence. The fact that no one warns you in the congregation that you're saying that, just talking about understanding, whatever the chairman is... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... The protection of the moral integrity of MPs, which is considered permitted here, to mention his ancestors and descendants, is considered normal. That's not my problem anymore, it's the problem of those who run this congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13020	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Živorad Smiljanić, has the word, and the Messenger of Bosko Ristić. Mr. Smiljanic, you only have six minutes left, as long as there are your MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13021	Dear MPs, all of us who have children of our own, love our children. Those who have grandchildren, they worship their grandchildren. Slobodan Milosevic worships his grandson, but unfortunately he does not visit him. Free Milosevic loves his wife, too. He loves her very much and we know it. Once on the board, I lost it, so I said - Free loves his wife very much, and in these relationships it's not worth meddling with. It is not common for Serbs to be in love with their wife for 60 years, but Slobodan is not an ordinary Serb, but is of exceptional value and quality, so he is unusual about it. So, for the defence of Slobodan Milosevic, it's very important that Mira Markovic comes to visit him because she inspires him, she inspires him, and he would probably have even better defence if he had that visit. In fact, since citizens listen to this, we need to know why an international warrant has been called for Mira Markovic. When an international APB is called, it's about murderers, criminals of the greatest form. Imagine why an international arrest warrant and indictment was issued against Mira Markovic. Mira Markovic persuaded the secretary of the then government, Knezevicka, to persuade Banet Ivkovic to assign the apartment to the housekeeper who worked with them. Practically, she talked him into it, it's funny to even say it, I know what Bane Ivkovic was half-tron, Mira didn't need anyone to talk him into it, and I'd resent her not having fought, what influence she had, for her maid to get her apartment. I was a health director for 30 years. Whenever I was able to give a poor girl a flat, I gave it. How many staff apartments have been divided in Belgrade, she has now received one housekeeper and that is a motive to call an international warrant for Mira Markovic, as she persuaded Knezevic to persuade Banet Ivkovic. If someone should answer here, then it was Bane Ivkovic, because he assigned the apartment, but since Bane Ivkovic, when the DSS came out of the DOS, supported the government of Djindjic and thanks to him survived almost three years, with five more eggs from the SPS, which they bought. Therefore, that is the essence of it. As for Mark Milosevic, against him, because he was supposed to be running with a saw, and then it turned out that this guy said he didn't exactly change his statement. There's a lawyer, Jojic, so let him say if it's true. That is why international warrants against the Slobodan Milosevic family have been launched. As for Slobodan Milosevic, do you know the date when Slobodan Milosevic was declared a war criminal – 24 May 1999. After two months of unfeeling bombing of Serbia, when Madeleine Albright realized Serbia would not kneel, he was declared a war criminal. Do you know that Slobodan Milosevic and Karadzic were in Dayton, then the war was over in Bosnia and Herzegovina, for almost two months they were there. Why didn't they arrest him if he was a war criminal? He's being tried for crimes in Bosnia. He was in Dayton. Then he wasn't a war criminal. Karadzic was promised by Americans, if he retreated from politics, he would not be pursued. They promised and lied to him, as they usually do. I mean, what's a practical Hague? We talk about The Hague all the time. The other day I listened when General Strugar was sentenced to eight years in prison, not because he bombed Dubrovnik, as a historic city, but because he did not prevent the bombing. What about Dubrovnik, in terms of history, according to Baghdad? There is a world civilization between Tiger and Euphrates. Baghdad has thousands of years of tradition. Every stone in Baghdad is the cultural heritage of this world. It's leveled with the ground. Those museums that speak of the thousand-year culture of the people of this world civilization have been destroyed. Will anyone be responsible for that? Of course not, because the powerful rule this world. The Hague, look, sentences General Blaskic to 43 years for war crimes, and then after three years, they let him go home. What kind of court is that? Where in the world someone can be treated as Krajisnik, six years in prison, and no action against him has been initiated. It has nothing to do with the court. Of course, the court in The Hague is actually an alibi for what they did to our people because they killed children and called it collateral damage. As far as these murders are concerned, when a man looks at it from the side he can't understand. Like Stambolic, I've been a politician for a long time, I even liked him, and when he was killed, I was amazed. But when you look at some historical facts, the DOS convention was made on July 7th 2000 and Vojislav Kostunica was identified as the single opponent of the opposition Milosevic. Two weeks later, Stambolic was killed. He was neither a candidate nor politically active, nor was he any opponent of Milosevic. What's the motive for Milosevic killing him at the beginning of his campaign? (President: Time. I only want to finish one sentence. We very much want the truth about Stambolic to be proved, and it was said by the Legion when they caught him, said Šiptar, Dusan Spasojevic: they killed Stambolic for Milosevic to lose the election. That's a terrible truth. You'll see that in the end it will prove itself because there was no motive. But unfortunately, look. When did Djindjic lose his head? The moment he began to say that Kosovo is an inalienable part of Serbia. (President): Please, time. After that, it happened. Before that, it wasn't a problem. So, I want to tell you, the story of Milosevic, that's what history will say, but what's irrefutable is the first time I listened to Professor Schulovic when he told me - a colleague, do you know why Catholics hate us; he says - Catholic religion came to the Philippines, never crossed Drina. For the first time in the history of the Serbian people, a Serbian state was built through the Drina. That's what Milosevic will remember, not by these stories.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13022	Thank you. The SPS has no time to argue anymore. The word has been made by the People's MP Bosko Ristic, you have four minutes left. Let the People's Messenger Petar Jojic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13023	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with the last words of my predecessor who says he knew the late Ivan Stambolic. Fortunately for me, by the way, I know Mr. Stambolic well, because he's my uncle. I do not see a clear dose of insolence and cynicism with which victims of one regime are mentioned as an argument that they are trying to prove that there is no motivation expressed by Milosevic and his family towards their political insinuators, and that they are removed in every possible, even the most brutal way, from this country's face. It is strange, dear friends, dear citizens of Serbia, that many people from around the family have disappeared by liquidation. Bajja, Kundak, Tref, Stambolic, Curuvija, all that connects them together is familiarity with the Milosevic family. I don't want to give any insinuations, but those are facts. To determine the truth, it is inevitable to conduct court proceedings, court proceedings. There is no strange coincidence now that people who were half-trons of the family and certain political options are returning to the judiciary, that Milosevic is annulling the verdict that took away the villa he bought two days before the bombing, which is a residence, which is otherwise nationalized by an old Belgrade family. I expect Bambilend to return to Marko Milosevic, who was built at the time Serbia was bombed. That's the topic, it's the motivation with which you go out for this pay phone to defend Slobodan Milosevic, Mira Markovic and his son. I don't want to generalize responsibility. Anyone who has been called to account and who has evidence that he has done something criminal is obliged to go through court proceedings. We have indictments that show a sufficient degree of certainty that they have acted criminally. Their criminal conduct and belonging to one family is not the basis for their amnesty. This resolution is illegal, unconstitutional, because no one has the right to interfere in court proceedings. It is also strange that Milosevic is only being prosecuted in the process of killing Ivan Stambolic, and just now that this procedure comes into an interesting stage for determining responsibility, when evidence is to be carried out, that evidence is being carried out, this resolution is now coming to light for days to end such a procedure. It's not constitutional, it's not legal. Only an individual act by the President of the State may bring an action against a person. Only the law on amnesty can initiate the decriminalization of the conduct of a predetermined circle of people to commit a certain crime. This would be an extremely bad precedent for Serbia's judiciary. Now that Serbia is trying to face all its problems from the past, with its mistakes, to go through the democratisation process, we have an attempt to restore the Milosevic regime and its glorification. It is more difficult for Milosevic to defend the Serb people in The Hague. Milosevic represents a personal defence because he is accused under the rules of international law, and Serbia is obliged to respect the rules of international law, and we are obliged to establish the truth about the crimes that everyone has committed, Muslims, Croats, Albanians, but also some of us, members of the Serb people. I don't want to be solidarity with any criminal who's committed any crimes, no matter who. I therefore insist that the procedures for determining the responsibility for the crimes and crimes committed are brought to an end, and I will consistently fight that this Parliament does not affect the proceedings by political pressures and that we do not send a message to independent judges, that this procedure leads to the end. That's what I'm gonna end up with, but I'm taking the opportunity to put one comment on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13024	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13025	I will be brief and I will simply say that you have violated the Rules of Procedure, and this is Article 156, paragraph 3, where it is said about the way the laws are passed, the decisions, the solutions, the resolution in this assembly. It is necessary that all proposals for acts be submitted to the Legislative Committee for a previous assessment of constitutionality and legality, which you have not done. By doing so, you violated Article 46(1). The Rules of Procedure, which governs the powers of the Legislative Committee to assess the legal possibility of the proposed acts in the Assembly. That is why I suggest you interrupt this assembly and discuss the resolution and submit the motion for this resolution to the Legislative Committee for a statement. If you do not decide that, then I demand that the Parliament in the voting day be made known about the breach of the Rules of Procedure in such a flagrant way.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13026	Replica, Mr. Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13027	This session was scheduled by 104 MPs. The president of the assembly just set a session time. In doing so, if you remember, since it has been eight days, from this pay phone I have been nominated by one MP, why did I not manipulate the law, why didn't I play, to play the will of the MPs and try to extend that time of session, although there was enough time because the previous session was concluded because it was necessary for certain laws for the citizens of this country to vote. So, after that, there was, during the period scheduled for extraordinary meetings, enough time and, of course, the president of the Assembly, as he will always do, the sessions scheduled by 104 MPs, of course, just set a date. In doing so, I informed all the heads of the parliamentary groups precisely because of the position of Article 3 156, and in the talks that I had with the heads of Parliament so that they would inform the MPs that they knew they were planning their time, because it is possible that someone else, like the President of the Assembly, had not used days of rest for the previous year, so that something like that would not happen to people. The agreement was reached to schedule the session in the same way as the session concerning the previous resolution, which was the resolution on the European Union's accession. According to this agreement, it was not sent to the Legislative Committee for a plea. The only thing that is my duty, in accordance with the agreement with the heads of Parliament's groups, in accordance with the proposal's request, is to inform this assembly of the deadline and date of the session. That's what I could do. Are you satisfied with the answer? If you're not, then in the voting day we'll plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13028	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Bosko Ristic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13029	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I cannot possibly be satisfied with this reasoning, because the president has essentially admitted that he has violated the Rules of Procedure. No agreement with the heads of parliament's groups shall exempt the president from the obligation to deliver any act to the Legislative Committee for a statement of whether it is legally possible, as this prevents the work of the Legislative Committee, which has an obligation, in accordance with Article 46, to take care of the construction of a legal system in Serbia. Such a resolution, if adopted, would violate the legal system, the fundamental constitutional values, the independence of the judiciary, and would establish a practice that has been repeated in the last week that acts which are anti-constitutional, illegal and which do not reflect the will of parliament members come out of this house.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13030	Right on the line, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13031	Let's not deceive the public about basics. The Constitutional Court gives an assessment of constitutionality. What makes you think it's an idea and what a shame it is for our citizens to be fooled, I don't mean yours, I'm sorry, I wouldn't insult the MP, I'm talking about something that happens all the time. So, that certain committees give themselves the right to assess constitutionality, legality, and know who does what. You are absolutely right, the Legislative Committee would give an opinion and the Legislative Committee could give an opinion. He's got an act to do. As you know, whether the president or vice president of the Legislative Committee, or a third of the members of the Legislative Committee, could schedule a session and give an opinion. You don't think the president of the Assembly would stop anyone from doing that. For God's sake, let's not give ourselves any information we don't have, or anyone else. The Constitutional Court under the Constitution can give an assessment of constitutionality; no Legislative Committee can do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13032	Right on line, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, replica of the People's MP Bosko Ristic [[Livorad Smiljanic: I first asked for a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13033	Please, if you've heard from me before, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13034	Mr. Wolfie, I guess I'm running a session here.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13035	They say I've called before. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to answer a few things that appear magically in the debate, as if someone wanted to transfer it to their political opponents, to their political competition. We've already heard words from this pay phone that speak about the murder of Ivan Stambolic, Slavko Curuvija and many other people in a previous period. I have to say one thing I'm sure all MPs will agree with, no matter what political option they belong to. There is no murder or any crime, I suppose, which some of the MPs are most strongly not condemning and for which they do not demand to be found by the perpetrators and to be punished with the most severe punishments possible. Every crime in the rule of law has to be sanctioned. I ask you, since you promised people that they would be sanctioned and found guilty, why didn't you do it in the period in which you ruled, but in the period in which you ruled there were multiple murders, and I don't want to say that you were responsible for them, nor did you do for killing Mr Pantic; is his life less valuable, so you don't mention him, and he's a journalist. Don't you want to talk about him? Do you not want to talk about Gabrielovich, so his life is less valuable than Baja's, whom you mentioned earlier. They did the same job. It's not. Whoever killed him must answer, and he must be punished with a drastic, dragonish punishment for example, so that it never happens again in Serbia. For that, every MP group, I suppose, in this assembly, and we, Serbian radicals, certainly stand for it. Since you're talking about how the promoters are motivated by the fact that we probably have more "Bambiland" and I don't know what we're not, we're not, I don't know, right to tell you, except that I know that he's somewhere in the firehouse, and neither where he is or what he's doing, I've never been, I might have missed something. What I do know is that in your ranks there are those who have a lot more than "Bambiland," and from the crates, and from the cigarettes. I know those who climbed that stage yesterday weigh a few dozen million euros, not dinars. I know when you're talking about the influence on the judiciary that you're joking. You're kidding because it's never been more brutal pressure on the judiciary than it was on your time; more brutal pressure on the families of your political opponents and on the judiciary. You directly ordered from the top of your party the man I think politically of, Dragan Marsicanin, destroyed the family, because you took the text to a daily Belgrade newspaper about how he went with this girl or that. No one in this country has ever done this to you, because it was known that someone's family is sacred, because nothing sacred is to you. That's what you did and come out and say it's not true, and I'll tell you who it is, when and at what time he brought it. You should be ashamed and ashamed. You've ruined people's lives at every turn. Now you're talking about someone and something. At every step, what no one will ever say anywhere, and we can say anything about each other, but there's something that's never said or said. Now I'm gonna get involved in what your kids are doing to you or what my kids are doing to you. That's what you were doing. The one Djelic, the unhappy one, comes out here and screams before he drinks three ice cubes, so it looks like something he exposes, comes out here and screams, all the thieves, who, Djelic said, were putting the accounts of the ministries, budget funds in the business banks. He puts the whole budget in two banks, and 0.3% of it comes out. Calculate how many million euros he's acquired. Everyone in this country knows and nobody knows anything. Everybody pretends like everything's in order, and he's honest, and some are thieves. I was chasing people for handing out bona fide workers. That's what you were talking about. This one boasted on television, and you remember that, Mr. Ristic, I know you're an educated man and you remember that. You remember, Mr. Ristic, when he boasted – here, I have now called the prosecutors to see where it came from, and here I have now called the judges; he is no longer interested in the fate of his idiotic applications, but is interested in whether it has reached the main search and when it will end. You made that part on TV. You're telling someone about the pressure on the judiciary. You're talking about someone...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13036	Take care of the weather, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13037	I'm done. You tell anyone about how the government was abused. Let me tell you, there have never been so many words in the media in Serbia about the families of their political opponents but in your time. That's what you learned to do in the most brutal way. There's just one more thing to tell you. None of these wanted to amnesty or abolize any of any of the judicial convictions or the prosecution itself. We're just trying and we're ready to tell you, type in the name and family of Djindjic, type in whatever you want, because we don't want to do what you're doing. You've mentioned a house ten times today, and I'm finishing it. How can it not occur to you to mention some who have wrongly received a villa, and we keep silent about it? Conversely, contrary to all the legal norms, all Serbia is silent, because some things are meant to be kept silent. You can't, because the only thing you knew, and that's how and how you're going to work dirty. You were talking about Curuvia. He won't tell you, because a man is proud. The morning after the murder of Slavko Curuvija, it happened that Toma Nikolic was there when I came and I saw that he insisted on the late Vlajko Stojiljkovic to be delivered to him as much as possible who was involved and that the murderers be found the fastest way. You do not want justice, for you use other people's blood and other people's death so that you can gain authority and that you can steal and steal, not because you sincerely regret someone and because you care about someone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13038	Thank you. Mr. Zivorad Smiljanić, right on behalf of the People's MP, Bosko Ristić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13039	He lost his right to his life and we think it's right. However, I want to remind you that Dusan Spasojevic and Mile Lukovic ended up. They showed them that they were surrounded at a cottage and that they died breaking through. Dusan Mihajlovic explained it like that, waiting until he said two sentences, a man of torment caught. Dusan Spasojevic and Mile Kum Lukovic, as they called him, lay down and held the kalashnikovs with wooden Kundaks, around their belts were bombs and it was shown that they were so killed. In all the Partizan films, when someone breaks out of the ring, they drop bombs first, and then they just shoot and break through the ring. That was more than funny. Second, clan leaders, so they don't run around Belgrade with kalashnikovs, they'd probably wear "uzi" or "heklers", which can hide, and then walk around Belgrade. They were shot. But why? Exactly what the Legion said - they killed Stambolic so Milosevic would lose the election, because it makes no sense for Milosevic to kill Stambolic if he was neither his opponent nor his bother. Two weeks before that, Kostunica was identified as an opponent and that is notorous truth. But I hope the truth comes out. Those who staged the murders will talk, and they'll see who was behind it. Please, I read the report from the journalist Brkic, saying goodbye to my great friend Tapi, and he gave him the obituary, so he said, when you get up there, say hello to Kizu. After that, he was arrested. Brkic described how his friend was killed. Paid him a bag and drowned him. And you know why they drowned him? Those who question don't know man's physiology. When you put a young criminal's bag on his head, he can last a long time, and the old man, when you put a bag, he'll be gone in two minutes. That's how Tapi drowned. So when you talk about democracy, when you talk about everything that's happened, we're keen to determine who tried to kill Vuk Draskovic. Vuk Draskovic didn't bother the Socialists. Someone else was in the way, both outside and inside. And he had to be put away so he wouldn't be the leader of the opposition, because that's who he is, he was breaking up the opposition, so they wanted to get rid of him. Slobodan Milosevic must have respected him because he knew he was such an opponent and would never lose the election. The others were disturbed by him. Others, both inside and outside, and that will prove itself, you will see. In the end, in all liquidations, always the same group. So, even when our power was destroyed, they were on October 5th to support, when it entered the institutions, so the army and the Kalashnikov police entered, but in front of those who conquered both the Trade Court and the People's Bank and Customs, all the criminals went ahead of those who entered.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13040	Mr. Bosko Ristic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13041	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I am reporting to the Rules of Procedure, but I am sorry that the President of the Assembly is not in place. I objected that Article 46 was injured, and that is, in paragraph 1, where the responsibilities of the Legislative Committee are stated as regards the assessment of the compliance of the proposed laws, resolutions, decisions, and this is a preliminary examination of the legal possibility of something coming to the Assembly's session at all. I'm sorry that Mr. Markovic was disabling the public, so he lied in front of all the media, looking into the eyes of the public, and twisted my words. So, the Legislative Committee looks after the harmonisation of the bill, the resolution, the solutions to the Serbian Constitution. He didn't do it. He says the Legislative Committee could have met alone. This is neither a practice nor a legal option. It is the President of the Assembly who takes care of the procedure in the Assembly, in accordance with Article 28. Rules of Procedure. Therefore, he is obliged to forward any proposal for a decision to the committee responsible. And whether or not the committees in charge will be declared, that is the right of that committee. It is only part of the fact that the president of the Assembly's behaviour is determined before the public, and the public will appreciate whether it is in accordance with the law and whether he is consistent with what he is saying about this speaker. In the other part, I just want to say that I agree in part with Mr. Vukic's exposure, primarily in the assessment that there should be no distinction between the murdered, the victims, the dead, and that no one's life is worth more than the lives of another person. And, I accept the commitment of every MP to establish in a court procedure, in competent institutions, who has committed, under what circumstances, what crime, who are the employers and what is the motivation. Only then will Serbia be on the path of full and real democratisation. Of course, I am not in a position to plead and mention all the names of the murdered persons in this troubled country, but it is clear that my speech referred to all the victims of such behavior and was sent to all the families of such victims. That part of the speech addressed to some in Serbia, that they presented personal and family opportunities without arguments, about individual MPs or about certain public figures, certainly do not belong to such MPs as the personal opportunities of other MPs are behind this speaker. If anyone has the argument to deny me in this attitude and claim, I would like to ask the specificity of this statement. But I will always fight and advocate that everyone be called to account for what he's done, to be in front of the public. I did that as an MP. I have also done so as president of some assembly committees, although I have been criticised for some political decisions of these committees, but all decisions, to remind you, are public, transparent. Every session of the committee I chaired was pre-arranged, media were called on, all interested in whose rights were decided, and they can confirm it themselves. Some meetings of the Assembly committees are scheduled in secret, not all members are invited, and especially not those on whose rights are decided. Those who have done so serve such a job as honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13042	The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13043	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, some MPs have spoken of what this resolution represents. The resolution is a document that should contribute to finally ruling the right and rule of law in the Republic of Serbia. My predecessor said that everyone before the law is equal. The Serbian Radical Party believes that all families are equal before the Constitution, equal before the law in this country. This resolution calls on the authorities to respect the Constitution and their laws and all international law standards that this country has ratified. Today, it is difficult to imagine a country that does not build human rights into its most important legal documents, especially constitutions and laws, and does not provide valid guarantees to respect the Constitution and the law. The essence of the rule of law of the newer era or of the rule of law constitute the integrity of human freedoms. That's why the notion of human rights is made up of those rights that are not owed to the state and its government, so the rights that are independent of the state, which were created before the origin of the state. Such civil and human rights and equality both involve legal and political equality. Legal equality means that all are equal before the law, and political equality primarily refers to governance of the state as a community. Although the advance seems to be well - known, the facts say that it is not. Modern democracies, based on the principles of rule of law, still today have major problems to fully provide the nation with civil and political rights in practice. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the situation is even more difficult in our country, because the current government is extremely prone to violation of civil and human rights, especially dramaticly and disastrously reflected in the "Sabbe" action, when more than 12,000 Serbian citizens were arrested within a short period of time, when the legal inequality of our citizens was established before the law. We must remind ourselves of the historical roots, the laws on freedoms and human rights, such as the Hamurabi Law, the Law 12 of the Tablets and the Dušan Code; the Universal documents on human freedoms and rights, the United Nations Charter of 1945, the General Declaration on the Rights of Man from 1948, the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights of 1966, the International Pact on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights of 1996, the International Convention on the Elimination of all forms of racial discrimination from 1965, the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. I would particularly like to highlight the constitutional documents of the seven countries of the world: the Constitution of the United States, the constitutional documents of England, the Constitution of the Republic of France of 1958, the Declaration of the Rights of Man and Citizens of 1789 and the preamble to the Constitution of 1946, the Constitution of the Republic of Italy of 1947, the Constitution of the Russian Federation of 1993, the 1992 Constitution of the SRJ and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. All I wanted to say in this part of my presentation concerns the issues of respect for human rights and the freedom of our citizens after 5 October 2000. Many international documents relating to human rights and freedoms have been ratified by our country. However, I must say, unfortunately, basic human and civil rights are being violated in our country in the most harsh way possible. For example, it was "Sabbe" action. Our judiciary has been thrown into the political arena and, instead of dealing with justice, in many cases, our judiciary has been involved in politics, because since 5 October 2000, our judiciary has been engaged in the execution of political parties' orders in power and is less involved in sharing justice. The best example of this claim is the persecution of the Slobodan Milosevic family and the lawlessness in the "Sabbe" action. The best example is the case of Marko Milosevic and the role of judicial authorities in Pogorevc in his process. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a statement that I will quote to you: "We, the undersigned SRJ officials from Serbia, clearly defined that we are implementing the law and establishing a legal state, and in order to prevent further unnecessary victims, we declare: the criminal proceedings brought before the District Court against Slobodan Milosevic, the former president of the Republic of Serbia, the SRJ and the president of the SPS are not initiated at the request of the International Criminal Tribunal for War Crimes in the former Yugoslavia, but because of a reasonable suspicion that he committed a crime under Article 26. SRJ's criminal code. We will therefore be able not to allow Slobodan Milosevic to be handed over to any court abroad, that the Slobodan Milosevic family will be provided and that we will enable the contact of the Milosevic family with its members and with Milosevic himself. "Anx 1. The signator of this statement is SRJ President Dr Vojislav Kostunica, President of the Republic of Serbia, then Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Dr Zoran Djindjic. Regarding this statement, there is a signed and certified annex: "Freedan Milosevic will not be handed over to any judicial or other institution outside the country. "Anx 2. "A day-to-day visit to the family will be guaranteed to Slobodan Milosevic. "For Annex 1 and 2, under the authority of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Dr Zoran Djindjic, Cedomir Jovanovic, on 31 March 2001." Ladies and gentlemen, previous speakers said I was a lawyer and defender Mark Milosevic. I am and will be a defense attorney and attorney to every honest and innocent citizen. For me, it won't be any difference who's from which party, who's which religion or who's which nation and what's the property. I will defend everyone to prove he's innocent. In the case of Marko Milosevic, I will tell you that a shameful central arrest warrant has been issued. It is not a central warrant for the territory of the former SRJ or the Republic of Serbia. This disgraced central APB, so-called. A red warrant was issued after the death of Dr Zoran Djindjic, the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, and there was no legal basis for that. This arrest warrant derailed every procedure, defused and disabled family and family contact with Slobodan Milosevic. You ladies and gentlemen know how Slobodan Milosevic was arrested; in the most brutal way. Well, no foreign citizen, no foreign enemy, no Serb radicals would have been arrested or persecuted, no man on a globe would have been delivered like that, not sold, would have taken money for his head at the Tuzlan airport. I therefore note that the Municipality court in Pozarevec, with Serbia's MUP, issued this shameful warrant, which must soon be lifted and deleted. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have heard many Democrats speak here about how this democratic government ruled. All those who participated in this will respond because there are precise data provided to the Assembly Security Committee, where 4.583 is said to be arrested in Belgrade; in Bora 200; in Valjevec 191; in Vranja 158; Zaječar 174; Zrenjanin 391; Jagodina 206; Kikindi 21; Kragujevac 400; Kraljevec 58; Kraševec 164; Leskovci 125; Nis 154; Novi Pazara 141; Novi Sad 303; Pančeva 1.204; Pirota 75; Firevac 187; Publishing Six; Smedereva 480; Sombor 695; Sremski Mitrovica 242; Subotics 382; Užica 132; Čačka 210; Šapacu 704. Is there anyone here from Capco to tell the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Sapca why 704 people and citizens have been arrested? What are we going to do now with 12,000 arrested? There's no way to get past this anymore. Don't be fooled that you'll get back into a situation like you were on October 5th. Ladies and gentlemen, they accused Mark Milosevic only because he said: bring Milovanovic Zoran to me to ask him who pays him, how much the SPO pays him, how much the Resistance pays him, and how many resistors there are in Pozarevec. That's illusory. Why would Slobodan Milosevic, as president of the state, ask for information from a Milovanovic Zoran from Požarevec, when he had a head of security, the interior minister, the head of the secretariat in Pozarevec, who knew when someone coughed in Pozarevec, not how many resistors he had and how much who paid. Ladies and gentlemen, I will remind you of this process. In Nuremberg, too, many had no record like Marko Milosevic in Pogorevc. It's an object with 600 and some sides. Here he is, ladies and gentlemen, I would be pleased if the Members of the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia would read him, condemn him who is in charge of the case and throw him out of court, that he would no longer work in court for another minute. The judge who judges Mark Milosevic won the apartment. By decision of the Fund for the Building of Apartments of the Municipality of Požarec, one apartment was allocated to the Municipality court in Požarevec, with the court giving legal proceedings to its employee. So this apartment isn't meant for elected faces, or set up. For this apartment, ladies and gentlemen, two judges and four or five employees competed. By order of the court president, Milice Peric, a score was made, and there is no rules on the distribution of apartments, but she has given the order that the apartment should be assigned to and to whom. I have a written statement and an application, whatever you want to call it, which indicates that the judge's president has volunteered to judge the non-insistant, among other things as members of the SPS in Pozarevec, she is named Marija Vukevic, formerly Marinkovic, assigned 80 points and the workers can get a maximum of 50. When's the municipal court worker gonna get those 30 points? Never. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the work of that judge who judges Marko Milosevic is concerned, I will draw your attention to the fact that in the case of KV 202/02, in which the detention of Jovanovic Zoran from Požarevec was established, a second-degree District Court in Požarevec was approved. The case was returned, but this same judge, Vučićevic - Marinković Marija, formed a bigger one to decide on the detention of Jovanovic Zorana, who is responsible for the fatal consequences and who has been sentenced to 30 months in prison. Ladies and gentlemen, it is interesting, and in court practice, unrecorded, the professional public, if he hears this, will have the opportunity to be disgusted, Mrs. Marija Marinkovic has put in greater place a judge who has not been in Pozarevec. As part of this, Judge Adelaide Angelkovic, who was not in Pozharevc for five days, joined the council. When this judge Adelaide, meanwhile when she came, was offered to sign a record of the council and the vote, of the suspension of detention, she opposed it and did not want to sign the report, because she did not take part in the decision. After five days, the President of the Court and also the President of the Council, both the judge and the judge are correcting and falsifying the solution, thus bringing a second one, and both the prosecutor and the president of the court have been informed. However, nothing has been done by ladies and gentlemen, I will draw your attention to the notice of the DHSS Municipal Committee regarding contacts with the judicial authorities in the municipality of Pogorec. Notice - we estimate that the best notification is what is given in writing and for which arguments are given, evidence. Consistent with that, that's how it's done. DHSS in Pogorevec, either verbally or in writing, addresses a number of natural and legal persons in order to provide legal assistance and to seek the protection of their interests against illegality, abuse of official status, crime expressed in various forms, as well as other abuses expressed. In order to be able to take certain measures and activities, it has been discussed on all issues, and the final conclusion is reached on the DHSS General Board. Here we want, they say, to list several characteristic cases, which point to violations and abuse of the law, both the judge and the president of the Municipal Court in Pogorevec. The crime and the Marjanović Sava case. Day 6. 11. In 2002, the DHSS addressed Marjanović Sava from Požarevec in writing, asking him to be legally protected and to properly apply the law to the perpetrator of the crime and to respond to the President of the Požarec Court, and that of the Municipal Court, etc. According to Marjanovic, the letter indicates that he was in a car accident, which took place on 13. 4. In 2002, his son lost his life, and the accident caused and blamed the guilty Jovanovic Zoran from Pozharec. Jovanovic was prosecuted and fined, but the detention institute was misused during the proceedings. In fact, it's a criminal-legal matter in case number 325/02. The perpetrator of the crime was sentenced to a 30-month sentence, with an extension of detention and a reference to the maintenance of the prison sentence. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, even the DHSS Municipal Committee in Povorevec intervened on this. What happened? When the detention of this Jovanovic Zoran, he left, was not referred to support the prison sentence, the judge falsifies a record of an increase and a vote, makes an illegal solution and no one initiates a criminal procedure. This was just one brief address regarding the judge in question. Ladies and gentlemen, in the case of Marko Milosevic, I have read in detail all the records, all the documents and all the letters, but, ladies and gentlemen, I can tell you that Marko Milosevic did not commit the crime that is being put on him. The district court abolished our appeal of the court's verdict and said that the first-degree decision was illegal, that the argument of the verdict was in contradiction, that as such it could not survive and therefore it was abolished. Finally, the main search was scheduled on March 4th of this year, where I will defend him as a man, not only because he is the son of Slobodan Milosevic. Ladies and gentlemen, as biased as the Municipal Court has been, here are just a few examples. You have a case to read in the report on the main search since 15 March 2003. This is not remembered in court practice. Says page 71 - at this stage of the procedure, the main search was interrupted for ten minutes because the damaged one was slightly ill. It's around 11:30, and this was about 9 o'clock, the judge, who, as you can see here, is not according to the law, says - at this stage of the trial, a continuing hearing of the damaged, when the injured asked the court to let him go in 45 minutes to go to a friend's cemetery for a parasite. The court provides a solution: it allows a damaged person to go to a parastoss. In the end, as many privileges as he has, and the judge was his lawyer. At this stage of the procedure, the damaged asks whether the main search will last much longer because it is hungry. Where's this? This wasn't even in Bangladesh. Ladies and gentlemen, the District Court says in an explanation, when the verdict was lifted, the judgment of the Municipal Court of Firevac K No. 504 out of 23. Seven. In 2004. In its explanation, the court states and says: what kind of constructions were the first court when statements in the investigation were given one, and on the main search of the other, the court accepts certain statements he heard from the street or in the investigation, and does not accept any statement given in the main search. However, the Code of Criminal Procedure obliges the Court to base its decision solely on the evidence it presented on the main search. Ladies and gentlemen, we're going to have another trial, which one would say, we must have a daughter again. To see another illogicality. If this is remembered, this damaged party was a member of a party, first said he was a member of the SPO, then that he was a member of the Resistance, then went to the DS to tell the DS members that he was invited and threatened by Marko Milosevic. However, this same Milovanovic Zoran, damaged, says at the main search -- don't, please, I have no idea that Marko Milosevic threatened me. He says - I'm sorry, please, Mark Milosevic did not threaten me, and Marko Milosevic did not have a saw, and I had no physical contact with Marko Milosevic. What's next? What will the court do now? What should a poor, poor judge do when a damaged person tells him so himself? What's the D.A.'s office going to say when the damaged one himself says, "Don't, I said that on the street." That Milovanovic Zoran was employed in the SUP after October 5th, hired by the chief and one of the heads of the MUP to work at the SUP Požarec. Anyway, it would be until morning to tell how much I've had a chance to see what kind of lawlessness this is, what unconstitutionalness it is, what insolence it is. I can tell you that the Slobodan Milosevic family was robbed, all they could have robbed, even today, the wives of some of the officials in Požarevec wear pumpkins, shoes and purses from the house, home and family of Slobodan Milosevic. They took it all the way from the bakery and the toilet. Ladies and gentlemen, there's nothing left. Some media have gone so far as to bring down the former government. They found a man through whom one difficult propaganda should be carried out and showed that the situation in Povorevec is impossible because of Marko Milosevic. Ladies and gentlemen, it won't be like that. This is not remembered, for an ordinary story to be the object of a 700-page Mark Milosevic, that the state includes in this its entire judicial and police apparatus, which costs a fat state. In such cases, if he were a smart judge, he would have freed Mark Milosevic. Marko Milosevic must be released, like it or not. Serbian radicals will protect everyone, we will come to power, we will behave, there is no difference for us who it is or what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13044	National MP Natasa Jovanovic, and get Meso Omerovic ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13045	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mrs Pop-Lazic, when she was in the Hall of the "Sava Center" a month ago – in the smaller one that could not fit those 2,000 people, who waited outside and tried to hear the elite from our legal science, respected and respected scientific workers and people of public life – held a rally called the Political and Legal aspect of the indictment against Prof. Vojislav Seselj. All these present guests, conditionally said, but above all people who made no doubt a contribution in our legal theory and practice, scientific workers said that this name lacked another word, which is the moral aspect of the indictment against Prof. Dr. Vojislav Seselj. When we talk about this resolution today, which aims to fully expose the nature of today's regime, because it represents, to the greatest extent, the continuity of the collapse of the DOS furniture, we need to talk about what this resolution actually is, and what many MPs, including the MPs of the SRS and the SPS, so everyone else, did not understand. Neither those for whom Mr Tomislav Nikolic used the right people's expression – fugitives, who today bear the greatest responsibility because of the fact that they are in power and the headquarters of the gathering, here I primarily think of DSS and Vojislav Kostunica, as the prime minister of all that has no potential in Serbia, nor real representation capacity. Because if you look at who these parties are from Kostunica's environment, you will come up with a simple fact that should concern him, and you should worry him, from October 5th to this day, that he is headed by an unfortunate party conglomerate, today divided into several columns, which he has personified at that time, and today through the statements of their officials is the greatest evil for democracy, the greatest evil for Serbian society in general, for the Serbian people and for all citizens of Serbia. All we could hear today and ten days ago, when the debate on this resolution began, is evidence that every sentence and every word written in this text of resolution is in fact the only true truth, which is that political persecution of non-insects after October 5th and the eve of October 5th, by those who present today the defeated and losing options in Serbia, did not stop and do not stop today or today, but in one way or another, through unfinished trials, by putting criminal acts in a drawer for the representatives of the DOS regime, through the appointment of the most uncommon people to judicial functions, is in fact the image of everything that the SRS has been fighting against since its establishment. I have to get you back to everything that started when it comes to the former president of Serbia and SRJ Slobodan Milosevic. What I have in my hand, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, is a stenogram from the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia since 31 March 2001. On that day, Djindjic's government, with that unfortunate man Bozidar Djelic, who has no shame or cheek when yesterday he could from the stage of the long-lost DS talk about some reforms, so that day the 2001 budget was adopted and a package of tax laws, which marked the beginning of growing misery and poverty for the Serbian people, for all citizens of Serbia. At that session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, speaking of such a devastating budgetary policy that was conducted and started to be conducted by the DOS-Maliæ government through Djelic's projects, Professor Vojislav Seselj, as he heard, and was already talking all day about the strong police forces around the house, i.e. the residence of former Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic, was very clear and loud from the assembly speaker warning DOS-mania, those who had begun the haika a few months before that and the persecution of political insinuators, not to make new evils in Serbia. He told them and told them that as a politician, as a responsible politician at the head of today's biggest political party in Serbia and as a man who has always been since the start of his political struggle in any contact with political inexperience, those who speak and do anything with hate, that they do not, because eventually, that hatred will eat them. In the true sense of the word, it did, because the hatred and rigour ate DOS and many political parties disappeared from Serbia's political scene. There remained a Democratic Party, which, as it tried yesterday and today, boasts that it has some capacity and strength. However, it is quite obvious, and their strength, which they spoke of yesterday between the two world wars, is also evidence that they were always far behind the Serbian Radical Party. The president of our party, after such a sharped-up step and obvious intention to arrest Slobodan Milosevic from the assembly speaker, said: "I call on the state leadership, I know how insecure you are, and I don't tell you much (he spoke to the MPs in the hall, who in the same manner as many today were thrown out of the bench), to reason and sobriety. If the blood is spilled, then there may be no end to the bloody circuit. You know, it's dangerous, and that's why I call for reason and sobriety. You who have no reason to do so are not even clear to you. I hope there are those who are reasonable, and they currently have the means of power in their hands. That's why I'm saying this. It'll be very bad if there's blood. I have no personal reason to defend Milosevic, but what you are doing tonight is at the expense of state interest." Of course, the chairman of Natasa Micic interrupted him all the time and told him that he was not authorized to talk about it. The president of our party moved on and said, "I want my conscience to be calm. I'm here to the nation, not to Parliament, to announce what's going on, and my conscience is calm. For all that may happen much worse will be the responsibility of those who organised it." The session continues, and the president of our party, speaking of such a devastating budget project and tax laws, once again warned and said, given that all media reported a dramatic situation over Slobodan Milosevic's residence: "All this is happening is very serious. You're making a mess in all areas, and you're not thinking about the consequences at all. Your anxiety, your hatred here is just an additional argument to me that I'm absolutely right. You didn't come here because you think with your own head, but because you're obedient to the NATO Pact. You are the choosers of the NATO Pact here. You do all that is against your people." The president of our party, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, was unfortunately right that day because the drama continued because Cedomir Jovanovic was taken on that day, with the help of Dusan Mihajlovic, Goran Vesic and all those who personified the evil of the Dossmanal regime and the Democratic Party, broken down by some factions today. Our president and we, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, left the session and went to a salary in front of the Serbian presidency, where we were illegally and unlawfully taken from the jeep owned by the Serbian Radical Party. While the cordon police of the violence they applied, most brutally over the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, took care to take away our property and our property, police forces, as well as the people gathered around Slobodan Milosevic's residence, were increasingly numerous. And it happened that on March 31st, he was arrested, conducted to Central Prison, and then on June 28th, that same year, he was taken to The Hague, when the Constitution of this country was violated, and when Kostunica was uninformed about it, attended a concert by Jovan Kolundzija or something like that. We are today, as, above all, high moral and responsible people, and politicians who are ready to lead this country and this people into a better future, to respect the Constitution and the laws of this country, submitted before you, before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a resolution that we wanted to correct a single injustice. Only the family of Slobodan Milosevic is mentioned here. You don't even talk about what his son's name is, what his wife's name is. It is his closest, it is the family of the former president of Serbia and the SRJ, who is not defending himself today, such as the ignorant one, not to say maliciously, but to the entire Serbian people and everything we have done defending against aggression, the NATO Pact and saving Serbian countries west of Drina and Danube. Then the question arises, and I return to the morale that is being potent in this resolution, which was missing at that high scientific gathering when it comes to the political indictment against our president, Professor Vojislav Seselj. The question arises whether national representatives in the highest assembly home, those who were bitter opponents of Slobodan Milosevic, have any humanity and morals on them. It turns out they don't, because today March 31st is funny to them, and June 28th, our biggest holiday Vidovdan, when it was taken to The Hague by the president of Serbia and the SRJ against the Constitution and the law. They find it funny in the parliamentary benches when I say this, but let them remember what Slobodan Milosevic told them, no matter how self-aware they were that he was once their political opponent. On that day, because he was so humiliatingly, as former president of this country, taken to The Hague again, I repeat, accused of some kind of command responsibility that does not exist anywhere, which was established in that ad hoc tribunal, he said and told - Serb brothers, you have done your job today, but don't forget - today is Vidovdan. Then I return you to the words sent from this pay phone by the MPs of the ruling DOS, Professor Vojislav Seselj. He warned you, I address you who were once representatives of this regime, who has done a lot of harm to this country and the people, addressed you and told you – everyone who commits sin, and the greatest sin of high treason, to betray their country and their people through serving Western Serb blackmailers or your mentors, however you wish, will be cursed by the 11th generation. Of course, that's what Professor Vojislav Seselj said not wanting to happen to any of you or those who sat on this side, but it happened that the Serbian people didn't want you anymore. You're talking about some kind of tolerance, you honor us for being primitive, like this or something. Do I need to remind you of the case of today's fellow Zhivojin Stefanovic, who sits in front of you, once president of Leskovac Municipality and Chief of Jablanic County. Do I need to remind you that he never came out to tell you anything from this pay phone, and twice your activists and your followers in post-October euphoria burned down your house, destroyed everything, robbed you? The Horde came to the door, whether there's a woman, children, grandchildren, come out. Your reckoning and your link between political opponents was more than obvious in the first days of the new assembly called after October 5th, when it comes to my colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party. Just remember all the disgusting lies launched against the woman who, and you see how it all comes back as a boomerang, had three years of honor to bring down your Dosmanli regime, against Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic. Just remember how long you waved at some sort of, mildly said, pointless application and indictments against former Serbian Radical Party ministers. Not to tell you about my case and the fact that I have experienced and that, after the most honorable work I have done in the Serbian Parliament and it has proved to be right, on all the information shows, on all the central televisions, the main news is the statement by then Prime Minister Vladan Batic and the head of the parliamentary group that is now raving to you by the party of Cedomir Jovanovic, that I should bear the worst punishment possible because of the watering of the then-president Natasa Micic. You see how the people think with their heads and see how everything finally agrees, the dice come into place, and how reasonable the Serbian people are and how they know how to make the right decision. They will also know that in the second half of this year, when the extraordinary parliamentary elections are called, the citizens of Serbia, in addition to all the evils you have done, and I think as a former regime, will remember that during your regime, they were out of work, and that they were humiliated, and that they had an action of "Sabbe," and that you were one woman who had nothing to do with anything in her life, planted it with a purse over her hand, saying, "I have decided to introduce the state of emergency." Although on that day, Mr Tomislav Nikolic warned you that it was against the constitution and that you cannot act like one. You will remember that day when citizens are offered options between the SRS and the rest of you from the Dossmanian failed regime, that you have arrested people, that you have hacked people at night into the house, that you have spread the worst possible lies, and that you are working against political insatiable people, and above all, the SRS. He will also remember that you had nothing human on you when you mocked everything that the family suffered, not Slobodan Milosevic by name and last name, but for those of you who must be aware that you were born in Serbia and that you were elected by the laws of this country, former president of Serbia and the SRJ. What should I say to you, or to all of you, for whom a few days ago the president of the SRS Executive Board, Mr Dragan Todorovic, has said nicely, that you are under one incredible fever, under one disease that only attacks you, under the fever of the SRS, so as anyone comes out for a pay phone, the bigger and bigger blue seals on his face, the more rage and anger rises. I call you to reason and tolerance, and that word that you so often use for your marketing and promotional purposes alone. Look again, because I have the impression that you haven't read from beginning to end what it says in the text of this resolution. Don't offer us any other memorandum, offer us other options, because if you had anything normal, after all you've done for three years of your reign, to offer to the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia, you would remain in power. Now, all you have to do is regret that time, because you've been comfortable, because you and your followers enjoyed each other very much, to the tiniest clerk you've ever had in your environment. Serbian citizens remain to see who was right after this discussion and after the arguments brought out by MPs, primarily the SRS and then the SPS. You should be aware that every citizen of Serbia, above all, a member of the Serb people, when he looks at the transfer of trial and trial against Slobodan Milosevic, as former president of Serbia and the SRJ, has a sense of belonging to his people and to his country, and knows that this resolution and the possibility that the former president of Serbia and the SRJ would see his family and make contact with it after so many years would help him defend the interests of our country and our people even more. If it wasn't enough for you to see what he was saying, why didn't you pay attention to the testimony in the defence process of those who helped defend Slobodan Milosevic, and to see how they addressed him, and not Serbian and SRJ citizens, they were senior officials, and above all, the Russian Federation. Why did it not occur to you to pay attention to the fact that both the former foreign minister and the prime minister of the Russian Federation of Primakov address Mr. President in the same way as General Ivashov and other officials. We are, therefore, talking about the political persecution of the former president of Serbia and the SRJ. I don't think you wanted, and of course because of your political acuity and everything that your policy represents, which is not going in the direction of democracy and the normal development of this society, to see what it really is and what the text of this resolution represents. If you were aware that you were elected on those lists, and this also applies to the ruling set, you would know that today, that is, how much should all representatives of any party elected to parliament vote for this resolution tonight or the next day for this resolution, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because it speaks of the former president of Serbia and the SRJ. It remains on your mind and conscience that you've been thinking about it for a long time, and that's why they'll warn you when they realize it, after you, of course, and your future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13046	Direct mention, replica right, MP Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13047	Dear MPs, the Honorable chairman, I was mentioned earlier in Miss Jovanovic's step. I've never talked about this pay phone about how the Dossow authorities were counting on each other on the ground. You knew what was going on in Belgrade, you knew what was going on in the Federal Assembly, but in the field down there, the place was worse than here. He had someone here to protect you, and then the ministers of police and justice, etc., on the ground we were left to ourselves, with our part of the family. After October 5th, which you call a revolution, which was a classic rebellion of a group of citizens, somewhere armed with rifles, kalashnikovs, and somewhere with Molotov cocktails or some other firepower. There, just in those districts or municipalities where, on 24 September, our option with radicals won, as in Leskovic, and Milosevic defeated Kostunica in the district, the municipal list of councilmen won, then, which was then represented by the Socialists and was an associate of President Milosevic, either to kill him or to burn down his house and take away his power. Unfortunately for me, and fortunately, my family wasn't in the house, and I wasn't in the house either. The house was completely destroyed by the horde led by the Democratic Party's peri-democracy in Leskovac, depicted at the time by the DOS, because they could not regret that the Belgrade-Presevo transverse was one, as they said, red dot, Leskovac, and they forgot that Vranje is similar to Leskovac, who then also won. If such a reckoning was with us who were ordinary, let me say, civil servants or small party executives, then I can assume what kind of torture the Slobodan Milosevic family had and he himself; from illegal arrest, and for the acts for which it has not yet been revealed, which is why he was taken to CZ, to the violation of the Constitution, you are legalists, who have run over and transferred him to The Hague, and to his family. And a moment ago, what evidence of persecution is said, quite enough when, by the criminal law, it is socially harmless and for which so little punishment is threatened, an international arrest warrant is issued. You're saying the resolution is unconstitutional and illegal. On the contrary, it is constitutional and legal, because the National Assembly has the right to control the administration of both executive and judicial, because it chooses and sets, but it does not suit you today who will not vote for this resolution, because you are going to individual pressures on the court, on the authorities of detection, prosecution and judgment. And day and day, even though you say you're in opposition, DS... (President: Take care of the weather. ) The Democratic Party is in power in my district, today all functions of the SUP, the prosecution and the court are held by representatives of the DS and the party of Vladan Batic. They're just judging by these principles, by the principles of a warrant. That's why for four and a half years, from the burning of that house to today, no procedure has been initiated, and to this day for the public prosecutor, and for the district and municipal, it's the n.e.c. The executor. And you're because someone asked someone to give him an apartment or because someone made a street fight you're issuing an international APB. That is why this resolution should be adopted, that all of us, and then Serbian President Milosevic, and I, all of you, your families, have equal rights under the law. No less than that. That is why this resolution should be voted on, and today I am ready to bear a greater sacrifice, because I know that I belonged to the party and that it was led by a man who led the country tremendously, and today I am even more convinced, because it is an extraordinary proof of who did this in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13048	Thank you. National MP Meho Omerovic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13049	Thank you, esteemed vice presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the honourable fellow Members of the People, it is good that we are here at the very end of the debate on an act that should not have been found on the agenda for us from the SDP. I say it is good that we are at the end of the debate, because in the previous part we have heard so much that it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure and a violation of the dignity of the MPs and of the Assembly, because so much hatred, so much anger, so much the gallantness of the MPs to other MPs, that at some point I was ashamed to sit in this room at all. I can assume that the citizens of Serbia who watched the work of the Republika Srpska Assembly through TV broadcasts felt. I was convinced that after the debate on the proposed laws on equalising equidistants and partisans, we would not speak such hard and ugly words to each other, but unfortunately I was wrong. I am sorry that today's work is not presided over by Mr. Zoran Angelkovic because then we would complete the picture of absurdity, then we would return the wheel of history about 10 to 12 years ago. For us, I repeat once again, from the SDP this act is unacceptable and unnecessary. A resolution like this, which the proposer puts it in his name, dealing with the defence of the Slobodan Milosevic family against alleged persecution, should not have been found on the agenda at all. Why was she even on the agenda? Well, because the president of the Republika Srpska Assembly, Mr Predrag Markovic, did not seem to answer correctly to the gentleman, counterpart Bosko Ristic, nor is it wise, thinking wisely, interpreted by the Rules of Procedure, whom we all have to stick to. And what does the Rules of Procedure say? The Rules of Procedure in Article 46 literally states that the Legislative Committee is considering the draft law, second regulation and general act addressed to the National Assembly, from the point of view of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system. Well, a member of the 135th of that same Rules of Procedure says -- the bill, before considering in the National Assembly, is being discussed by the competent committees and the government, unless it's the draftr of the law. We know that the government is not a legislator, but the last fifth position of that same member says - unless the committees and the government deliver reports, or opinion, the National Assembly may decide to consider the bill without them, or set a new deadline within which they are obliged to do so. Looking at the stenogram from the beginning of the debate on this resolution, we have found, and we have witnessed, that the committee responsible and the Legislative has not delivered an opinion, nor has the chairman found that we do not have the opinion of the Legislative Committee, nor has he asked the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, or most of the MPs present, whether we can work without the opinion of the Legislative Committee. So in this context, we think that this act is contrary to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What have we been doing here for 11 days? I'll remind you that we started the debate on February 18th, and today it's February 28th. There were words in the debate by some colleagues, who criticised the resolution, that it was big Serbia. On the other hand, some others said this was about European Serbia. For us in the SDP, when we choose between the two Serbs, we choose normal Serbia. I would personally like to ask all MPs to do the job that Serbian citizens have chosen us for. And so many laws, dear and respected colleagues, are waiting in the procedure to discuss and discuss them in this high house, and we need to pass one of these acts which, I remind you, in the opinion of the SDP, is not in line with the Rules of Procedure and is contrary to the Constitution. It seems to me that the president of the Serbian Parliament has done something that some school teachers usually do. You know, you give free topic to students, then everyone writes and tells whatever they want. In the previous debate on this resolution, unfortunately, that's exactly what happened. I understand the proposing's political motives and it's perfectly legitimate and allowed by those who asked for this. However, the deal seems to have been reached not here in Belgrade, but in The Hague tribunal, that is, in its detention units, and the deal was reached by SRS President Dr Vojislav Seselj and, I think, since the honour of the SRS, Mr Slobodan Milosevic. Because, as far as I can see, the Socialists are not authorized representatives of the interests of Slobodan Milosevic and his family, but I guess without trust in them, having long since failed him, he has in some way authorised representatives of the SRS to represent him. At the very end, the SDP will vote against such a resolution if it comes to a vote in the Republika Srpska Assembly. I hope that MPs of the ruling DSS and G 17 Plus coalition will enter the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and vote against one such resolution, or one such document. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13050	Thank you. Here is the word of the People's Messenger Nemanja Sarovic, then the Messenger of the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet, which will be the last speaker. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13051	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a resolution to facilitate the defence of Slobodan Milosevic in The Hague by suspending his family's persecution. Slobodan Milosevic, a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, is in The Hague as former president of the Republic of Serbia, as former SRJ president, and you wanted to admit it or not, Slobodan Milosevic is not being tried as an individual in The Hague, in The Hague, Slobodan Milosevic is being tried as president of the state. He's being tried, and at the same time he's being tried by the Serb people. That is why it should be sufficient for all of you, regardless of the party you come from, to be interested enough to contribute to his defense. The way many MPs, who won't vote for this resolution, talk about it, only shows us that they probably haven't even read it. This resolution requires two things: to order competent state authorities to end political persecution of Milosevic family members; another thing is to immediately suspend the abuse of judicial and executive authorities for political purposes. I'm asking you -- are those who are today against this resolution in fact for political persecution and for further abuse of judicial and executive authority? This resolution of the SRS did not require any abject or pardon for any of the Milosevic family members. What we were looking for is the right to trial for Milosevic family members as well as for all other citizens of Serbia. You accused us of saying all the worst about Slobodan Milosevic, his wife Mirjana Markovic, and that is true, but you forgot to say when and when it was. It was at a time when they were the strongest. It was at a time when the leaders of our party were imprisoned. It was a time when your party leaders secretly went to meetings with the same Mirjana Markovic. It was a time when you weren't allowed to say a word of criticism in public about them. Slobodan Milosevic has not been a political opponent of the SRS for a long time. He came down from the political scene. We, the Serbian radicals, hit Slobodan Milosevic as hard as we could, but when he was at the height of power. Now that he's defeated, when he's no longer our political opponent, when he's in the dust, don't ask us to keep kicking him. To us radicals, it is not a feature, because we have always treated our political opponents, and especially the defeated, knightly. You're talking about murders, various abuses, billions of dollars in Cyprus and things like that. I'm asking you a question, is it your interest to be responsible for these murders, to determine it in court proceedings, and to once put an end to these stories, or do you want those you accuse not to get a chance to defend themselves? Do you want this way, driving them out of the country, in fact, to bring judgment without judgment? You say you've introduced democracy. I ask you whether this democracy applies to everyone or only to those for whom you define it? Whether there is democracy for the Milosevic family, or perhaps you will establish a commission that will determine who has the right to democracy, who does not. The main problem for many of you is that you have built your ideology on hatred for your political opponents, hatred for the Milosevic family and that now that they are practically gone in Serbia's political life, you have lost the compass. Why today, after so many years, do you practically blindly direct hatred towards members of the Milosevic family? Is it possible that you've exhausted all your policy reasons? There's been a lot of thesis here, like. that members of the Milosevic family should be grateful for the mercy shown to them by the bearers of the petoctobar revolution? Is this the Europeanisation of Serbia and the tolerance you offer? I urge you to show your attitude towards the citizens of Serbia through your relationship with this resolution. I call on everyone, regardless of political membership, to vote for this resolution because this is not a resolution on the Milosevic family, this is a resolution against hate, this is a resolution for tolerance, this is a resolution for democracy. Your relationship with this resolution will be your measure of humanity.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13052	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13053	Ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of the public of Serbia, for MPs who in the debate called this resolution a crowded flyer, plain paper, paper without theme, and I don't know what kind of ugly names, for the part of this Parliament so-called. Legalist, who has cowardly escaped from this debate, so as not to tell the citizens of Serbia whether they want to or do not want to help our citizens imprisoned in The Hague, I will briefly remind you that he is so-called. The International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia has been established on the basis of Security Council Resolution 808, since 20 February 1993, which has also been confirmed by Security Council Resolution 827, since 25 May 1993, and all contrary to Chapter VII, Articles 39 to 51. UN Command. This, my dear colleagues, is your undivided opinion of the professional, legal world public. This is what the press and the media in Serbia do not report, and such reports are present in international media. Nearly 18 Dutch country lawyers, who is hosting The Hague tribunal, have sent a UN protest letter, warning them that the UN tribunal is illegal and illegal. That so-called. The International Criminal Court, ladies and gentlemen, is the place where basic human rights are violated in the most cruel way possible. We Serbian radicals always talk about violating the human rights of our president, Dr Vojislav Seselj. I remind you that Mr. Seselj has twice since 1993 asked for a Dutch visa to go to The Hague, to say there what he has to say about Serbia, about the Serbian national interests that he will defend there and defend, of course. He didn't get a visa. Another reason was that his presence would endanger the safety of the Dutch queen, so now I'm just worried about how the Dutch queen has been for two years since Vojislav Seselj was in The Hague. No one can think of a final trial, a chance to say and defend Serbia's national interests, which is why he voluntarily went to The Hague. So, Vojislav Seselj volunteered, as soon as the Belgrade indictment signed by Carla del Ponte against Vojislav Seselj, bought his money, voluntarily went to The Hague because he promised it to the citizens of Serbia. As he left, he said it would be best for Serbia to be the last Serb to go to The Hague and call on all those already charged or those charged with no longer going to The Hague. That's the SRS' position when it comes to the UN tribunal. In the debate over this resolution there were indeed the most frightening statements, not only in this room, but in the media, between these two parts of the session with this agenda. Unfortunately, on October 6th, he was more than present every day. I heard one DS official say on almost one TV show that on October 5th, it was unthinkable that five years later in the Serbian Parliament, some people would say whatever they wanted and that five years later, MPs such as Vucelic, Tom Nikolic and Aleksandr Vukic would walk through the assembly. That's what those who are political primitives say, those who speak with hate speech, and who try to impose it on someone who in a completely different way is politically thinking and speaking. Ladies and gentlemen, October 5th will never be again. You who regret that October 6th, you missed your chance. It was the first time, the last time, and never again. I want to remind you that none of you, who will not vote for this resolution, spoke of human rights violations in The Hague. You didn't speak at the time when Mr. Vojislav Seselj was banned for eight months from contacting members of his family, with party members, with his friends. You didn't react even now, when from the SRS statement, I assume, you found out that Vojislav Seselj was transferred to another detention unit, which doesn't even belong to the UN, but was rented by the Dutch authorities. You didn't even talk about how you kidnapped Slobodan Milosevic and how by persecuting his family you tried to disable his brilliant defence against The Hague tribunal. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to remind you for a little while, I'm guessing that all the parliamentary groups have received one letter, because it's addressed to all the parliamentary groups, by a gentleman who says he writes to us on behalf of a part of the non-Serbs attached to truths, justice and Serbia. You should have read, if you haven't already, you have in parliamentary groups, so you can see the opinion of the citizens of Serbia on this resolution. Today, a colleague of Ljiljana Nestorovic was tried after this pay phone...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13054	I'm sorry, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13055	I don't mind, let them moan. counterpart Ljiljana Nestorovic tried to deceive the public when she said Mr. Vuk Obradovic was punished for allegedly committing a criminal act of abuse in the service and fornication. In the meantime, we got a fax that says it's not true, that it's true that only a first-degree verdict was made, so it's only an insult and it's not a judicial one. Lawyers know you can't speak of unfair judgments. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not invite you to adopt this resolution. I leave it to your conscience, but I want to warn you that the least you can do is vote for this resolution to at least wash your conscience a little bit, both in front of God and the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-28-0.u13056	Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for a word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Before I conclude a unique search, does the proposing's representative want a final word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. Since the National Assembly has completed its discussion on the only item of the agenda, pursuant to Article 81(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I hereby set the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at 17.45 p.m. on 28 February 2005 as a voting day. Let's figure out the quorum first. By applying the electronic voting system, we have determined that 213 MPs are present in the hall. We have a voting quorum. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a resolution to facilitate the defence of Slobodan Milosevic in The Hague, by suspending the persecution of his family After the National Assembly has carried out a single search, we move to a decision. I am putting to the vote the motion for a resolution to facilitate the defence of Slobodan Milosevic in The Hague, by suspending the persecution of his family, in general. For 99, against 121, of a total of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not adopt a motion for a resolution to facilitate the defence of Slobodan Milosevic in The Hague by suspending his family's persecution. The decision of the National Assembly on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were referred to during the session by the MPs. Since the session shows the injuries of the National Assembly’s servants, I remind you of the provision of Article 96(4) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, if, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains in charge of the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without delay, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. 1. National MP Anita Beretic, at a session on 18 February 2005, at 12.03 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 99(3) and Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. For 90, against 123, five out of 218 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. 2. National MP Gordana Komic, at a session on 28 February 2005, at 13.40 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 28. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 94, against 124, three of the 221 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. 3. National MP Bosko Ristic, at a session on 28 February 2005, at 16,10 p.m., pointed to a violation of Articles 156, paragraphs 3 and 46. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. For 16, against 201, three of the 220 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of the only item of the agenda and decision on it, pursuant to Article 95. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Thank you. In the next week, we'll schedule a regular session.
