ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21034	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this time I will report to you as a member of the Board of Justice to elect judges and prosecutors. What I'm saying is that the advice started working more regularly, scheduled regular sessions, and we have opportunities to make elections, so not as before -- 200 and 300 people, but a smaller number. On the other hand, the desire is to ensure the smooth functioning of courts and prosecutors, i.e. not to be a large number of performed functions and so-called V.D. states. In the work of the Council, we used all the data we had. Here, today you have heard, after talking to the Committee of the Justice and Administration, after giving certain arguments which have not been known to the Council, a number of proposals have been withdrawn. For these reasons, I ask that we conduct this debate and conduct elections, taking into account, above all, the dignity of the people who applied. If someone believes that they do not have the conditions to choose, it is the possibility of making an expert opinion that speaks in favour of a possible non-election, but I would pray that we do not get into a situation where people feel hurt, and that they do not have the opportunity to respond to such things, so that in a peaceful and dignified way we do this choice, or not to choose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21035	Thank you. Do any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word comes from MP Marko Krstin, authorised representative of G17 plus, followed by MP Zoran Krasic, authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21036	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, Mr. Chairman, the G17 Group is always pleased to take part in the debate on such points, because we believe it is very important to select, in a timely and necessary number, the holders of judicial functions, given our extremely responsible task to train this branch of government to work in a system of power-sharing, or judicial power. In doing so, the G17 plus parliamentary group always takes into account two basic conditions for selecting judicial holders, which are the results of work and dignity. The G17 plus parliamentary group adheres to all legal postulates in voting and in considering candidates. Accordingly, it is defined for individual candidates. In the course of this debate, the G17 Group of MPs will hear and discuss the proposals and disputes of the other parliamentary groups and identify themselves as individual candidates in line with the fundamentality of what the other parliamentary groups represent. The G17 Group, in particular, wants to stress that in the process of electing judicial officers, particular attention should be paid to the attitude of judicial holders towards the exercise of legal obligations, which is a timely decision on citizens' rights. We believe that not enough powers have been used by the supervisory authorities in courts, the Ministry of Justice, the President of the Court, each under its jurisdiction, in the implementation of the legal deadlines in which citizens' rights are being resolved. The G17 Plus MP believes that it is really necessary for this parliament to find more proposals to reflect our relationship with those holders of judicial functions that do not fulfil their obligations within the legal deadlines. Unfortunately, there are those, but we don't have such suggestions. The G17 Group also advocates that authorised authorities, and I mean the supervisory authorities in courts, the presidents of courts and the minister of justice, each in their own work, should pay greater attention to the control of the deadlines for timely law enforcement. I especially note, as someone working in the area as a lawyer, specifically for the Labour Act, which also has that provision in the past text and this current text, that all cases must start and end within six months. I don't know any case that ended and one working dispute within six months. This should reflect the choice, i.e. the resolution of judges who do not end proceedings within the deadlines given. If the deadline is not realistic, then it needs to be changed, but I don't see that we've changed it; so it's been before and now it's in force. Work disputes last much longer than six months. I would especially like to point out that this assembly, on a proposal from the Government, has passed the Family Law, the Labour Dispute Act, etc., which prescribes further deadlines for the proceedings of judges in these cases. Also, I don't think the judges are doing it within those deadlines. Here I would suggest to the present minister that he pay special attention to this and that at one of the next sessions we have a report on the respect of the deadlines of the holders of the judicial functions, with a proposal for a measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21037	Thank you. The word has the minister of justice Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21038	Little replica, I think my colleague's lawyer may have made a mistake. The Minister of Justice can't put you up with a motion for a resolution, but you know that in 20,000 cases, we've acted and made a proposal to the Personal Council. Why does it not make decisions, but it does not deliver to you, so do not ask the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21039	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21040	At first, I have to realize that here it becomes a rule of conduct when a point is placed on the agenda -- choice and resolution of judicial holders, that we have, in a united debate, approximately 17-18 proposals for decisions. Some suggestions have been waiting for months. I don't know why it's such a style of work that it's accumulated, to get back to some 70-80 figure holders, who become the subject of interest in all these points of the agenda. Of course, it is very difficult for a man to find himself in the great material of these proposals of the High Council of Justice. I am authorised to point out on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party that as regards the termination of functions on a personal request, resolutions because the conditions for retirement are met, etc., there are probably no problems. I think it can be realized that communication is better than before. We had a situation earlier that after a year it was determined that someone had stopped the mandate and that they needed to be resolved. It is now important to make sure that this goes on in good time. But what draws particular attention is the second part of the joint debate, which decides on the election of the president of the courts, judges for individual district courts, public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors. Since the High Council of Justice has a special position on the place and role in this process of elections and resolution, we have discussed in detail on the Committee, informed both the Minister and the President of the Supreme Court what we believe to be normal communication between the High Council of Justice and the National Assembly, that the High Council of Justice cannot call someone who is in accordance with the law and the Constitution and that the High Council of Justice needs to be thick to examine how their proposals do not pass in the National Assembly, some do not pass even unanimously. Instead of taking some lessons from this warning that we have repeatedly delivered from this pay phone, the High Council of Justice is stubbornly moving on. You'll hear at the end of the list of all the candidates we dispute. We dispute their ability, whether they are worthy of performing that function, we also dispute because so far the work proves that they cannot meet the conditions needed in some new places. Can't the one who's a bad judge of the municipal court be a good president of the county court. Can't a judge with the worst results of working in a municipal court be a good judge of the county court. That's clear. Deeply aware of the problem that in some courts people will not report for the President of the Court, not because they might experience any inconvenience for anyone here to call them, as someone is trying to impose on the Committee on Justice and the National Assembly that we have caused the problem and that it is now difficult to secure the fit in court. That's not true. The High Council of Justice in both that judge and that prosecutorial work would have had to reconsider its way of working and how these proposals are coming into play. For the record and what we're going to vote on, I'd like to ask the chairman to register this, because in the day to vote on this, we're going to take care of it. The motion for a decision on the election of judges, number 119-2450/05, where we challenge the proposed candidates for the District Court in Vranja, Marina Angelkovic and Staniš Mihajlovic. We dispute the candidate under regular numbers, I have 13, and he refers to the Indjia Municipal Court, Dragan Filipovic. Decision 119-2449/05 - Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court - we dispute candidate Jovic Ilic, Mr. Minister, who was proposed to the President of the District Court in Leskovac. Judging by how he handles private proceedings, he probably doesn't meet the conditions of being a judge. He likes to sue, as I see it. Then, we disputed in decision 119-2451/05, it is also a decision to elect the president of the courts, the proposed candidate for the court's president in Majdanpek Goran Mladenovic. Then, Zoran Manic, proposed as head of the Pirot Municipal Court, I am sure that all parliamentary groups will vote against. That's where the G17 will back us, I'm sure. That's the judge who released the smugglers, etc. Of course, we also dispute the candidate for the President of the Municipal Court at the Loznica of Borisvoj Simic, I don't think it would be very desirable to hear the arguments on which we are based. You'll probably believe our word. As for the decision to elect Court President No 119-1787, we are joining Zarko Obradovic, who has challenged the candidate for District Court President in Jagodina. We are joining the challenge of candidates for the election of President of the Municipal Court in Svilajnc, Ivana Milosavljevic. She doesn't exactly qualify to be president. Being with some of the local authorities in good relations is her personal problem; and relations between her father and some others in power are also a problem, but the assembly should know that this is the only reason she was proposed for the president of the court. There is no god knows what especially work experience, so it cannot be praised for the results of the work. Then, we challenge the candidate proposed for the President of the Municipal Court in Velika Plana - Renata Paveskovic. Of course, we dispute and join those who dispute the election of candidate Tomislav Bojkovic as the President of the Municipality Court in Smederev. You of the DSS pay attention, since you share your opinion, and you disputed that on the Committee. Then, Zorica Polic, candidate for the President of the Municipal Court in Kula, then, the proposed candidate for the Municipal Court in Indija Stevan Miric. Then, the president of the municipal court in Backo Topoli Lazo Petric; it seems to me that the High Council of Justice has also given up the proposal, I have some conclusion here, I think it is, that's where we agreed. Then, we challenge the candidate for the President of the Municipal Court in the richness of Svetozar Stancevic. Decision No 119-1901 also refers to the election of the president of the courts. I think the High Council of Justice, Minister, has withdrawn the proposal for Lykovac. (Zoran Stojkovic, from the scene: I think so. I think you pulled that off. If you didn't back down then we're arguing, just in case we don't discuss it here. Of course we're contesting a candidate for the President of the Municipal Court in Valjev. I can say right in advance – those who vote for this candidate will have problems with the citizens of Valjev. I don't know which party might vote for that candidate. I know New Serbia won't vote, I know the G17 is thinking, I know the DSS has challenged that candidate. There might be a lot of material to see what's done and how it's done. Furthermore, we also dispute these Batics, I have to use that term, such as Ivana Ristivojevic, proposed for the Municipal Court in Osijek. Bozidar Vasic, proposed for Ub, I think it is also withdrawn. It's been withdrawn, okay. As for the candidate from Bujanovac, I think you pulled that too; Sinisa Stojljkovic, I think you pulled him too. It is Covic's right-hand man in charge of Kosovo and Metohija, and he had very expressed personal interests there and for the protection of personal interests he would be in a coalition with everyone, only that a crumb of authorities would be available to him. Then, we agree and support, they just beat us to the challenge of those from the SPS when it comes to candidate for the President of the Municipal Court in Knjižvac. It's about candidate Dragisa Cvejic. I also inform all parliamentary groups that if they vote for this candidate, your party will have problems in Književec, and big problems. Then, Topola - Borisvoje Zunic, Vrnjačka Banja - Djorđe Zdravkovic, Dragan Zdravkovic - Aleksandrovac, Nebojsa Stojic - candidate for the President of the Municipality Court in Leskovic. You can proceed immediately on the list: Zoran Milosevic, Municipality Court Vlasotince, Zoran Kolev - Dimitrovgrad. We join Zarka Obradovic when it comes to Milica Peric, proposed for the president of the Municipality Court in Pozarevec. I think Mr. Petar Jojic also has documentation, regardless of what the High Council of Justice has been looking into some things, so he informed us it's just stories. It's not just stories, there's a lot of other stuff. Drago Tintor, proposed for the President of the Municipal Court in Shid. Then, Ivan Negic - The Trade Court in Valjevo, Branislav Nikodijević - The Trade Court in Zajecar. We support the proposal to challenge the DSS concerning the Commercial Court in the Kingdom for Zlatan Dimitric. Bozidarka Rajic - The Sombor Trade Court, Dušanka Petakovic - The Trade Court in Sremska Mitrovica, Ana Bin-Marki, we are surprised that someone could have even proposed, the Trade Court in Subotica. Let's move on to the next decision on the election of the President of the Courts 119-2098/05. We are contesting Dragan Stefanovic, who was proposed to the president of the District Court in Vranj. Then, Milena Prvulovic was proposed for a municipal court in Kladov; there is probably the only criterion for family relations, the other one is not. Shemso Hadzic - Tutin, we warned about this in time, I think Mrs Radeta. Ljiljana Škorić-Smiljanić, Municipality Court in Vrsac; then, Radomir Jovanovic - Kursumlija, Dragoslav Hajduković - Ruma Municipality Court; Caja Kojidinović - Municipality Court in Priboj; Ivan Mitrović - Municipality Court in Sapac. And move on to this second section of the DA's office. This is where it came... You'll see, there are so many proposed candidates and so many choices, and it would probably be easier... We're gonna have to check our lists. Since I have finished this part of where I specifically refer to the names and last names, our MPs from the King and Chačka will especially explain why they dispute the proposals relating to the area of these courts. I really must continue to draw attention to a dangerous situation in which our judiciary is located. You bring laws here, and the judges don't even know that new laws have been passed. The items are kept in drawers. If a simple working dispute concerning the rights of employees in this "Kievo" quarry here in Belgrade since 2002 cannot reach the stages of a first-degree verdict, a working dispute that should probably be resolved as quickly as possible, because it is probably followed by some proposal to issue temporary measures, etc., if two-and-a-half years cannot be resolved, and yet a lawyer says to a group of workers who are running the process - be calm, I am in control, it will never be resolved, then those presidents of the courts, or candidates you are proposing for the presidents of the courts, would have to know that they are considering what is timely, what is effective and why citizens report for the protection of some of their rights to a court. If we have proposed candidates for the presidents of the courts who are famous for keeping cases in drawers, then you can imagine what kind of court president it will be. How come he's chasing someone of his own because he's not effective when he can tell him – what you're telling me, it's up to you a month ago, until they chose you as President of the Court, the drawer was full of objects that were waiting for something. Judicial protection must be effective protection. If a car accident damage dispute lasts 11 years in a court of law, say in Novi Sad, if that man can be more judges, that's a real question. I agree that there is no need to discuss a specific matter in terms of measurement, whether the judge has well established a fact, whether he has applied the law well, we are not authorized to do so. There are instances and levels within the judiciary, first-degree and second-degrees, and even audits, which control it, but we probably can't keep quiet if it's a matter of ineffectiveness of the court. I guess we're authorized here to ask why 11 years didn't solve one lawsuit, never came to a first-degree verdict. Why are criminal cases outdated in courts, regardless of whether it's a private lawsuit or an official duty, how is it possible for a criminal case to become obsolete in a court of law? What do we do with that judge, that prosecutor who's aging the case? Does he meet the conditions that he still works? What do we do with a judge who, as an investigative judge, took off a ganger sign to free his friend's son? If all the people in the court know this, how can the High Council of Justice propose such a man to the President of the Court, explain how and what criteria he is guided by. Earlier, the criteria used in the National Assembly were contested when the Committee on Justice proposed decisions. Here, you of the DSS have passed such a law, educated the High Council of Justice, a great personal council. The large personal council does not resolve, does not initiate the resolution procedure. It really raises the question of whether the court is the one that guarantees protection. The president of the court and the court's worker in some dispute; the jurisdiction of the second court, the neighbouring court, and the court's President-in-Office does not come to trial; then the court is ordered to bring and then the police will inform the police that he is not known in that place, and he is the president of the court. These things don't need politics. These things need a solution, and they need a little stick, for God's sake. Of course, we don't want to get the impression that there's nothing wrong with our judiciary. There are people there who do very well their jobs, who are struggling with cases, with pressures; however, less with political pressures, much more with the interesting pressures of individual lawyers and those who pretend to be successful. He's able, if necessary, six times the same suit to file until he gets his judge's number there. Finish it so he can't take it six times to run into his colleague's number. It ends up in the judiciary and it's going to be an epochal thing. There's no better. There's probably something very difficult about that composition of the Great Personal Council and the High Council of Justice. We pointed to some things on the Justice Committee. The president can't hold a press conference. How does the President of the Court first inform the Vranjski Novi, then inform the President of the High Court or the Supreme Court? The one in Kragujevac is holding a press conference. I'll hang up in a minute. We tried not to offend anyone in the Great Personal Council, nor the High Council of Justice, nor any of those whose names we mentioned. So the documentation that points to some of the problems of expertise, dignity and morality of these people that I have called exist. I call on you to support our proposals in the voting day, our opposition, and I know that this coincides with the views of most of the parties represented in the National Assembly, because we had opportunities on the Justice Committee to hear certain comments about some candidates, and also a sort of surprise that someone such a candidate might have suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21041	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, deputy head of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21042	Mr. Minister, Mrs. Shkero, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, here we have been discussing the subject for the third time this year – choice and resolution of the holders of judicial functions. I think the subject is very important because the situation in the judiciary is something that affects every man in this country and gives a picture of the state. I think the National Assembly is doing its job normally. When I say normal, I mean according to the law, and do it publicly and with a lot of arguments. I mention this because the last session of the National Assembly, held at the end of July of this year, passed in a way that challenged a number of proposals by the High Council of Justice. After that, we had a statement by the High Council of Justice with assessments of the extremely unusual for the body, with the intention of disqualifying the Serbian Parliament as a body operating in accordance with the law. It's been three months, since we haven't had this topic on the agenda before, there's not been a chance that I could say anything publicly about this statement, me and some of my colleagues. However, at the meeting of the Committee on Justice of counterpart Krasic and I, we had the opportunity to talk about this statement, but, behold, miracles, although there were several representatives of the funds for public information, and the meeting lasted two hours, none, but no order came up tomorrow in any daily list of the session and the views of MPs related to the statement. In fact, it seems to me that in this statement the High Council of Justice has disqualified itself most, you will see and for what, because unlike us who work publicly, we address fellow Members and Serbia through the media, the High Council of Justice is working in secret, and the question is for whose account. I'm completely convinced, and now I've taken a turn, as an MP, so I've analyzed a little bit how the High Council of Justice works, who it challenges, who it doesn't dispute, and I've come to the conclusion that, unfortunately, some people in the High Council of Justice are part of certain lobbys of interest groups, lobbys of different species, and so do they. It is not normal for the High Council of Justice to issue a press release saying that the decision of the National Assembly... And otherwise, you fellow MPs have been in a position to see that there is no division of the congregation’s majority and the congregation’s minority about individual motions for resolution or appointment because it is voted against the information held, valued quality or not appreciated quality. Anyway, there was no division. The MPs rejected some proposals 100%, and some refused to make a statement. For those of you who don't know, I mean the members of the VSP, and when MPs don't want to make a statement, they've essentially pleaded -- they're not for that candidate. The congregation always declares itself, whether it speaks positively or negatively, whether it is restrained. She always has her attitude. I know a lot of people don't like it, but what are you gonna do? The VSP statement says the National Assembly's decision is a direct pressure on the VSP. Why? Because we were doing something the law prescribes. It says that the Assembly chooses the holders of judicial functions, on a proposal from the High Council of Justice. At this session of the National Assembly, colleagues from the Committee on Justice spoke the most about it. That makes sense. There were more or less strong arguments. Each of the MPs made every effort to put out his views on individual candidates as closely as possible. We also had a representative of the VSP at that session, Mrs. Shkero. I have a stenogram here from that session. None of the claims we made (when I say I don't mean myself, the other fellow MPs) were killed here. There was a place to tell us that the claims made for individuals, since some people are apostrophe here, are not true. We didn't get it here in front of the MPs. At last session of the Justice Committee, I refused to speak to the Committee, I said I would speak publicly, that Serbia would hear, because I have no reason to be ashamed or afraid of any of my words. We speak publicly. We were here in a situation where the representative of the VSP would say no words – colleague Obradovic, colleague Krasic, colleague and colleague, you are wrong, that is not true, we will check, we will determine, or so on. No, there has been a statement where we as the National Assembly have been disaved, marked, given the epithets that the National Assembly doesn't deserve, besides the claim that the work of the National Assembly is a direct pressure on the VSP. Why? Because not all the shots have passed or someone who was interested in the VSP? It is claimed that it has not been challenged by any arguments raised by the MPs. A stenogram of the National Assembly is available to all, so I can look at it and see if it has been reasoned or not. He says, "The political trade is at work, with the aim of choosing their own staff and exerting influence on the judiciary." What are the congregation staffs, what are party personnel? Is someone I challenge on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, or do we possess information from the field that this man, in our opinion, is not doing a good job? Is it the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to challenge or select party personnel, or is that an expression of the will of the people? We are MPs elected by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, on the proposal of the political parties we represent. It is the will of the people to the next Assembly, to the next elections, to the next MPs. Or we could change the law and let the High Council of Justice do everything on our own. Maybe you'd be happy then. No, you wouldn't. Maybe you'd be happy, maybe there wouldn't be any such announcements at the time. What are party personnel, what are congregation personnel? After the VSP, we have no right to discuss this matter at all. We should simply say that the VSP has suggested and let us choose. Remember the salve of criticisms that were at the beginning of the year, when the High Council of Justice established individual candidates for judges, etc. Is this only true when certain personnel are not chosen to give criticism to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? The VSP claim is very surprising to me personally, that we are misusing our rights. Be careful, the National Assembly is misusing the right by contesting individual candidates proposed by the VSP! You'll see after what may seem to be the abuse of rights, but by the High Council of Justice. And it can be led under the abuse of rights. Is it in the law that regulates the status of the High Council of Justice that the High Council of Justice may not choose any of the candidates? He's not standing, but he's doing it. Is that what VSP does for the abuse of rights? He can, but he doesn't have to. If five candidates report to one contest, and the VSP estimates that none of them are good, then re-commit the competition, isn't that possible abuse of rights? Yes, it is. Why? Because it extends V.D. The situation and someone there is working, someone is running there, and five candidates are not meeting the criteria of the High Council of Justice, and in the meantime, a request for resolution of some of these judges who have applied. I'll talk about it later. Three candidates are mentioned here: President of First, Second and Higher Trade Court. Clearly, the High Council of Justice was most distracted by what challenged the candidates. Of course they're the best, for God's sakes, and there are no better ones in Serbia. Well, they're the best, and they're not chosen. I was talking about a candidate for the second court president, counterpart Krasic, about the other two candidates. I haven't heard a word here that I'm challenged. I am in the media, but I'm not counting on the media, I'm counting on faces like this, so if anyone has arguments, let them come out for this pay phone and say it's not true. I am a candidate for the Second Court of Justice very taxingly cited what he is doing, and it should not be as president of the court that he does, but the question is whether it is the job of the President of the Court, what he is doing to express his party bias, not party bias, but to show animosity towards the SPS. It's my right. I've also set a concrete example. If the President of the Court can allow himself to go and make a copy of the property, then it says enough how much he cares about some of the assets of the SPS as soon as possible to change the owner. He can, and he doesn't have to, but he's saying enough. There are other cases. I've taxed everything, as well as my other colleagues. We've touched something, we've definitely disrupted some interest, let's challenge the personnel solutions. That's the problem. It's been determined here that it's inadmissible pressure on the judicial authority. Watch out, the National Assembly is doing something the law prescribes, which is pressure on judicial authority! The latest findings say: "The harmful consequences of such practice can be applied not only to the judicial authority, but also to the international reputation of the state in the realization of commitments undertaken." Be careful, because the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is applying the law, because it is publicly addressed both to the judiciary and to the citizens of Serbia, it can undermine the reputation. By the way, it is a public secret that individual members of the High Council of Justice lobby for individual candidates from Serbia. It is precisely known who the central part of Serbia, Shumadi, is lobbying through which the northern part of Serbia is lobbying. We are approached by candidates for judges and say – just see if someone will challenge us, I provided at the High Council of Justice to pass, he told me. Now I need you in the National Assembly to close our eyes in front of that fact, pretend like it doesn't exist, and VSP hits our pucks. Harmful consequences, morals? Did the High Council of Justice take care of his conduct? I think the VSP in the last few months has annulled several competitions and called new ones, based on its belief that candidates are not good quality. It's a relative thing. Through the analysis of those chosen, I have found that many of those chosen are far worse than those who have been challenged and have not been proposed by the High Council of Justice. Some people in the High Council of Justice actually fear that something will change. The DOS, and I have often mentioned it, must now, from 2001 to mid-2002, change the 150 presidents of the 165 courts. People, 150 presidents of courts; that's one cleanup. I've never heard anyone call the team and say, "Listen, people, it's impossible that everyone's mature for a shift." As for the way some were elected, so here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we talked about it several times. So for the judges and the presidents of the courts were elected, believe it or not, candidates who had a length of 9, 10 and 11 years, with an average of 6,33, 6,54, 6,66 and 6,88. At the same session, a choice was made for the judge and the president of the court, although it was not normally arranged, but no one's head hurts. Some of these judges, meanwhile, addressed the High Council of Justice with extensive documentation on how they were illegally removed and no one reacted, or at least said – it is not my jurisdiction, I send it further. No one reacted to say they were illegally elected four years ago. Why? It's a match for someone. The point is personal choice, not the law, because this statement wouldn't have been if these three people had been elected. There are now some moral moments, what the High Council of Justice takes as criteria for selecting individual members. The criteria exist, I own them and as a member of the Justice Committee, however, it is relatively, it goes from case to case. Sometimes the opinion of the court's college is the most measured, okay, it's logical. The profession should give its opinion and that candidate should absolutely have the advantage and if such a candidate challenges the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, then, as we say, we can ask why. The members of the High Council of Justice may not have the information that we possess, but there is something that is astounding to me: this statement by the High Council of Justice actually tells me that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is not respected, that the legislative body of this state is not respected; therefore, that the National Assembly is divided into epithets that it does not deserve. It's more tragic that this is done by the High Council of Justice, a body well imagined, but obviously with this personal composition it doesn't work right. I must say, it is a fantastic surprise to me that this will of the National Assembly does not respect Mrs. Shkero, and we have chosen her as President of the Supreme Court, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It was the will of the citizens. Now that we have problems with the High Council of Justice, for the choice, that will is not respected. I'm not interested in any personal solution at all, if I didn't mention it, but isn't disrespecting the people's will the fact that a senior trade court candidate has been challenged, he hasn't been elected, and for three months now Mrs. Shkero hasn't appointed a new V.D. The president. What are you waiting for? Three months ago, the National Assembly challenged the election of this candidate, Mrs. Shkero, and she has not named V.D. until today. President of the Senior Trade Court, therefore, a man who is V.D. He didn't pass for president, he doesn't mind sitting in the High Council of Justice and deciding about others, but for three months, that will of the Assembly stands, and Mrs. Shkero doesn't mind. Don't convince me of my independence, my independence, etc. That doesn't stand. So if the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is not respected then I don't know what we're talking about here. What, it was hard to name a new V.D. The president of the High Court of Commerce, and there are 10, 15, 20, 30 or 50, which I know, I'm not interested in at all. It was hard to name a new V.D. The president; he didn't, and why not, we'll see about that. Whether to wait for a new choice, a new challenge, a new cancellation of the competition, and set a condition for a third contest, or someone should be selected. And it will be learned, Serbia is a small space, everything is known sooner or later, but for me it is a violation of the will of the National Assembly and there is no excuse, it is an inaction. What are the adverse consequences of that, can anyone explain it to me? Ignoring the will of the people and the will of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, what, for one man, V.D. The president of one court? There must be some reason, because three months have passed since the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and that is ignoring the will of citizens and that is something that is a harmful consequence. Examples that we have received as MPs, at least I, show that there are more harmful consequences in the judiciary, by doing or by inaction with the High Council of Justice. So, six or seven contests have been canceled, and why? People didn't respond, what, characteristics, quality. But if you'll excuse me, who's interested in a job, he answers the contest, and who's not interested, what for, that's life. You know, who doesn't have one, without it, you can. That's what practice showed. Does the High Council of Justice create a space for selecting similar personnel and for whom they are similar? What is, among the five candidates for one court there is no good, among the three there is no good, and then the cancellation is done, and a new competition is being held, and a re-election procedure is being launched. I'll talk about that re-election and other things when I use them on behalf of the parliamentary group, if I may... (President: No, you are now in the time you used, you have after... ) Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and on these other matters, I will when I use the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21043	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary group, want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Zoran Krasic has one correction, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21044	I said at first that mistakes were possible. In total, we have 101 names and last names and, of course, I made a mistake in making these statements. I confused Svetlana Lazarevic and Ljiljana Škorić-Smiljanić and everything I said earlier, and I later saw that it was Ljiljana Škorić-Smiljanić. So, since it is Ljiljana Skorić-Smiljanic, we do not dispute the proposal. I ask you, in that sense, to rewrite what I just brought out of this pay phone, because I was practically talking about candidate Svetlana Lazarevic, who is now the President of the Court and for your information, she is consecrating herself to the candidates who have applied and seduced some of her order in that court. So it's a big risk in the judiciary to apply for the president of the court. By the time I got out, I apologize to the chairman, take a look at the text of the contest when you publish. At some points, you have something that's irregular, a little deviating from the provisions of the Judges Act. This variant of how someone can be elected president of a court who's not a judge is excess in the text of a competition and creates confusion, so we're getting word from people who aren't judges at a competition for the President of the Court. So, the text of the competition is why some people appear.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21045	Thank you, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a written word application, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of SRS, DSS and SPS. The People's Messenger Zoran Tanasijević has the word, and let the People's Messenger Alexander Vukic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21046	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I dispute the motion for candidates to elect the President of the Municipal Court in Ljig, but given the documentation I have at my disposal, I believe there may be damage at the expense of the Ministry and perhaps even the state, so that I will give full documentation to the High Council of Justice and to all MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21047	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Vukic, and let MP Zarko Obradovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21048	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, every time we plead and when we talk about the choice and resolution of the holders of judicial functions, we are all in the National Assembly in a rather unpleasant and inexplicable situation. The fact is that we usually talk about people we don't know about and whose work we don't know enough, because I don't know how different political parties can know about each other whether it's good or not, except for those who are directly involved in certain procedures concerning political parties or individuals from political parties. I know it's always the easiest thing for the opposition to say - a million objections we have, nothing good, just the mafia government in the judiciary. And there is that, simply because you always have at least half the people who are unhappy, those who are in litigation disputes, so whoever loses is unhappy, and not to say that everyone who has been convicted in criminal proceedings is unhappy and thinks that the court or the mafia is behind that verdict and I don't know what it is. So it's one of the hardest professions. Never in life is anyone satisfied with what the judge told him in a sentence of judgment. These people are then struck and ordinary people, and the media and us here in the parliamentary benches. That's why I don't want to be part of those who are going to speak one general against people who perform judicial functions. Most of them, I don't know. You know, I'm being led against, I mean, about fifty procedures of a different kind. As soon as I get up, I go to the Court of Justice first, then I come home and shave and go to work. But I really can't say that these people are incorrect. They only have to judge, somewhere for me, somewhere against me, I don't know how, it doesn't matter, but I know they're exposed to terrible pressures. But it is not good for those who represent them, and now I am moving on to the other side of the medal, to treat the People's MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in a blatant way. It is not good for the president of Serbia's Supreme Court, the esteemed Mrs. Shkero, to say -- everyone is putting pressure on the judiciary, so she also mentioned MPs, among other things, to be published by the media, especially those insisted on by Mrs. Shkero. It would be better if they were warned of stopping the pressure on the judiciary, because some of the rulings in this country were made by the most direct and unskilled media pressure, and that is what B92 does the most. They're doing some other TV. When they open that topic, everyone else attaches, I guess they don't count on being "in" with some Delgado, I think that's what's called a man from the American embassy who controls all procedures. (Vida Petrovic-Skero: I don't know.) I know, it's the one who comes to the trial, and imagine the journalists who come and ask – Mr. Delgado, what do you think of this verdict. It was Sashi Cvetan's verdict for crimes in Kosovo and Metohija. I didn't realize what that Delgado was talking about. They asked Natasha Kandic and Delgad. I don't understand, the judge has reached a verdict, there are regular legal medicines, extraordinary legal medicines, I don't know if in a first degree or second degree procedure, it doesn't matter, but is it an independent judiciary in Serbia? He says - I am satisfied with the verdict, this is a good move by the Serbian state. Who are you kidding? What are we talking about here? I'm starting again, you can tell -- yes, that's reality, and I'll say -- great, if that's the reality, then tell the people that there's no independent justice in this country, there's no independent prosecutions. Why? Because it's a reality. Tell the people that everything that happens in this country is reality, anything that happens is reality. Let all of you have a slogan for the upcoming election campaigns - be what must be. It's your only unique political slogan, and nothing else, we haven't heard a single moment. Our judiciary is obviously not independent, especially these most significant cases of political reckoning. Every day they call me something and ask me if you've been to Dragoljub Milanovic's, and I tell them I have. I was a year or two ago, though. I haven't been in a long time, but now I'm gonna go out of spite, think about whether it's Sunday or next week, seeing as they don't have better things to do, so they think they can forbid it. I'm just gonna go now and get pissed off by the B92 guys, so maybe they'll write on the poster that I did it. There are a lot of things in this country, and that's not the biggest problem. Condemning someone, punishing him, not knowing why or how, and asking them what it says in the sentence of judgment, they have no idea, and the argument is totally idiotic, it's said – we don't have a very good case, because it burned down on October 5th in those events, but it doesn't matter, I won't interfere with the verdict because it's not my job. What I'm saying is that no one in this country in this country is more than a single medium leading to a lawsuit against the judiciary, against the judges, just because they want their political hideouts to the end. You'd do well to point them out, Mrs. Shkero, not to hold a letter on that matter to the MPs. The MPs have the right to say whatever they want and whatever they want from this pay phone, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You can't, you can't, you can't forbid them, you can't, you can't blame them. They have their political responsibility to the citizens of Serbia and in any subsequent elections, it is the citizens of Serbia who decide whether these people have done their job well and properly, honorably or unfairly. They're talking about some posters here. Yesterday I came out here, I see three things beautiful, friends inform me that these geniuses from the DS have come up with something against me. I see two, pretty, third, and then I find out that the bodyguard's out of security, with that Tarzan, and some lady's chasing him with an umbrella here around this pillar. I don't know what it was about, I come up and say, "Don't, ma'am, please, they're powerful Democrats, they're brave, don't go after them, who the fuck pleases you?" But I saw one grammatical irregularity, and I immediately realized it was a Shutanian. He's a completely illiterate man. Here's my press witness here as long as you want. Before I went out and saw it, I said – if there is a logical and grammatical mistake, it must have been the author of the Sutanovac, and I was right. But with these jokes, I want to ask a question – is there anything better to do in this country? Yesterday, they were to prepare themselves for the curatorial evening, to gather the people who would give money to the temple of St. Sava. They called on very honest people and violent thieves, and they all gathered about 100,000 euros together. Why didn't they raise millions, how many did some get robbed, and how many could, because they earned them honestly, give it to them? Why didn't they deal with Kosovo and Metohija? They don't know what they're going to do, they're scared of the Serbian Radical Party, but what's wrong with them is there. As far as the judiciary is concerned, we'll always have problems in the judiciary and it's not just today's problem. We had this problem, incomparably more pronounced and with much greater political pressures, in 2001 and 2002, especially in the prosecutions that had nothing to do with this, where after one call from Djindjic's office, charges of the worst nonsense were filed, and the biggest thieves, criminals and murderers became witnesses of their associates, they became prominent citizens who salted our minds that some others had killed a little more than them, after they had killed about 10 people somewhere, and the other one killed about 12 or 13, so the one who killed 10 people was a prominent citizen because he helped the Democratic Party and carried money. That's the kind of justice we've had. In any case, we have individual objections, which were presented by the authorised representative of our parliamentary group, Zoran Krasic, in his opening statement. I'm sure the people we choose will be better people, there won't be a lot of mistakes. I am convinced that the greatest number of these people do their duty honorably, that they are honest and responsible people, and that their hard work, in accordance with the judicial belief, breaks in accordance with the law. And where that is not the case, where the mob is doing it, and especially through mob lawyers who used to work at the Serbian Supreme Court, so when a legal remedy comes out of their office on a first-degree verdict, then their colleagues in the Serbian Supreme Court are reducing penalties on certain issues of pure insolence, because this one gives them a thousand, two thousand euros. I have proof of that, I just don't have proof where they took the money. It's been happening recently. So where the clean objects are, where the murderers are concerned, and the worst possible murderers, where the judge brings the highest sentence in the first-degree procedure, whether it's a minor or a minor, if it came from his former Serbian Supreme Court colleague, from his bandit law firm, he's going to lower that verdict because he came up with it. The reasons for the argument are idiotic, isn't that right, Jojic? They were really idiotic. I couldn't believe it, if it wasn't tragic, I'd be laughing at it literally. I'm ready for every one of those people who signed it, who took part in that council, five of them, to say that they idiotically explained and wrote it. We all know why they did it. Don't be silly so nobody knows what it's about. Thank you, I'm sure we'll be different. We ask all the ladies, ladies, not to go after the umbrella bodyguards of the Democratic Party, because their safety would be compromised, then they would cry again and cry on TV as some people attack them, maybe accuse the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21049	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic. Let MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21050	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To continue where I left off before - on the way the High Council of Justice works, because I think this is a statement issued and their attempt to dissuade the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia something unheard of and speaks enough about what the High Council of Justice thinks about itself and about the positivity it shows towards the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I mentioned the possible consequences of the conduct and inaction of the High Council of Justice. The High Judicial Council, working over the past few months, has had several times a situation not to elect a few court presidents, I think six or seven. Although there were two, three, five candidates per competition, the High Council of Justice estimated that none of them were good enough to be president of the court, which can and does not have to be true. I have already said that some who have been elected in the previous period have been proposed by the High Council of Justice, according to the characteristics below those who have been challenged. I refer to this for one particular reason: one of the judges who contacted the SPS group pointed to a very interesting situation concerning the election. It's about Mrs Svetlana Đuricic, the director of legal science, who is running for the head of the District Court in Sremska Mitrovica. Namely, the High Council of Justice has called a competition, several candidates have appeared, and the High Council of Justice has found that none of the proposed candidates are satisfied to be proposed for the president of the court. Then a second contest was called. When the second contest was called, a procedure for the resolution of the District Court judges was followed, a procedure signed by Mrs Vida Petrovic-Skero. In this decision to initiate the procedure, it is said that it did not work in a legal manner, that it was a failure to comply with the deadlines for handling in a number of criminal cases which it had received in the second instance of criminal proceedings, both in the conduct of proceedings and in the case of written decision-making. Pursuant to Article 393(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Code of Criminal Procedure shall be bound by the second-degree court to deliver its decision with the files to the Court of First Instance no later than four months, and if the accused is in custody no later than three months after the date of receipt of the files. Due to the untimely decision-making by Judge Svetlana Đuričić, the District Court in Sremska Mitrovica, as second-degree, was unable to deliver the files of the first-degree court in those cases within the prescribed deadline. Why is this interesting? It is a fantastic coincidence that the procedure for the resolution is in motion when a woman comes next time as a candidate for the president of the court. It's a fantastic coincidence, which, for me personally, can't be a coincidence. Secondly, from the documentation Mrs Đuricic provided to me, it does not necessarily mean that it is correct, but I am telling you, it may be the subject of the verification, the allegations which have been made in this decision to initiate the discharge procedure do not stand. Mrs. Djuric is denying it. I'll read it, she delivered it to me, and I gave it to you. She will, of course, speak to the people of the judiciary to protect her rights and her face. She says – I point out that the contested cases mentioned in 2002 and 2003 with the date of admission to court, and you can't see when she was in charge as a judge, because the cases were not all the time with me, i.e. Mrs. Djuric, they've already been standing with other judges. She mentions names here, in this case they don't matter, mentions two judges. He says I got the same in December 2004. Due to the stand of the case and other judges, there has been absolute obsolescence of criminal prosecution in some cases, but this cannot be attributed to her in guilt, argues Mrs Đuricic, but is the reason for the Court's burden on cases and in insufficient numbers of judges and there is no schedule of cases by judges, which is primarily the responsibility of the President of the Court. When it comes to untimely making a court decision, that, according to what's standing here, and that's part of this solution signed by Mrs. Shkero, it absolutely doesn't stand. Looks like Mrs. Skero wasn't looking at this at speed. I didn't hate to look at all 40 items, so I'll tell you: 22/02, date 11. 5th date of expedition 19. 5, 4 days; 42/02, 1. 6 - 2. 6, one day; 62/02, 9. 3 - 10. 3, one day; 84/02, 27. 6 - 1. 7, four days; 96/02, 17. 2 - 18. 2. 2005, one day; 102/02, 2. 2. 2005 - 3. 2. 2005, one day; 128/02, 28. 3. 2005 - 29. 3. 2005, one day; 146/02, 12. 4 - 12. 4, same day; 147/02, 4. 2. 2005 - 7.2. 2005, one day. Let me not continue reading these items, just mention: one day, one day, one day, one day, seven days, three days, two days, one day, one day, five days, one day, one day, two days, one day, one day, one day, one day, one day, three days, the same day, two days, the same day, one day, three days, the same day, one day, three days, one day, one day, the same day, the same day, the same day, the same day, five days, three days. Here, black on white, signed by Mrs. Vida Petrovic-Skero. None of these allegations about the untimely writing of a decision stand. What do we do now? A woman should be punished and punished, for it is essential that some be punished, and some be not punished. That's the intensity of some people in the judiciary since October 5th, so here we go. One can do anything, the other can't do anything. For one law, the other law does not apply. One is allowed to tell what they want, to do in the judiciary, the other can't do anything. I felt it was my moral obligation to inform the National Assembly as an MP of the National Assembly of this, because I say, it can't be that the second time a woman... Otherwise, she's not alone, there's another lady, I think Bosiljcic, if I read it correctly, and she's also the subject of a resolution procedure, and she was also a candidate for the head of the District Court in Sremska Mitrovica. Otherwise, from the data we've received, if these criteria were applied to other judges, none of them could work, but it's interesting against these two to initiate a resolution procedure. If you look at the data, none of them can work, but the criteria can stretch, so as they say most of them will, or as they say, force above law. I'm not saying this by chance, I realized that what we are doing as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and we are individual MPs for individual judges is the only way, but literally the only way to preserve the face, if I can't save my job, because this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been seen as the only place where their problem can be brought out and made public. We appear as the only dam with certain interest circles that exist in the judiciary. This shit that exists and pretends to be chaos, that it can't work, that it needs to let go of independence, independence of the judiciary, etc., it's done very consciously so that some people won't be moved. If the number of members of the families of individual judges were combed, prosecutors working in the judiciary, there would be data, which, of course, is the constitutional right of every man to be able to do any job he wants, but there would be a lot of data that indicate or may be part of a particular scheme. One can be anything, and the other can't be anything. I felt obliged to take this out for Mrs. Djuric, and we'll see how it goes. According to the information I have, no judge in that court would be able to pass, or all should be subject to discharge proceedings. As a MP and a member of the Justice Committee, I have received plenty of documentation where some people complain about the work of certain courts, the work of judges, and there are cases that judgments are not written by who knows how many months, one year, two years and no one's head hurts. Why? Because he doesn't apply for the president of the court. In the meantime, the V.D. is extended. status. They tried to discredit Mrs. Djuric in another way. If anyone wants to, I'll talk about it. I think it's below the level to mention it. How much animosity there is to her and that even the Ministry of Finance refused to transfer her funds from the Ministry of Justice to create a doctoral dissertation on the grounds that she is dealing with a business that is not worthy of a judge, which is, of course, a story. But in this Serbia, it seems to be the strongest argument. What is done in the judiciary, what is the situation in the judiciary, or in the work of the judiciary, rather, I will also mention to you one example of the SAA. In fact, we filed a lawsuit almost three years ago against the municipality of New Belgrade, where they wanted to move us out of the premises. The case stood, stood, stood, we, what shall, shall address the Ministry of Justice to see, within its jurisdiction, how things stand and receive a letter from the Ministry of Justice, that is, by letter of the Ministry of Justice, the letter of the President of the Fourth Municipal Court, which presents the reasons for the non-announcement of the case in our lawsuit against the Municipality of Novi Belgrade to delete the registration of the property of the building in which the Municipal Committee of the City of Novi Belgrade is located. The letter also found the only reason that the case was brought to the attention of the president of the same court, which was resolved by the Novi Belgrade Municipality for the purpose of eviction of the SPS from those premises. This insight into the case lasted from 26 December 2002 to 9 May 2005, when an order was issued for its urgent appointment. The insight into a two-and-a-half-year case is of course extremely unusual, and it is contrary to all the rules of conduct in court. We have come to the conclusion that when this is done and the judge appreciates the decisions in the case in which he has dealt with and the consequences that we as an SPS have suffered, and we are not given the legal right to determine the facts and possibly make a favourable or unfavourable decision on that basis. But the point is to do something. There is a suspicion that the detention of the case is not a mere negligence, but a deliberate obstruction in the case under our complaint, that the decision taken by her would be carried out in the executive procedure. That's how you do it, because, unfortunately, you can. It's the judiciary. I have to mention here, as part of the situation in the judiciary, and one case I mentioned last time, so I think it's good to mention it this time, because it's illustrating how the judiciary treats the SPS members. Since I used my name last time, I'm going to. It is about Dr Bozidar Jelic, who was assistant minister of education in the SPS government and who was accused of abuse of the official position of non-intentional spending of funds because he approved as assistant minister to buy three vehicles for the needs of a certain portfolio in the ministry, a portfolio for student standard, and besides for spending on gas funds, the money that is allocated to fuel. The amount, if memory serves me well, is about 700,000 dinars. The dispute is flowing, the prosecutor is doing his job, judges are doing their job, and meanwhile the resolution minister, the current one, completely outside of this story, outside the judiciary, writes that it was done in accordance with the rules in the ministry, with decisions and that the budget is not damaged. So, what you're going to do, since it's falling into the water now, is this other thing -- that 700,000 dinars are spent on fuel, or that money has been transferred to the health association. One side of the story, which only the minister can do, and then the current minister doesn't matter, because he publicly gave up the SPS, so there's no need to be touched by it anymore, because here the point is only the SPS and then it's put on Dr. Bozidar Jelic's soul. Man, what he's going to see is that there's nowhere to go, the judiciary is the judiciary, not by accident, but by purpose, with the help of good people, it's going to come into possession that the DOS minister, Mr. Gašo Knezevic, on the same basis, and now as authorized, has transferred 10 million dinars to the PDO. This one's like 10 million, this 700 grand. Now, Mr. Jelicic, looking for justice - I must read this because it is very illustrating this situation, so you will understand why, as the judiciary treats the SPS members, and as others do - it submitted a request to the Minister of Finance, Bozidar Djelic, for the purpose of sending a budget inspection to the Ministry of Education, for the purpose of checking non-intentional spending of funds and determining abuses. It is the same procedure, the same part on which Djelic filed criminal charges against Mr Jelic. The result is that Mr Djelic is not doing anything, even found to be missing. A request has disappeared in the ministry that otherwise was impeccable, at least according to Djelic's claims! Then on September 22nd, 2003, Jelic renewed his request to the Ministry of Finance for a budget inspection at the Ministry of Education and Sports. The result is a delay and a promise without concrete applications. Jelic submits a criminal complaint on 17 October 2003 to the Second Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office against Djelic, the prosecutor - a certain lady, for concealing the crime and the perpetrator of the crime, as well as for violating Article 60. Serbia's criminal law, which concerns political discrimination. Of course, nothing was done. In the service of reception, he was told that nothing would be done, because they had no idea that they would do so, because the political climate is such that there is no need to do anything against the Prince. He filed a criminal complaint on 21 November 2002 with the Second Municipal Prosecutor's Office against Gosa Knezevic and the ministry's secretary for the same crime for which the second municipal prosecutor also launched an investigation against him. So, same crime, same prosecution filed a report. The public prosecutor and the deputies who worked on the criminal charges informed Mr. Jelic that there is no reasonable doubt that the accused committed that crime or any other crime. They, of course, did not find it appropriate to conduct basic investigations. In October 2003, Jelic then referred a personal request to the public prosecutor, insisting that an investigation be carried out against Knezevic and the secretary, stressing that non-implementation of the same means discrimination on a political basis and violation of Article 60. The criminal law of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, this request has been ignored. This is about the fact that in the same criminal-law situation, it's been treated completely differently. The prosecution did not do what the law required it to do: or against Mr. Jelic must be suspended or the two people must be prosecuted. But that's the situation in Serbia. For those who do not want to hear and see it, I repeat by who knows which time the 150 president of the courts was replaced by mid-2002, of 165, and prosecutors and deputies were appointed at the time of the emergency when the law was amended and when the government was given the opportunity to appoint prosecutors. Then, unfortunately, we have a structure that works as it pleases, that is, by party principle. It's not the only example, it's a lot of them, but on this case, I wanted to show what it looks like in practice and how the SPS members are scrawny and stuff. Otherwise, when it comes to these double arches that appear to the judiciary, so sometimes it reacts, sometimes it does not respond, I cannot without mentioning this time the reaction of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Tadic, a month ago and a few days ago, when he sought, and otherwise there is nothing in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia about his authority regarding these demands, from the republican prosecutor to examine whether there was illegality in withdrawing the indictment against Mark Milosevic. Mr. President of Serbia tells the prosecutor that a republican prosecutor should, in accordance with his responsibilities, be more careful to examine whether there was an illegality etc. So the public got upset because the D.A. did it right. The public was not upset, unless, of course, they are referring to certain daily papers and certain media that, as part of their policy, have the persecution of Socialists, the persecution of the Milosevic family, the president of Milosevic and members of his family, but was upset by the Democratic Party. Boris Tadic asked for this from the republic's prosecutor, and after a few days, the Democratic Party for the Change of Ministers of Justice took action with a similar explanation, so they collected signatures, arrived in the Assembly and was the subject of a declaration by the National Assembly. This says, firstly, that Mr Tadic is not acting as president of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but as president of the Democratic Party, each time, which is unworthy of one such public function, and secondly, that no one has found it appropriate to say – Mr Tadic, what you are doing is not a description of your affairs under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Another example is when he reported for Mr Batic and his detention, when he asked the government to examine it in more detail, etc. He practically pressured the judiciary to let Batic go. He well noted Mr. Tirnanic in his column in a daily list that this same Mr. Tadic had not said a word two or three years before, nor had he made a public announcement when 12 thousand people at the time of "Sablje" were the subject of the shading of the state. Democrats talk all the time – you are against the fight against crime. On the contrary, but it is definitely now clear that the introduction of a state of emergency has served as an opportunity for the DS to deal with its political inexperiences. I find this interesting about Marko Milosevic, Mrs. Vida yesterday gave an interview on the list of "Today"; on the question of journalists -- you said that the issue of a warrant for Marko Milosevic casts a shadow on the judiciary, Mrs. Shkero says -- the people thinks so. The President of the Supreme Court says that's what the people think. What people? I think the people would be interested in seeing who the DOS leaders were in Schiller, who was hanging out with the Zemun clan, who had acquired an enormous wealth by doing only opposition work. They don't know what they want from the property they own. The people are interested in what happens to criminal charges against those people who, at the age of 30, have completed or failed college, without years of employment, acquired assets estimated at several million euros. The people would like to know what's wrong with that. The people would like to know how privatisation of Serbia's most extensive part of business space has been done. This is Mrs. Shkero very wisely transferring the matter to the D.A.'s office so decided and the judiciary has nothing to do with it. As long as there's a way of acting like this, we won't be in a situation, as a society, to take a step forward, because that story that people think is a story for little children. Certain circles, through the media, come public with topics that should be on the agenda, and then appear as conceits and say that the people are looking for, the public writes about it. I'm sorry that because of the shortness of time, I'm not in a position to point out to you the abundance of events, i.e. actions by individual authorities in the judiciary, where there are absolutely double arches. There's a law for someone, and it doesn't apply to someone else. Members of the SPS are not only chicanated, but they are not given the opportunity to exercise fundamental legal rights, and even when they get a verdict, that verdict cannot be carried out because within the judiciary, the judiciary and the prosecution there are certain structures, not all but there are structures that absolutely do not want to implement those decisions, or they do nothing to interfere with their party heads, because they are known to have been elected at DOS time, on the proposal of the DOS Staff Committee. There is also extensive documentation on candidates discussed by the Republika Srpska Assembly. On this occasion, I will only challenge the candidate for the President of the Municipal Court in Negotin. The rest was left by colleagues who spoke before me. I don't think as a state and a society, we're gonna take one step forward or bring justice and justice closer, unless we respect the law, the way it is, until it changes. I'm saying this because I'm going back to the beginning of the whole story from today. The High Justice Council should do its job, the Assembly will do its job. We do our job in public, we may be wrong, but we do it in public. The High Justice Council is working in its own way and we have no record of that. And when we look for them, they're very modest. I have definitely concluded that as the National Assembly, we have touched the hornet nests, some circles in the judiciary, some interests, which kind of interests, we will see, as soon as the High Council of Justice has dared to send a statement to the public that offends the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the MPs doing the legally prescribed work.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21051	The Messenger of the people, Miroslav Nedeljković, has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21052	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I will challenge the proposal to elect the two judges of the District Court in Cačka, and that is Mrs Aleksandr Vukevic and Milos Pavlovic. I'll give you a brief explanation. Absolutely behind this dispute are no political and party motives. I will try to make those arguments that will be completely understandable to the MPs. As for Mr. Aleksandar Vucicevic, this National Assembly elected him president of the Cacca Municipal Court in July of this year. There was one general assessment that the situation in the municipal court in Chačka was very bad, that it must be dealt with urgently. For Mr. Vukevic, there's a reason that it's a man who can do it. In a few months, did Mr. Vukevic manage to sort out the situation at the Municipal Court in Cačka, or did he realize that he couldn't do it, or was he surprised to have another step in the career of this formal advance in the service, but I'm surprised that the VSP didn't take that into account. So, it is important to tell Mr. Vucicevic that his choice for President of the Municipal Court in Cačka should be taken seriously, that he is entrusted with a responsible function and that he warms up his chair nicely and settles down in that place and shows whether he is truly worthy of doing that function. As for candidate Milos Pavlovic, he was dismissed two years ago from the seat of the municipal court president in Cačka, also because of the poor situation in the municipal court. I don't see how a candidate who's been relieved of the office of President of the District Court can now be proposed as judge of the district court. Otherwise, the reasons why it was resolved are: poor condition in the municipal court, at the time, numerous irregularities in work, non-compliance with norms, poor quality of work. Another crackdown: In 2000, at the time of the election campaign, as head of the municipal court, he pressured all the judges of the court to sign the election list for the then ruling party. By the way, all the judges have succumbed to that pressure, except for three judges. That can be easily checked. I think even after this brief explanation for the MPs would be an easy choice when voted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21053	The People's Messenger Verica Radet has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21054	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with the permission of the High Council of Justice, I will still do the work of the MP today. That means I'm going to comment on certain proposals from the High Council of Justice, that I'm going to say some things at all about the judiciary, regardless of the scandalous statement that some colleagues here have been talking about since 7 September 2005. I just need one piece of that press release to read, so the public can hear again how the VSP treats the MPs. A press release The High Council of Justice issued a report here on "the recent election of 17 presidents of the courts who came as a proposal from the High Council of Justice to the MPs". The statement said "The High Council of Justice does not dispute the right of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia not to carry out the selection of proposed candidates. It is the right of MPs to, esteeming the reasons of the High Council of Justice for the expertise and dignity of the proposed candidates, not to execute their choice. However, no one, not even the National Assembly, can abuse the right that belongs to him under the law. The National Assembly misused the right to elect judicial officials, for it refused, without any reasonable reason, to elect nearly a third of the candidates proposed. "This is truly amazing, that even if it was the High Council of Justice, someone dared to speak this way about the National Assembly and the abuse of the rights of the MPs. First, it is amazing that that is how judges can think, who should probably know that MPs and the Constitution are protected, in the sense that they can say what they think and not be responsible for what they say in the function of MPs in the assembly session. What is the real reason why this statement was issued is in the second part of the statement, where it is said, "In this respect, it is a drastic example of the non-election of the President of the Higher Trade Court," and imagine, he is a member of the High Council of Justice, "whose expertise and dignity has not been questioned by anything". A similar situation is with the failure of the proposed candidates for the president of the First and Second Municipal Court in Belgrade. That hurts. It hurts that candidates for the president and the First and Second Municipal Court in Belgrade did not go through the National Assembly filter. We are really happy that it is so, convinced that this very decision of this Parliament will help to improve the situation in these courts. I think the High Council of Justice and the Supreme Court of Serbia should be advertised in some other cases, say, when certain politicians, Mrs. Skero, comment on the first-degree verdicts and on the basis of first-degree rulings, declare the culprits for this or that crime. In such cases, there are no statements from those of whom it should be, that such comments by first-degree judgments do not affect second-degree courts. I think in such cases you should react. A few months ago, when one verdict was passed, I think it was even your personal reaction, which was quite appropriate, that politicians, commenting on first-degree judgments, were in fact trying to influence second-degree courts and that it was inadmissible. As for the work of parliament, at least as far as Serbian Radical Party MPs are concerned, believe that we are fully convinced that everything we say is coming to the support of most citizens, as well as most judges and prosecutors in Serbia. I'm talking about most people who do their job with honor and honesty. Of course, when we say that the situation in the judiciary is bad and when we say that some proposals are not good, we don't think judges are generally dishonest and bad people. On the contrary, we are convinced that most of the honorable, professional and honest holders of judicial functions, and we want these people to come to terms, not to be kept out of sight, because the wrong president of the court is wrongly elected, and I told them that they can't comment, that they have to stick around there, do their jobs, and never come to terms and never get to the President of their court, and they're much better, they're much better than the ones we get here as suggestions from the High Council. It is not just this time, but it is, I would say, generally, when it comes to this; we spoke to the Justice and Management Committee about this press release and then we told you that every time one of the MPs here says specifically, which is why they dispute some proposal, you know that you have the opportunity to come out after that MP and say why you think that MP is wrong. You didn't do it, you didn't do it, you didn't do it, you didn't do it, you didn't do it, you didn't do it, you didn't do it, you It is simply that we are talking about the choice from which this press release came from, you have not responded to what the MPs said and, of course, if one MP says something with some concrete information and the majority in this House accepts it, it is clear that that is the case and that is the truth. It's rarely said here, when we get motions here for resolutions, I mean judges, then we sort of go over it, all right, when it comes to solving for the perfect working age, working ability, but we have often here and here, so we have 15 today, and maybe more requirements for resolutions on a personal request. It would be really good if we had the same kind of fun sometimes, to see why these judges wanted to get out of the judiciary, which is why Zeljko Scepanovic, Judge of the Fourth Municipal Court... And we talked about him every time this topic is on the agenda, and we'll talk about every time this topic is on the agenda, because it's about an unworthy man who listened to Vladan Batic in time to cut in the middle of the process, to give up the evidence, to judge a man and that was the price for him to go to the county court. Of course, after we left last time, when he wanted it and when he applied, he didn't go, and how did he get away? Namely, he's applying to be resolved on a personal request and to go to lawyers. We don't mind, let him go, let the man work, so where he can work. I simply said this because I wanted it to be heard that what we do here is not without consequences and is not without echoes. It is also interesting that Vojkan Simic submits to the Supreme Court of Serbia, the Great personal higher request for the termination of the court's office, so he says, among other things, respected colleagues and colleagues, I am addressing you for a request to suspend the court's duties, for personal existential reasons. Interestingly, Vojkan Simic has existential problems. I don't really believe in this. I will also repeat something that I say every time this topic is, and I would really like to, Mrs. Shkero, I don't think you were the last time I said that, to record that for Judge Danko Lausevic, Judge of the Fifth Municipal Court, whom we claimed to be the exponent of Canet Subotic and his lawyer, Vlada Pavicevic, there has been an SRS resolution initiative for almost two and a half years now. So, if I didn't repeat it now, at all the relevant addresses, that evidence initiative went away and we'd like to know... Of course, the initiative doesn't have to be accepted, it doesn't have to be resolved because in the Serbian Radical Party, we think there are elements for it, but it would be good to know, okay, our initiative didn't come across approval, but then to be told, or written, and to be introduced to the public; if that man should stay where he is, then the public should get to know himself, and because of him, because we often mention him in a negative context, so it should also be because of this man to take a little care of it. Here we have been read (and received as MPs) which all proposals of the High Council of Justice withdraw. I don't think any of the motions on withdrawal can go past just by informing us that the High Council is withdrawing a proposal for this or that, because it's quite certain, if the High Council is running for office and this proposal comes to the Assembly, so there are positive reviews for that candidate in the High Council, if in the meantime that proposal is withdrawn, then something has to be found out that something has happened that we as MPs should have information about. Serbia should also have that information. If you say it in an explanation – we propose Mark Mark Markovic because he has all the positive grades, both the bar and his court, then we need to know why this Marko Markovic is not good now and why the proposal is withdrawing. So that's general, and I'd like to see that in the future, when we have such suggestions, we have that kind of explanation. O v.d. The states were spoken by colleagues before me, and I don't want to waste any time on it, because I've said it more than once, I think it's inadmissible for someone who doesn't go through here as a candidate for president to be V.D. And that it's going on, but I don't want to talk about it. I am now going to discuss a few concrete proposals that will increase the group of candidates the SRS is contesting. I don't know if I've arranged this in any order, but here's to help you if you're following. It is a decision 2451 of 20 October 2005 and concerns the area of the court in Cačka. So for the president of the municipal court in Guca, Ivan Jovicic is proposed. This, if elected, would be his second term. He was first elected in 2001. You know, every time I see in the proposal that someone at that time, so in 2001, at the time of the absoluteist government of Vladan Batić in the courts, was elected, then every time I chatted a little bit and tried to see why exactly that and why then. At a time when Mr. Ivan Jovicic was elected president of the court in 2001, he was in Guca president of Judge Zarko Gavrilovic, whom no one had ever had objections to, but Milka Marinkovic, a member of the Justice Committee, had objections. At that time, she was a messenger of the people. She was the president of Požega Municipality. Those who were in this parliament probably remember Milka Marinkovic as a mascot who served to cheer up the MPs. We have a letter here. Otherwise, we in the Serbian Radical Party, and I as a member of the Justice Committee, receive a large number of letters relating to work or to the problems of working in individual courts. Of course, we don't think that every piece of paper we get needs apriors to be accepted, because, as counterpart Vukic said, every time the two parties are in court, every time half of them are unhappy, because if they could have agreed, there would be no court. When we get all these materials, we're trying to figure out what's true and what's not. I think that is how the High Council of Justice should work, because most of the time when we receive a letter, it says that it is a copy of a letter sent to the High Council of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, the Committee on Justice and Administration, the President of the Assembly, the presidents of the parliamentary groups, etc., so people write to all the addresses. This letter says that Mr. Jovicic was a candidate for the President of the Court in 2001. He was then a candidate and Mr. Gavrilovic. They say, the then DS MP, the first neighbour of Judge Gavrilovic, is out of personal hatred against him, supported by Milka Marinkovic, a member of the Justice Committee in front of the DS. They chose Ivan Jovičić, who then had an underage three years of judicial training, and I see that's true because it stands in this material. It is said further that this Mr. Gavrilovic, for example, has taken over 530 executive cases and today there are 1200. So he didn't do any, he got three times as many. He didn't do any criminal convictions. Now he's taken about 10 cases, but no one's decided yet. In court he hired seven people, all seven were members of the DS, and two were on the Municipal Committee. The court has turned it into a party court. So, the fact that he hired some people and that they are members of the Democratic Party, by no means, because we don't normally think he's involved in politics and being a member of any party at all ugly and contagious and we always advocate that this so-called. independence, any body that is concerned, cannot be measured by whether it is a party member or not, because it is perfectly normal that every conscious being in a multiparty system has some kind of party commitment, whether officially or as a sympathiser, but it is obvious that this proposal is not good, that there was a candidate who was better than this candidate, with more working experience, to whom these attributes do not relate and that is why we challenged this Jovičić in Guca. We have this decision in 2098 since 13 September. I think we have two disputes here. Dragan Stefanovic was proposed for the County Court in Vranj. Dragan Stefanovic is told here: "The high council of the judiciary is mostly votes, seven for and three abstentions," so there was no general mood for him, and you say he enjoys the reputation and respect in the environment in which he lives and works. On the contrary, citizens of a whole local community with some collected signatures address the president of the Supreme Court, the National Assembly, the Justice Committee and ask us to try to prevent, as they say, the election for District Court President Dragan Stefanovic. Among other things, because Dragan Stefanovic, they say, is well-guarded by various former directors who have criminal charges for malfeasance, because of large couples who are found to be suspected, embezzled, stolen, etc. And they say that he keeps those items, that they stand with him in the drawer, that it's a large number of cases. They state an example that someone ran over a man two years ago, now three years ago they say, and he is one of the former directors of a company, some Radovan Stamenkovic, and they say he has not yet initiated any proceedings, so that he has a criminal case against SUP chief Vrano Dejan Ilic, etc. So these would be concrete reasons why we shouldn't vote for this candidate. In this same decision - the district of the District Court in Novi Pazar, you are proposing to be President of the Municipal Court in Tutin Shems Hadzic, Judge of the City Court in Tutin. We also challenged this. I call upon the Members of Parliament not to vote in favour of this proposal, and I will tell you why. You say here in your explanation: "The high council of the judiciary has unanimously proposed by Shems Hadzic, Judge of the City Court in Tutin, among the registered candidates for the President of the Municipal Court in Tutin. He spent his working life in the City Court in Tutin, first as a judge's intern, and you know, that was the time he went after breakfast to the judge, "I call as a judge's assistant, and in 2003 he was elected judge". So, at a time when Shemso Hadzic appeared here as a candidate, he had 2.5 years of judicial training. Unbelievable. The municipality court in Tutin is a small court, but there is a judge there with much more judicial training and work experience. There is no reasonable or logical reason why the High Council of Justice has proposed this proposal, except to believe what is being said in Tutin – that the chairman of the Municipal Committee of the DSS, a Dr. Dejan Daladzic, but I am not sure that I remembered the last name, made some deal to make this Shemso Hadzic president of the court, and he is in fact the extended hand of this currently v.d. President, I think he has a name for Shemsovic. He was a candidate last time, but he didn't pass because we challenged him. When we challenged V.D. The president was our position, and now, I will repeat, given the national composition in Tutin, that it would be good for at least some of the public functions to be entrusted to a man of Serbian nationality. Since it was neither in the MUP nor in the municipality, we thought it would be good for the president to be a Serb. Two Serbian candidates ran for office last time and now. But if even the High Council and the assembly majority don't think it's important, there's a candidate who's in every respect better than this candidate and with more experience and more respect and is not tied to any party, and this one is for the SDA of Sulejman Ugljanin. There are also stories that this proposal is related to these recent transfers between Djudzevic and Omeragic. So very suspicious. You had candidates for the president, Judge Vina Veljovic, Judge Rama Softic. Any one of them would be a better solution than this, and that is why we call on the MPs not to vote in favour of this proposal by the High Council of Justice. Vuksan Joksimovic is the third candidate, which I forgot, but I remembered. In decision 1901 of 17 August 2005, we have a lot of controversy, but I'm only going to illustrate some of the most drastic. We have the Municipal Court in Književec; it is proposed that Dragisa Cvejic be elected president. The Justice Committee has received letters from some of the judges in Književec, who dispute the candidate's dignity. They say, when it comes to dignity, that it is a special story, they say it is undeniable that the appointed Dragisa Cvejic drinks from the early morning hours, that most of the working time is absent from the court, that it is known which cafes citizens can find him in, that he is in a drinking state returning from the pub and that he literally serves to invent and convince jokes in his Knjižvac. Also, we have another letter for him. He says, "Dragisa Cvejic was proposed on the basis of an agreement reached and his promise to release him from prison before the suspended sentence on the parole of Zoran Stefanovic from Knjaževec, who has maintained the sentence of three and a half years in prison in Zajecar for killing a young man 20 years on an open road with his car and in the absence of any participant and for no reason whatsoever," etc. So these are very heavy accusations. If this is the case, then it would be perfectly normal not to vote for this proposal. If this isn't the case, we expect the High Council's representative to deny this. Furthermore, for the President of the Municipality Court in Varvarin, we are proposed Yugoslavia Markovic. We have a letter to the Ministry of Justice and to the High Council of Justice once delivered to the Justice and Administration Committee of the Serbian Parliament, where we have the name and name of the man who says he addressed the judges of the Municipal Court in Varvarin, as he gave 2000 marks to the president of this court to Yugoslav Markovic for the acquittal, the number of K-306/92. So, no lies, no fraud, man specifically wrote and he has all the details -- in which bar, in whose presence, but not to bother. That is why we are contesting the proposal for Yugoslavia Markovic. We have a proposal, which we dispute, for the district of the District Court of Požarevec, or for the President of the Municipal Court in Požarevec -Milica Peric. I don't know how many colleagues Jojic will want from the documentation he has here to present. I'm just going to read from one of the more letters that we've received against this proposal to say that it's an undeniable circumstance, so it's in this letter, and it wouldn't occur to us that anonymous letters are read, that in the executive department of this court in Pogorevec, where Executive Judge Peric Milic, there are 4.250 unfinished cases, and the same executions in which fire tycoons of the criminal past appear as executives, which, through the Milic's wife, known as the Crimean type, called Mis Struj, in addition to a limited tariff, depending on the level of monetary claims, accomplish their jobs, etc. Mr. Minister, it is funny, Miss Struja, but as soon as his nickname is that, imagine how it works. We have here as much as 798 to start the signatures gathered against this candidate. So this is just part of the concreteization of what we have presented, which is Zoran Krasic, on behalf of the parliamentary group, said here that we will dispute. After such concrete examples, it should not happen that the High Council of Justice, with a new statement, should God grant these candidates not to pass, and say that we MPs have misused something. We didn't. We are the People's Messengers, we are in contact with the people, we receive information from the people. Believe me, for us from the Serbian Radical Party, you know that I suppose earlier, it would never occur to us to go out and say something about which we have no evidence, which has not been confirmed and verified. That is why I call on my fellow MPs to say that we from the Serbian Radical Party will not vote, neither do you, for the sake of the Serbian judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21055	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Let the People's Messenger Petar Jojic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21056	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I have to note that it is obvious that this subject is the only one interested in the SRS parliamentary group. I think it's unheard of that only our MP group will hand over the list of speakers, regarding the choice of judges. It's amazing that all of you who advocate so much for the public of work, for the independent judiciary, had nothing to say about this number of candidates for the presidents of the courts and judges of municipal and county courts. There has been a lot of controversy both in the public and the previous election trip, i.e. the non-election of some of the presidents of the courts. We of the SRS parliamentary group have taken the view that from now on, all those we want to challenge will be challenged precisely by the assembly speaker, that this will no longer be done at the meetings of the Justice Committee, precisely because the general public will explain to us what our motives are and what the reasons are for disputing each of those judges we are challenging, and that we would once again convince the Serbian public that we are not guided by any personal interests, but that it is only in order for the judiciary to be the one we have advocated from the beginning. However, what is not good is not good that great pressures have been put on the High Council of Justice. There are also great pressures in courts when deciding and giving the College's opinion on some candidates, especially when it comes to those who are already presidents of some courts or performers, and are again running for the post. Of course, it's never been easy to get up and tell someone in the face as it is, there's a lot of those who don't want to do it, they're worried that maybe the next day they'll be exposed to some sanctions, rematch, think maybe they won't be able to move forward in a further career or eventually be able to come under the influence of a certain court and a certain judge. It's the most pronounced in smaller places, in smaller courts. But we from the SRS parliamentary group will consistently, as we have so far, implement our party programme. I brought here to read behind a pay phone how it was done in 2001 and how the DOS politicians sent the Justice Department a recommendation on who should be a judge and who shouldn't and what the independence of the judiciary looked like at the time. What's not good, we have fresher examples, during this regime, then I'll read you a letter that arrived at the Assembly's Justice Committee about a month ago, which is enough evidence to show that the understanding of certain parties and parliamentary groups about how independent justice should look, unfortunately, has not changed. The judiciary, according to them, should only be independent of their political opponents, but in many cases the political resemblance remains precisely the first criterion that one must fulfil to be elected to any function. Here, according to the DOS letter, nicely with their complete slogan, it says: The Justice Department, at a meeting of the Justice Committee for the Justice of the DOS held on 11.05.2001 and 16.05.2001, two meetings of DOS politburo held and said – after having held consultations on the holders of judicial functions in Požarevc for the Municipal, District and Business Court, as well as for the elder of the Violation Authorities, the above mentioned committee, the DOS politburo, has made a decision and proposes: for the President of the District Court in Pozarevec, the President of the Municipal Court, the President of the Court of Justice, the Elder of the Violents and the Public Prosecutor, therefore, the full judiciary concerning Pozarjevac, the Politburo DOS held a meeting and said that. Then, in conclusion, they say -- we further note that behind these proposals a complete DOS in Pozarevec, except for DSS representatives in Pozarevec, who support all proposals, except for a proposal for the President of the District Court in Pozarevec. It was the only detail that bothered them, everything else could and then stamped in order: the DS, the Democratic Centre and all the others who did this complete DOS, who decided at a meeting of the Justice Committee who could be the judge and who didn't. This is an excellent example for you, but here, for example, letters received by the Assembly Committee on Justice, received at the Assembly on September 28, 2005, which clearly shows us that some other municipal officials today, the powerful think it is they who need to decide whether someone is fit for a particular function, whether he is worthy of a judicial term. Simply, we as representatives of the people, regularly, legally and legitimately elected in the elections, seem not good enough for that, but some other structures, I also repeat, from the DSS, this gentleman who wrote this letter and he obviously understands this in some other way. He says - subject: a request for the refusal of Milosevic Nebojje's candidacy for the President of the Municipal Court in Vladic's Han. I have to point out that I really don't want to go into it at all if this gentleman, I really don't know him, I don't know, I don't even know if he's elected, proposed or anything else, I'm not going to go into it, I want to show just what the relationship of the ruling regime is with the judiciary. That's what the point is. Whether this gentleman is good, he's like, he's not like him right now, it's not that important, but it's important to show how and how certain things end and to show simply that there are MP groups who won't participate in it. He goes on to say - the Honorable President of the Committee, I would like to express this great dissatisfaction with the skills that the High Council of Justice has accepted the candidacy of Milosevic Nebojsa, Judges from Vladic's Han, as President of the Municipal Court in Vladic's Han. It's a total mistake and unacceptable for the citizens of the municipalities for the following reasons, and then it lists all sorts of reasons or quasi-causes, and it says: Nebojsa was and remains the first feather of the notorious SPS regime to harass this municipality. It appears that they were not informed downstairs that just with the support of the remains of the infamous, according to the SPS regime and the party it belongs to today is ruling Serbia. It is further said that in a court procedure, in some, all 13 detainees are absolutely released from the indictment; it further says in brackets -- which had no basis, but was accepted by judge Milosevic. I am not going to read all these reasons now, but in the end it is said – in any case, Nebojsa Milosevic does not have the merit (probably thinks of those revolutionary ones), or professional performances to assume the role of the President of the Municipal Court in Vladic's Han. He has to go to the defendant's bench instead of in the chair of the President of the Municipal Court. For these reasons, we propose that Nebojsa Milosevic's candidacy for the President of the Municipal Court in Vladic's Han be rejected. In the end: with respect, municipality manager Avram Stanojević and stamp SO Vladičin's Han. I really think -- if it weren't tragic, it would be funny, it's amazing that a man with such a mental set exists, who will decide not only to write to the Justice Committee and demand this kind of nonsense from the Committee, but is willing to, in the capacity of the municipal manager, which is not small, it's obviously a force in Vlad's Han, to seal SO. So, I guess he was authorized by all the citizens of Vlad's Han to be an interpreter of their opinions and to make official views by sealing municipalities and certificates. These letters, these are only two that are characteristic, there are many; we have indeed hundreds and hundreds of pages of material received about the candidates that we have proposed. For some, it turns out that they are correct, for some, that these data we have been getting have absolutely nothing to do with reality, but this is a good indicator of what the Serbia judiciary is currently in. We need to look at it in a completely realistic and rational way, not too many calls should be raised to judges, because it has to be known and it must be said that in many courts the highest-quality judges and those who may have been the best performers of a municipal or county court do not even want to apply to the competition. There is a problem, which has also been identified by the Ministry of Justice and some of the honorable people in the High Council of Justice, how to choose between candidates who report, because we have courts where no one appears, and there are courts where judges who have shown themselves extremely badly, who have a large number of outstanding cases, a large number of abolished judgments and who simply have no authority to perform the office of the President of the Court. These are people who may be more likely to be resolved than to be elected president or elected to a senior court. Because of all this, I think it is completely honorable and open-minded for the Serbian Radical Party to say here in front of everyone what we have against this or that candidate, i.e. against the election of this or that candidate, because we have nothing against any of them personally, so that we leave our conscience that this few MPs from the ruling regime, who still stayed in the room to listen to what it is, when the day comes to vote according to their security and vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21057	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. If it is not in the hall, I give my word to the MP Milan Stevovic, and let the MP Miljko Cevrovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21058	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, I believe that the choice of judges and holders of judicial functions deserves more attention from this House, because, as far as I can see, especially on the side of the ruling coalition, there is indeed a small number of MPs. I find it extremely incorrect to attribute the wrong of the judiciary to someone other than the one who has authority to decide on individual candidates. My opinion is that MPs, especially because they come from different backgrounds, do not have more important and more important jobs than when it comes to the system of justice, the independence of courts and all holders of judicial functions. It would be in our country's interest to open up here a reasoned debate between all of us and to hear about those candidates that are being challenged by the SRS today, perhaps from fellow MPs on the other hand, something different in tone, maybe some good news, so maybe we're correcting some of our views. Thus, the discussion comes down to speakers from the Serbian Radical Party, and we do it as we are required by the parliamentary obligations and, of course, the information we receive on the ground. I personally believe that as a former judge and as a lawyer, I have a very ungrateful duty when I report for my word on these occasions, but the parliamentary duty obliges me to say what I think and I will really only speak about the area of the District Court in Uzic, where I come from and whose citizens I represent. What's very important is that in this proposal we have five candidates for the presidents of the district court's territory in Uzic, which I normally consider to be very high quality and all municipal courts. My opinion, as MPs in front of the Serbian Radical Party, is that there is indeed a few commendable words here about those who have been proposed. First of all, I am referring to the candidate of the Municipal Court in Ariel Mr. Ljubinko Petrovic, otherwise the former president of the Community Court in Ariel. And to point out the fact that the Community Court in Ariel is the most arduous court in the area of the Republic of Serbia. Thanks to Mr Petrovic's involvement, his personal qualities and moral qualities, I believe that this court came first from all courts in the Republic of Serbia. It really needs honor and recognition, and I think that this speaker should also serve to praise those who do as this Parliament takes a general and principled position, so, honestly, honestly, efficiently and promptly. It is a similar situation when we talk about the Municipality court in Bajina Basta, where candidate Milan Radulovic is proposed, about the Municipality court in Prijepolje, where candidate Zoran Pantovic is proposed. Indeed, according to the information we have on the ground, people deserve to do this job and chair the courts in these places. I have a special pleasure to say about the Požega Municipal Court, where I have spent many years and I have a job experience and, according to what I know, it is a very high-quality court and any judge that they have proposed to the High Council of Justice also deserves their moral and professional qualities to be the president of this court. Also, I think that Mr. Vitomir Urosevic, Judge of the Municipal Court in Požega, deserves to be the President of the Municipal Court, just as the previous judge, Mr. Djuric Ljubisa, deserved. So they're all people who do their jobs and their functions in one appropriate way and the way it's supposed to be. The only problem that arises here, and according to Mr Krasic, who was head of the SRS parliamentary group, appears in Priboj. So I ask you, Minister, to bear in mind that of these five SRS only challenge one candidate, and that for the President of the Court of Justice in Priboj, it is indeed very argumentative and very professional. I will tell you that the candidate of the High Council of Justice is Kadadinović Caja, and according to the information on the terrain I have really is a judge who should not be held at the head of the Court of Justice, primarily because of the unprofessional relationship in the handling of certain cases, because it is not sufficient to consider that the President of the Court, in addition to his or her moral and human qualities, has to address certain situations that are problematic in courts. I would just like to point out that the conduct of Judge Koadinovic Caje in certain cases in a qualified council, so after adopting a solution to detention, is extremely discriminatory. I will give you just one example, which is that at the request of a public prosecutor in Priboj, the Municipal Court of Priboj has ordered the arrest of a person detained from Republika Srpska, a citizen of another state, a man who has no family, has no permanent employment, and there is a reasonable doubt that he has committed a crime. His detention was ordered on 18 August 2003, so that Kadadinovic Caje's presidency would be abolished on 22 August and such a person who had been detained and wanted for quite a long time, it went to Republika Srpska. Behind that, objects stand, sour, move from drawer to drawer and create one general dissatisfaction. It is not the only subject in which the action of a qualified council is problematic. I must say that I received information and that due to certain arbitrary actions of the worker Drobnjak Slobodanka, she was fired at the Municipal Court, because she had to respect what Judge Kadadinović had ordered and remained with her, although the President of the Court had second place of work and, without respecting that order, she lost her job. Cases are still pending before the First Municipal Court. What will end up being I don't know, but certainly because of the way certain judges are treated by workers, and they are also important for the system of functioning of the judiciary, such as judges and all holders of judicial functions. Similarly repeated by lawyers who suggest they have problems and are constantly complaining about the work of Judge Kadadinović Caja, so if this information is important for the minister, I will deliver this information, I will give which items and numbers, and believe that these people who wrote this really personally know me, I directly cooperated with them, and I am quite confident in what they say. If I were to tell you who the sources are, that's why I said I had all the documentation and that I would, in the event of need, give it to the minister, I would still violate one MP's reputation that I wanted to maintain. Therefore, I would ask you to really think about this proposal. Because here, I have a report of people who don't belong to the judiciary, but they belong to another organization that's important for the functioning of life in the city of Priboj, and it's kind of repeating itself. So, all of this when we collect and summary, we need to reconsider this decision of the High Council of Justice, and for these reasons, the SRS of this candidate contests. I propose that in the day of voting and the other MPs take care, first of all, of commending the candidates given by the High Council of Justice in the pleasure district and challenging a single one.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21059	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21060	I'd like to give you a little explanation. When I said at first that there were some things that no man could answer, I meant the next situation. It has been said here that the irresponsible man, Aca Vukevic, is a judge in Cačka, and is elected judge of the court, because he has been elected, and is now running for judge of the District Court in Chačka. Actually, it was a very simple thing. He's a kind of judge. If you remember, we all voted for him to be president of the court. However, a month or a month and a half after the election, he suffered a severe heart attack. De facto, the only thing he can do is work as a district court judge, as a professional and experienced man, in a second-degree council. That was the reason he was running for president. I'm giving this explanation so this story doesn't stay. It was an objective reason, a severe heart attack.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21061	Last reported by MP Miljko Cetrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21062	Dear People's MPs, here's an opportunity, in addition to discussing the proposed candidates for the holders of judicial functions, to say a word as MPs about the functioning of the judiciary in the environments from which we come. As I come from the Kingdom, looking at a picture of the work of the Municipal Court, the District Court, in particular the Trade Court, and two candidates who are here, among other things, are proposed to appoint the President of the Chamber of Commerce, Kraljena Zlatan Dmitriić and the President of the District Court, Mr. Kraljevska Nikolic. When I received the material, as a national MP from the King, knowing the situation and functioning of the Trade Court of Kings, knowing that Minister Stojkovic had long since come to the Kingdom under the right of supervision, to exercise control of the work of the Trade Court of Kings and the work of President of the Trade Court of the Kingdom of Zlatan Dmitriić, all these months ago, not only as a MP but also many others who were in some way in a position to suffer the consequences of the work of the Trade Court of Kings and President of that court of Zlatan Dmitri, I thought that the discharge procedure would be initiated. Unfortunately, we are getting a proposal from the High Council of Justice to propose Zlatan Dmitric to the President of the Royal Trade Court. It is incomprehensible in one state where the rule of law should rule, if we see the judiciary as one of the three pillars of the state, that, after the information received in the Kingdom, Minister Stojkovic did not initiate the discharge procedure and that after so many months, the motion for the re-election of Zlatan Dmitriic as President of the Commercial Court of the Kingdom came. I do not need to remind Minister Stojkovic here what he found in the supervision of the Kraljevo Trade Court, all of which was unlawfully dealt with by Zlatan Dimitric, whether he acted as President of the Royal Trade Court or acted as a lawyer of the majority owners who are through the so-called so-called Trade Court. Privatisation, that is, the robbery wanted to kidnap "Auto Transport" Vranjačka Banja, "Fridge" Kraljevo, "Poljo Transport" Kraljevo, "Electron" is still in the process of kidnapping and robbery, and that the procedure for the release was not followed, but rather the procedure for proposing to be President of the Commercial Court of Kings for four more years. Looking at the facts, I will not be present here with specific information, it is also known to the minister, and this should also be known to the High Council of Justice and to the President of the Supreme Court, that Zlatan Dmitriic is not only not worthy to perform the presidency, but also to serve as judge. It was necessary to carry out the procedure, as part of the judge, that they were not worthy to perform judicial functions or not meet certain requirements regarding the urgency, the quality of their decisions. We do not have this procedure, and we will not come to this process unless the right criteria and criteria for the exercise of judicial functions are laid down, especially for the presidents of the courts. To cite further examples for the President of the Commercial Court of Kings, which is once again proposed, what happens in bankruptcy proceedings in the Commercial Court of Kings, starts with the bankruptcy procedure "Kablara", and the large construction firm, where the property, with the participation and bankruptcy council, the bankruptcy judge and the bankruptcy director, is a direct link with this successful so-called "successful". Newly-compromised rich people - businessmen, so getting, through bankruptcy proceedings and selling immovable property in the inner city, location, and obtaining appropriate documents and building permits in that location, with the violation of the Law on Planning and Construction and Breaking of These Decisions SO Kraljevo, so what happened with the bankruptcy of Etex, by selling in the bankruptcy procedure of the entire company, so the bankruptcy judge appears at some new facility in Ratina near the shuraks. It seems that the King is doomed to suffer some brother-in-laws, starting with TV Kraljevno, and his brother-in-law is the brother-in-law of Bogoljub Karic. This brother-in-law Babic also appeared in some shows on these large private TVs, on a round table with Bogoljub Karic. It was not announced that he was his brother-in-law, the brother-in-law of Bogoljub Karic's wife, but rather a representative of a Canadian company that allegedly bought in the bankruptcy procedure "Eteks" from Baljevac and is now building a factory for the production of carpentry and even a house made of glass fiber. Such lies and fraud, and we in the King well know what happened in Etex, what happened in the Trade Court, and what happens now about the construction of this so-called so-called. New factories in Ratina. As far as the state of the municipal court is concerned, I'm only going to say one example. I worked at the Jugoban. Is it possible that one item, after a major robbery that took place in 1992, 13 South Bank workers, headed by a deputy director, was in custody for six months and was succeeded, by delaying the whole process, to depreciate the case for prosecution. The robbery was about a million and a half to two million marks in that time. Now it's small for these Caricians and the others, I don't want to mention them, I don't have much time. That condition was and continued, unfortunately. I have a submission from a young man's father to the Security Committee, since there's nothing he can do in the Court of Justice of the Kingdom, and this is case number 695/03. In a famous "Sabbe" action, on March 27, 2003, his son was detained by police, allegedly, for stealing a cell phone and having a hard time beating him up with bats in the MUP rooms. Those are his father's allegations. Then they took him to Goc, took him off naked at midnight, left him there and threatened to tell no one to complain. Who took part in this? Two M.O.P. inspectors and two cops. A criminal trial was initiated after a long time. What does it matter what's going on here? One of those guilty cops can't be brought in, because he can't find the King's SUP. The second to participate in beating the young man, who is diabetic, was fired from the SUP Kraljevo, Serbia's MUP, not because of such an act, but because of the theft of a mobile phone. The same SUP King in some procedure that has been going on for days, and by the order of the municipal prosecutor, he is scrambling and harassing citizens of the entire municipality of Kralje, calling on them to declare whether they have signed a statement to recall the president of the municipality of Kralje Radoslav Jovic, and are not in a position to find the one they need to bring in, and he was a member of the police, or Serbia's MUP. The same court in the King following a private criminal suit by the head of the SPO group Kraljevo, Sljivić, that I did a crime by making certain claims about the speaker SO Kraljevo, after failing to attend one hearing, ordered my detention as a national envoy to another. It's justice and it's a trial at the Royal Municipal Court. As for the candidate for the President of the District Court, I was not in a position to collect a lot of information on the work of the District Court, and looking at this table where many branches are empty, however, the High Council of Justice should have information here and about the cases that have been confirmed and the number of decisions of the District Court of Kings. It's not here, it's all zeroes. Unfortunately, I have to go back to what's happening now in the King, we delivered... In fact, we did not deliver, but is at the request of the SUP inspector, because several times as a group, we asked that as a group, SO Kralje's agenda be placed savagely in the city's largest city center, kidnapping that space from citizens living there, and after several of these attempts by two SUP inspectors, the King came in 14.6.2005 to the SRS municipal board and asked for documentation. We have collected certain documentation before, including from citizens who directly brought it to the municipal board, as well as documents that we have collected for the SO Kraljevo sessions and from documents brought by local authorities. That's the paperwork we submitted on 14th. Six. (It's a big file) And after three and a half months, so six. The 10th SUP inspectors of the King return that documentation; no procedure, found anything that was allegedly unlawfully done, when it comes to the savagery of the urban mafia in the city centre. That's why the head of economic crime, Zvonko Obradovic, is now allegedly some organiser of this signing and calling citizens on the phone to return within an hour. I, as a man, could not accept such a procedure, because it is now a factual public political police force, but unfortunately, on the orders of the municipal public prosecutor, I even addressed the district attorney, to prevent it, because police should not now make a file of members or members of the SRS, SRS sympathisers and all those who signed a petition to replace the president of the municipality. What was said by Jovic, that it is not only the King's problem and that if the King's fall falls and all of Serbia - neither the King's nor all of Serbia will fall. However, it will have to be called off by the President of the Kingdom Municipality, there will have to be an extraordinary local election, because that is what the citizens of the Kingdom Hall want. They can't take it anymore, they can't lose years, months, days, because they've lost a lot of these years back and nothing's been solved in the city, not even in this community. They must choose one authority that will work responsibly, where key problems of the city itself and the entire municipality are solved. I have to ask, once again, to return to privatisation and robbery, I see here through the discussion that the problem of the President of the Higher Commercial Court is not resolved, when this Higher Commercial Court, when it comes to privatisation, of these hundreds and some of the submitted, allegedly, claims for termination of the contract, will decide, when it is already first-degree, and if it is the Commercial Court of Belgrade, to bring first-degree rulings, and now, on the complaints of those majority owners, the cases are in the Higher Trade Court. Is it possible for Poljoport the King's object... In fact, the Belgrade Commercial Court has not decided yet, but the debate has been scheduled, the appeal proceedings are under way at Poljoprome, and the Belgrade Trade Court's ruling was reached on 11 July 2005. This majority owner has committed crimes by selling a large part of the property "Paljoprost" Kraljevo, has been in custody for three months, and in connection with a larger Supreme Court, I am free to speak freely for this pay phone, release him from custody and continue to chicanate and abuse what few workers remain in "Paljo Transport". These workers, like many others, lost their jobs, without pay, and without a piece of bread. The same problem is with the "Fridge" Kraljevo, and there is also the bakery "May 1st" Raška and the textile combination of Raška, yet to be reached by the first-degree ruling of the Trade Court in Belgrade. They say, this is a little bit or one crumb that should, in some way, bring a little justice, so hundreds of thousands of workers who are through this robbery, so on. Privatisation is lost from work, without a piece of bread in some months-long strikes, so they have no protection from labour inspection, neither from municipal public prosecutors, nor from district public prosecutors, nor from trade courts, nor from the Higher Commercial Court, but unfortunately neither from the Supreme Court, nor from the minister of justice, nor from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This injustice, which culminates from day to day, has effectively disproved hundreds of thousands of workers who have created this property for decades, who have now lost nothing in the privatisation process. No one cares about them anymore, no one will take them in, no one will talk to them. I am bound and bound as a man and as a people's messenger, and I do so in the council of kings, delegations come to me all the working days, especially on Saturdays when I am in the King. A bunch of papers, cases, evidence of robbery and abuse, of shagging, and none of the state institutions of the Authority are doing anything to protect them and to keep a little justice in this country. This, however, will not be possible, and this issue will have to be resolved under urgent local elections and early parliamentary elections, so that Serbia's state, the Serbian citizens, will get responsible authority, both at national and local levels, and that the application and rule of law begin, that thieves and criminals finally face justice, to make bills. They are not earnings, and I often hear here from the pay phone – he earned; what he earned, he took, he robbed, there is no profit, not a million, not two, not five, not ten million euros in a year, because it is robbery and kidnapping. They're neither smart nor capable, so why don't they do it in another country, for example? In the United States, in a year to earn 10, 20, 50 or 100 million euros. You can't make money there, and they can't even rob them, they can only rob the state of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21063	Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups? Yeah. ) The word has the mandated representative of the G17 Group plus MP Marko Krstin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21064	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the Supreme Court, we have indeed had one momentary detailed and exhausting debate on individual candidates, which I think is very good, which shows how important the topic we discussed today is. I think it's good that in that tone, it means critically, we continue to discuss issues related to the holders of judicial functions. I think that citizens expect us to treat such a responsible and large problem as the completion of a judicial authority. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is responsible for creating institutional frameworks for the functioning of the judiciary, for creating conditions for its independence and for functioning under the law. Of course, the Serbian Parliament does not release responsibility for the functioning of this very important branch of government, which of course does not involve mixing in the resolution of concrete cases. We don't do that. So this assembly has passed a series of laws of exceptional importance for the functioning of the judicial authority. Here I mean both the judiciary and the prosecution, and now the law enforcement authorities. So these are procedural regulations, material regulations, and on the other hand, significant measures are being taken to improve the material position of judicial functions, which is significantly improved. On the other hand, however, in the protection of citizens' interests, the Assembly is expected to see judicial authorities achieve much more significant success in reducing procedures and timely resolution of citizens' rights. I think that part of the responsibility of the judicial authorities should bear. I expect them to have a much faster and more efficient solution to citizens' rights even after this session. As for the engagement of MPs of the position, which has also been the subject of discussion here on this very important point and a little regrettable that we may not be involved in all specific issues, when it comes to G17 plus and the other MPs, I want to tell you that we are really neatly involved in the work of the Committee on Justice and Management. We are indeed receiving citizens and all the materials that citizens give us about the work of legal holders, we are considering and defining ourselves. I want to tell you that from now on 105 candidates have been challenged 41 candidates, and of which only 92 refer to judicial office holders in courts; in the prosecution no one is challenged, and three candidates have been withdrawn by the motionor. All this suggests that this was really one debate that deserves attention, because the problem is also very important. We, as some MPs, have not given up talking to the High Council of Justice, regarding the disputed statement. I must tell you that I agree with most of the results of the MPs who have expressed some disdain over that statement. We took this disdain and dissension to the eyes with representatives of the High Council of Justice and did not avoid that meeting. It's not apostrophe here, I didn't think I should talk about it here. I talked to people to hear what it was that made them or caused them to make such a sharp or conflicting statement. Of course we told them there that we disagreed with the Assembly's involvement in the work of the High Council, we're just doing our job, and as long as the Assembly is so established it will perform its function, because the G17 Plus and this government is extremely interested in the functioning of all the institutions in Serbia, especially the institutions of the judiciary. On the other hand, the Serbian Parliament has its powers to choose and resolve carriers and it will do them exactly the way we are doing it now. I think it's the right way. I think that now everyone has found out, not just on the Justice Committee, which unfortunately means of information not being followed, but in the Assembly we have had an open debate on every proposed candidate, I think that's the way to go. I think the citizens expect us to, especially when they're powerless to exercise their right, to talk about it this way. According to the Constitution, the judge's office is permanent, we have no other chance to discuss this than in discussions like this. Furthermore, as I said, I expect the supervisory authorities who oversee the work of judges in certain cases, when it comes to applying deadlines, the Rules of Procedure, etc., to be much more up-to-date and to propose that this assembly be resolved by those judges who do not act accordingly. We have also heard carefully all the debates during this debate, as we have defined ourselves at the very beginning. We're not going to define ourselves according to which one of the debaters is from which party. We believe this is a common interest for all Serbian citizens to choose really judges, presidents of courts and prosecutors who meet the requirements of dignity and expertise. We're going to join some of the proposals for the dispute that we think are established, and that's why we haven't discussed them in any practical way. We have the same knowledge from those same citizens. So this is about Nebojsa Stojčić, Bozidarki Rajic, Ani Bin-Marki, Gordani Vlaskalin in Novi Bece, Zoran Manic, Dragan Stefanovic and Marina Angelkovic from Vranja. So these are the candidates that are proposed, which we won't vote for, and we haven't made any particular statements about them, because it's really exhausting everything that the citizens have written about here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21065	Thank you, Mr. Christin. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? No, I don't. ) Does anyone who did not exercise their right under Article 93 want a word? Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Before we conclude a single search on the motions for decisions, do the proposing representatives want to give the final statement? The word is Mrs. Vida Petrovic-Skero, President of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21066	I welcome the honourable MPs, and I want to say a few words too. I've been put here in a position to come to the Assembly and I'm mostly aware of what you're objecting to to the proposed candidates, which makes it impossible for me to raise my hand immediately and answer specifically, because I don't have a chance to check. You have letters, I don't have them in front of me. You have a certain kind of data, and I don't. So we're already in an unequal position when I can defend somewhere or say, maybe you're right. Another thing I wanted to mention, that we might bring some things down to some normal level of our debate, because here we came into some small debate about when who and what can say – the Constitution predicts that there are three equal branches of government. If there are three equal branches of government, I think everyone can be resented. Anyone can't accept a grudge, but everyone has the right in their own way to blame another branch of government, because otherwise, we could say so too - you have no right. But you're right. But we're right, too. I must say, the High Council of Justice has not prescribed the way it works, but the law that this assembly has passed. If the congregation has passed such a law, we must all respect it, and the High Council and members of the congregation. Therefore, for these reasons, it is not public in this way, such as the Assembly, the way of work of the High Council, so the High Council decided to declare in its own way, something he had in the Assembly, of course, with the full possibility that someone would accept or not accept what was said in the statement. But, of course, in equality with three branches of government, I don't think there's a chance that someone would say that one branch of government has no right to say. What I wanted to say further, in terms of concrete discussions, is that, of course, there are possibilities of stories and criticism of the High Council on concrete members. But I think that such a general story is not acceptable and serious enough, because from the very discussion of the MPs here, there is also a way of discussing which shows, as you have all repeated many times, and this is the political presence of candidates, those who discuss in this and what, which means that there is such a story and that it is not a story that can only be put into place by one branch of government and that the judiciary is thinking about it, but obviously everyone is working within it. Next, I'd like to say that I can't really answer here because I don't know what anyone said at the trial. The trials are public and everyone has the right, except when the law says he's attending the trial, and apparently there's a phenomenon with us that everyone comments on trials in both legal and illegal ways, but it's not in the judiciary. Furthermore, I will mention here, after all the discussions that have been, what I keep repeating and I will always repeat – the court judge, the court does not reveal the perpetrators, the court only judges when it has a charge and determines someone's guilt. You can't put that on trial, you can't put it on the judge's hands, because when there's no trial, the court can't function alone. That's what you need to know. It's got to be known that I can see a car crash through the window, see who's inside, but if I don't have a charge, I can't judge, I know who's got to start the trial. We constantly have the obvious meeting and using it to say that the court didn't do it, the judges didn't do it. Even the President of the Court can't protect that situation. Furthermore, when we talk about choice and v.d. I'd like to look back on what's been discussed here. The law determines who determines V.D. The president. In Serbia, V.D. The conditions don't last because of the High Council. Unfortunately, the Assembly couldn't because of its dynamics, because it is not a small operating body, to follow the High Council's proposals. Therefore, V.D. Serbia's conditions persist, because unfortunately in two major elections there has been an election by the president of Serbia. When we have such a situation, it is difficult to match the functioning of the work and the proposal of the High Council and the Assembly. As for the grudges, directly to me, that I haven't changed the perpetrator V.D. Functions, the acting officer is not the president of the court. The law only gives this authority to the President directly to the High Court, not to Parliament. The law regulated it. If there has been no concrete criticism from parliament against the candidate, but during the discussion it has been said -- there is a better one, I believe there is no reason to remove the performer who, according to that decision, is on the basis of which he begins to work, which is a legal formulation, performs his duty until the election or the end of the term of office for up to one year. The other thing is if there are some allegations, which is why I always write everything here neatly, so that if it's determined, of course, given your information, there's absolutely accurate information that you have, because you get it from the citizens, too. I should like to refer to Parliamentarian Obradovic's comment on the long story of a request to resolve the candidate who applied for the court's post. I have to look back, because it would simply indicate abuse of the office of the president of the court. I wish that Mr. Obradovic had read all the columns in the case and that it was determined that, just by respecting the criteria made by the High Council, he had made an ex post request that the candidates who applied for the President of the Court had, unfortunately, 30, 20, 40 cases that were not made or close to the legal deadline, that court decisions were made three years later, that there were around 10-15 cases outdated. If the President of the Supreme Court finds out about something like that, I believe that it is his duty and obligation to initiate an appropriate legal procedure, because I was immediately in the exercise of my office, as chairman of the High Council, and it is amazing that this report has resulted in decisions being made and specifically sent a few days later after the Council and after finding out that there was a discussion in the Council about how it is possible for someone to apply to the post of president, and that there are a very large number of unsettled court decisions within the legal period, that it is due to that and outdated. That's what the reason is, and I think it's the duty of every president of the court to deal with it. On the other hand, immediately after this discussion, we have a discussion showing a double archin when it is said - regarding the functioning of the court in respect of the party, no decision has been made within two years. An identical situation. Of course, when I have knowledge of this, with a specific subject, I will consider my obligation to react to it, regardless of what a party thinks in the process, whether political, or any one in the Assembly, because it is my legal obligation, as the President of the Court. I would also like to say that I believe that there must be co-operation in the functioning of the government, because they would not come into the situation to mention the irresponsibility of a fellow who is having a heart attack, which the minister mentioned, or has some major health disturbances, and very much respecting their possible obligations to compete in a higher court, and this is a very high-quality judge, with a great explanation, which has driven him to do exactly this after several months of his election, because he considers it a moral act not to remain in that position, with the possibility of being sick and the inability to do business with his full investment. I can respond immediately with regard to candidate Milos Pavlovic, who was proposed to the judge, that he was not resolved; his term of office expired. I don't know the others, because I can't answer the question of the MPs from here, but I have to answer that this isn't exactly a quote. I have another observation that here, when candidates are proposed, especially for the President of the Court, we must bear in mind that commenting on the court rulings that existed here cannot be the responsibility of the President of the Court, except in respect of the deadlines, except in respect of what the Rules of Procedure says about the work of the courts. The decision in the case is made by the judge. I'd like to say one more thing: I haven't received many of these complaints. I can't say anything about that. I again appeal to the Justice Committee to work together on our own way of working, because then we will not be in a position to withdraw the proposal if it is determined that there is information that the High Council does not know about. The High Council cannot have knowledge of anything that you can have, which I said last time, we have knowledge of how to work. As for the criteria, I would like you to keep in mind when you make a decision, which you need to make, that the criteria apply the same thing to candidates for one particular court, but not to other courts, because we have concrete candidates for that court and we compare it there. I cannot compare the candidate for Uzice, who has the perfect results of work and candidates for Belgrade, where we do not have a candidate with such work results and then we choose the best from what is offered. Where we believe that indeed candidates who have applied, in the opinion of the High Council, and which is our legal authority, we find it more correct to re-open the competition, then I think it belongs to our legal powers, not to abuses. I would pray that when you decide, you always think about the fact that the judiciary really has to be independent and that we do not allow this kind of work to lead to judges talking to help a particular party. Unfortunately, that's what I said in my interview, politics isn't just about judges. Judges also go to politics, but they're caused by once-in-a-lifetime divisions that aren't good. I therefore believe that it is necessary for the joint, and the judiciary, and the legislative authority and the executive power, to work on the choice of judges exclusively by their own quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21067	Thank you, Mrs. Skero. Replica, Mr. Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21068	Since I've asked some questions to Mrs. Shkero and I've been mentioned in Mrs. Shkero's reply. Otherwise, for one part of the question I asked, I didn't get an answer at all. (Vida Petrovic-Skero, from the scene: I may have skipped.) That's your thing, I've been very clear, I've been talking for 48 minutes. So I spoke very closely about today’s question. You have not answered certain questions, and you have not answered them in the way I have asked them. Mrs. Shkero, I quoted Mrs. Svetlana Đuricic's letter and I made clear her reasons why she thinks you're wrong, and I listed the letter you signed, not me, but you, where the council date stands, the date of the court's expedition. It also says the date of the reception of the case. I'm not questioning that. I listed her explanation, where she says those cases were brought to court then. The point is, you can't see here when she was in charge of those items. This will eventually be determined that a number of items placed on her soul were with her colleagues, and they are not subject to resolution. Excuse me, please, if I'm wrong, I was quoting Miss Svetlana Đuricic's letter. She's not in charge, she's in charge of a colleague, she's being put on her soul, and I listed the dates very closely. This is a letter you signed, no offense. You don't want to understand me or you don't want to understand me. One thing is when it came to court, and another thing is when she's in charge, it doesn't stand, and it's put on her soul. The third thing is when it's the date of the council, and the fourth is the court's expedition. Between the date of the court's raise and the court's expedition, there's no decision that's more than seven days old, and you put it on her soul. It's put on her soul as a reason for resolution, and that doesn't stand for nothing. Second thing, eye v.d. states. I'm not interested in personal matters at all. The point here is, the National Assembly did not agree to elect one candidate, a candidate for the President of the High Court of Commerce. It's the will of the Parliament, you ignore it, you've estimated whether it is or not. You mean, here's a statement from the High Council of Justice that you're not touched by any argument that we've made about either the first or the second court, or you or the High Council of Justice. This is a statement in which you participated. He says the situation with the non-election of the proposed candidates is similar to that of the first and second court. It doesn't matter to you, not at all, whether you say it or not, you ignore it. That's what I'm talking about. I don't care who's gonna be the candidate, who's gonna be elected, that's the Parliament's will. I'm saying something else. You have been ignoring the will of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for three months. Why? You estimate he's the best, there's no one competent, there's no one professional, let's disband that court, all of it. My colleague mentioned well, the cases in trade courts and the enormous importance of these decisions for the lives of citizens. Believe it or not, but we are the only authority in this state of Serbia that is perceived as someone who can help individual judges. That may sound strange to you, but that's the way it is. Compared to what I asked, and I asked and did not get an answer, the whole story is that the National Assembly is doing its legally established job. We did not question the High Council of Justice, but the High Council of Justice questioned the Assembly. I don't know if you're reading carefully, but there are a dozen qualifications here that degrade, disabling the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm sorry, please, I don't think that's possible. I said I'd stay on it. It would be good for everyone to stick to their laws of established authority, so let's work. We have many things in the state of Serbia that I do not like, but what I will do, they are what they are until they change. We as MPs may not be the kind of people who like citizens, but it will settle new elections. Until there are new elections, we are where we are and we are doing our job, and that is something that cannot be changed until the next election or similar or to change the next law, so that we can give all the powers to the High Council of Justice, and that we here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are just finding out. I agree with that, but as long as the law is like this, we must abide by it, and we MPs are working in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21069	Let's stick to the law and the Rules of Procedure. Since there are no more registered presidents or authorised representatives, before I conclude a single search I am giving a break, under Article 85, until 14.35 p.m. Just one notice, informally, in case there isn't a vote on adding new points, and even if there is, after that, if there is a brief debate or not, we'll start with the amendments anyway, but today we'll be working the longest according to the amendments under the first three laws, but probably just the first two. The first is doping about sports, safety at work, and a day of mourning. Max that, but until that point that's on the agenda by 6:00. Thank you. [[After break – 15:00]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will continue our work after the break. We have two proposals for putting on the agenda the emergency procedure. Since 126 MPs are not present in the O.R., we won't be able to put them to the vote. We're going on where we left off. Do they want the word of the promoter's representatives? No, I don't. ) I conclude a unique search on the motions for decisions, point 17. Since we have conducted a single search on the motions for decisions, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motions for decisions, on the contested proposals, on the basis of Article 179(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, on the basis of Article 179 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and then of all other undeniable proposals in general. We're moving on to a search in detail. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – PROPOSATION OF THE PROFESSION OF DOPING IN SPORT (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs at the bill: Snježana Lakicevic-Stojačić, Vojkan Tomić, Natasa Jovanovic, Sreto Perić, Nemanja Sarović, Paja Momčiov, Vojislav Milajić, Vjerica Radeta, Zlatan Jovanovic, Mileta Pokurica, Ivan Radić and Zoran Antić. National MP Vojkan Tomic wrote a letter withdrawing the amendment to Article 34. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Youth and Sports and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. The legislative committee shall, on the basis of Article 144(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, carried out a legal-technical editorial of the text of the Law on the Prevention of Doping in Sports, which reads in Article 55(1) after the word "administrative" is added to the word "committee". Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The proposer's representative and the Youth and Sports Committee did not accept this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Sreto Peric has tabled an amendment proposing that in Article 4 and in all other members the words "anti-ping agency of the Republic of Serbia" be replaced by the words "anti-ping committee on the Olympic Committee of Serbia-Montenegro", in an appropriate decline. The proposer's representative and the Youth and Sports Committee did not accept this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21071	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 4. The proposal for a law on the prevention of doping in sport and replacing the word "anti-ping agency of the Republic of Serbia" in the first position with the words "anti-ping committee on the Olympic Committee of Serbia-Montenegro". Namely, the SRS believes that this law should be supported, i.e. it can be accepted on condition that amendments submitted by the Serbian Radical Party are accepted, so I have submitted this amendment to Article 4, and I suggest that, instead of anti-doping agencies, an anti-doping agency, as a body to carry out the procedure and procedure in co-operation with the World Anti-doping Agency and other teams, the Anti-doping Committee on Serbia-Montenegro is formed. I assume that the proposer's representative here, Mr Vuksanovic, is that this amendment could be accepted, and for the reason that in Article 33 of this law, where it is defined how many members the Agency's board of directors have, says there are 15, so it is proposed that two board members be appointed before the Olympic Committee for Serbia-Montenegro, which means that this amendment could be accepted. Speaking in the principle of this law, I said three reasons why this law should be passed, along with the amendments proposed by the Serbian Radical Party. This is primarily due to the health condition of athletes, although colleagues in the debate in principle said that antidoping is not only used by top athletes, which they certainly do to the greatest extent, but is used even in amateur sports, so it is also known to be used in recreational sports. In order for this action to be implemented fully, it is necessary to move with a broad action, start from the family, through kindergarten, schools and at all levels to do so. The minister made a statement saying that a law should be passed in Serbia where children who turned three would be obliged to go to kindergarten to begin that education as well. I have to make an example, and in the afternoon debate, when we talked about selecting legal holders, we mentioned certain names, although not in some positive context, but it was a necessary debate, which opened and illuminated certain things. As for what the minister suggested it would be good to pass a law where children would be required at the age of three to attend kindergarten, I don't use the opportunity in my presentations for the assembly speaker to address myself in such a way, but I will have to mention one small place, one small collective and one name. The place is Ljubovija, a collective is a children's nursery, the name is Dušica Vasic, the director of that kindergarten, which together with fellow citizens, i.e. people living in Ljubljana and all engaged in that children's institution "Poletarac" managed to create fantastic and good conditions, where and without the adoption of this law on compulsory attendance of a school full of three years already there are problems to accept those children, i.e. they all settle in as many as they appear. I have to get back to the beginning of what I said about this amendment. If we didn't form this agency, so that means that we focus this year or at this point to expand capacity in Ljubljana, and next year and next months for other places, that would be much better, because there are our young people who can tomorrow become potential users of anti-doping funds in sport, and in life at all. Therefore, the Ministry of Education and Sports should actively engage in the solution to these problems, and also accept this amendment and other amendments to the Serbian Radical Party, so that this law can be adopted, perhaps the SRS MPs support the law, and this would surely return first to our youth, and then to all Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21072	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21073	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I wish I didn't understand the gentleman who spoke before me, because all that he suggested was Hitler in his time, so-called. Kindergartens. Simply, at the age of three, a child needs a family care, because it then acquires some basic life habits. It would be very dangerous for someone to legislate that I have to put my child in a nursery just because it's meant to be. I think we need to find space for the family to give some basic life views, and then of course there's a good parent's will or a parent's understanding whether he's three years old or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21074	Replica, MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21075	Apparently, my colleague didn't understand me. I wasn't saying we should pass such a law, that's what the Minister of Education and Sports said, and I said we don't have to have such laws, but if we do something, if we create some preconditions, then the children will be very happy to go to kindergartens. Before that, I said, to carry out this action until the end of time, that we must lead a broad action, start with the family. My colleague, I agree with you, only you didn't understand me at all. I do not advocate the passing of such a law at all, but only the minister made such a statement. I can show you that. I'm saying we don't have to have such laws, and we can have such fantastic results that kids want to go to kindergarten and spend a certain amount of time in kindergarten and that shows extremely good results. That's what I'm talking about. I'm sorry you didn't listen to me carefully enough or have other visions, but that's your problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21076	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojkan Tomic. The proposer's representative and the Youth and Sports Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The proposer's representative and the Youth and Sports Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. The proposer's representative and the Youth and Sports Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The proposer's representative and the Youth and Sports Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The government and the Youth and Sports Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The government and the Youth and Sports Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the chapter above Article 26 and Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The proposer's representative and the Youth and Sports Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Vojislav Milajić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21077	Ladies and gentlemen, by amendment to Article 26 and the title above Article 26. The SRS has a different concept than the one proposed by this law. The proposal for this law provides for a doping control agency, and the SRS is in the view that the Committee already exists, with the SCG Olympic Committee, which deals with this problem and that the unnecessary establishment of a doping control agency is necessary. The amendment reads: "Antidoping is an authority with the SCG Olympic Committee, whose organisation, jurisdiction and mode of work is governed by the SCG Olympic Committee, in accordance with the requirements of the World Anti-doping Agency. "When the minister explained the bill's proposal, he stated that the existing Committee on the Olympic Committee, which was formed in 1997, did not live and did not perform its post properly. They came to the conclusion that it is better to establish a doping control agency than to the Olympic Committee. In view of the competences given in Article 30 of this Act, it is taxed, there are 21 points describing the Agency's work, and it is apparent that only administrative tasks are carried out by the Agency. So, it determines some work programme, control of athletes in international, domestic competitions, control of athletes in training, announced, unannounced, publishes professional literature, organises seminars, education, communication with international sports organisations, exchange of experiences with sports alliances both in the country and abroad. The agency, in fact, is only doing administrative work. In addition, she does licensing controllers who will perform antidoping control and taking samples from athletes. However, the most important part concerns the technical equipment of a laboratory that will carry out anti-doping control. Article 30, which is closely linked to Article 26, which is subject to the amendment, provides that the Agency shall designate health organisations to carry out anti-doping control. So they're going to evaluate what organizations are technically equipped to be able to control samples taken from athletes. However, point 8 of the same Article 30 states that the anti-doping agency is to provide the necessary equipment for the analysis of doping samples and the necessary anti-doping controls. Now there's a little illogicality. If, on the one hand, the anti-doping agency licenses certain health institutions that can carry out this kind of control which, by nature of things, is quite complex, it is illogical that it takes care of the equipment and means of those organisations to carry out that kind of control. In fact, the situation should be reversed. This means that those health organisations that meet the conditions, which have the appropriate equipment, have personnel that can carry out that kind of control, can get a license to check athletes, not vice versa, that anti-doping agencies provide funds and equipment so that these healthcare organisations can control them. In our country, that kind of control can only be performed by clinical hospital centres. They only have equipment that could be used for antidoping control. The state should provide some major resources, if it wants to carry out anti-doping control, to which it would equip clinics so that they can run all kinds of analysis of those substances that, according to the World Anti-doping Control Agency, are on the list of prohibited funds. That equipment is quite expensive and it's self-checking athletes whether they've taken illegal funds or not it's expensive enough. Mostly, for certain types of controls, international laboratories of those countries that have greater technical equipment and better staff have been used to determine doping. As for the list of unauthorized funds, the World Anti-doping Control Agency publishes that list every year and complements new funds used in various types of sports. The World Agency is primarily founded to control the market of medicines used in sports, not only in sport, because much more doping means is by gyms, fitness clubs. So, at those sports centres where people deal with certain sports activities, unrelated to competitions. It's not just about competitions, much more doping funds are used for recreational purposes, because it's now some trend in the West, especially in the United States. A very developed black market for doping funds, which can even be equated with the drug market. This World Agency was formed to put the doping market under control, because besides doping funds, there are means to clean up athletes, i.e. These funds should allow athletes who appear in major competitions to be tested negatively, i.e. today or at any time not in the urine, in the blood of the funds banned according to the World Drugs Organisation list, and that is all in the performance of the results. It is evident that sport has so advanced in the last 20 or 30 years that world results and world records have shifted their limits. I'd just like to tell you that in the '30s Johnny Weissmiller was the first man to swim 100 meters below one minute of freestyle. Today is the world record below 50 seconds. So in about 60 years, the world record at 100 meters has been moved in 10 and more seconds. It is simply not possible and everyone knows it, but is just a race of great countries in which they will clean up their athletes and prove their superiority against other nations. You know, for example from Seoul, it was 1988: at the Ben Johnson Olympics caught him taking anabolics; he had a severe muscle injury and to repair that injury he took anabolics and failed to clean up, so the doping test was positive and his gold medal was taken away. But Karl Lewis wasn't caught because he was cleaned up in time, because simply no one can run under 10 seconds without taking any extra funds. The problem is with these big competitions that no one will follow the competitions where the results are 30% weaker than when the illegal funds are used. The whole sport and the pharmacology industry is in the function of money, because huge money is turned into sport and no one is going to allow that luxury to fall in ratings and the very fall in public's view and interest in sport, so much less money. There's a lot of money going around, they're investing, but they're looking for top-notch results. You probably know that in the NBA league no doping control is forbidden, not that it is not, but that it is banned, so no one is in control of the NBA players. At the Athens Olympics, the only NBA players were excluded from doping control, they were the only ones who had the privilege of not going to doping control because of the quality of basketball, because the American basketball Federation conditioned – or you will ban doping control of American basketball players or we will bring a student team, and then you will watch some lower level of basketball. A compromise has been found that NBA players can participate in the Olympics, but with no doping control, so it is evident and everyone knows that doping is used. The world's pharmacology industry has met unsuspecting conditions regarding the use of doping and the means to clean up the organism, i.e. preventing the anti-doping commission from determining in general the taking of unauthorized funds. Finally, I would say that the better concept of the board as it has been so far, so the committee at the Olympic Committee that has done the doping control, that this is a better solution and that this solution should be supported and the anti-doping control committee should be trained by the Olympic Committee, because the controls would be much better and the results of the controls would be recorded. Here through the establishment of this agency and the way of funding as envisaged, through donations, but donations to that kind of control would only, in fact, be an opportunity to manipulate and control certain athletes; meaning, some who invest certain money in the agency would protect their athletes from doping control. On the other hand, competition would get doping control and eliminate those competitors who are directly competitors. By giving licenses to controllers and giving licenses to authorised laboratories that perform anti-doping control, the agency will create a monopoly in our country, which will be expensively charged, because these controls by nature things are quite expensive. The Serbian Radical Party is in the view that this amendment needs to be adopted and remains on the concept that the Olympic Committee committee will be the one to monitor, control, propose regulations, amend the rules relating to doping control, doping lists, monitor the implementation of these decisions, propose certain measures, informing the public, maintain seminars, educate athletes and citizens. It should all be on the Olympic Committee committee, not in this agency, because we think that the Olympic Committee is much more competent for this type of work, because in that committee, all former top athletes who did not take these illegal funds in their time are bitterly fighting the use of unauthorized funds. We remain that this amendment should be adopted and that the concept should go that way for the Olympic Committee to take control of the doping itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21078	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Verica Radet, proposed to delete Articles 27, 28, 29, 32, 33, 34, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43 and 55. The proposer's representative and the Youth and Sports Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The proposer's representative and the Youth and Sports Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojkan Tomic. The proposer's representative and the Youth and Sports Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The government and the Youth and Sports Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milet Poscurica submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Youth and Sports Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Mileta Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21079	Ladies and gentlemen, the point of our amendment is that we said in principle that we did not accept the anti-doping agency, since we have a committee that could do it. However, when more detail is entered into the reason why we are against this agency, it is quite clear that it is the indefinity of many other things, institutions that are introduced by law. It's extremely unclear, if we go into the methodology of what the agency is putting on its own as a task, from establishing a methodology for collecting samples, reviewing, because the fact that we don't have a reference laboratory that could do this to us... As far as I've asked myself, although I really don't know much about sports, but it doesn't bother me that I can discuss things that are close to me... So if we don't have a reference laboratory closer, except for Athens, as far as I know, and it's possible there are some, although there's no authorised representatives from the executive government here, but to Athens there's a big road, there's a mass of possible places where there's a change of composition, quality, results, and sanctions that a potential athlete can hang are quite serious. In that sense, we think that the agency's operation and body formation that could replace one body that already exists is merely agglomeration and build-up of work, is an obligation for some other people. This is neither rational nor meaningful, as well as the fact that this law was passed before the law on sports, since some of our findings provide for quite fundamental changes in this sport law as well. It is possible that it would be more logical when you see a way of organising sports activities to go into the fight against doping. I think this is premature, let's just say, sublawly, although he's not a sublegal act, but the law is a lower rank compared to the general, more comprehensive law, and that would be the law on sports. Of course, I don't know exactly what led the legislator to show up with a project like this. We simply wanted to point out that part of the essential contaminants and constructively solving this problem in this way, according to our general position, we do not multiply the administration, experts. If this multiplication has taken place, and the structure of the committee itself and the number of members, a small number of doctors, a small number of people from the profession, is obviously the absence of sports medicine specialists, even a number of them, experts. Even the one who wrote this bill might have been able to help himself, along with the people of the government he arranged with by writing such a bill, could have given himself more rights, simply to the profession that knows it best, which is sports medicine. But simply, the law is full of indeterminateness and we are really based on several essential amendments, because the law requires a much more basic arrangement than this is suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21080	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojkan Tomic. The proposer's representative and the Youth and Sports Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The government and the Youth and Sports Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojkan Tomic. The proposer's representative and the Youth and Sports Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojacic. The government and the Youth and Sports Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Ivan Radic submitted to the 35th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Youth and Sports Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Ivan Radic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21081	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I submitted to Article 35. I suggest that this member be deleted. Namely, this amendment is in line with the amendment to Article 4, which was submitted by counterpart Sreto Peric and refers to the anti-doping control agency. You are probably well aware of the principled position of the Serbian Radical Party that we are against the agency as an administrative body with the Government of the Republic of Serbia. There are no rational reasons for the formation of a new agency whose purpose is actually to introduce an administrative apparatus, in order to employ party personnel. It was quite a funny explanation of Minister Vuksanovic on the Committee on Sport and Youth when this law was under discussion, which he said about – the agencies you think about and me are the same as you are, because those agencies formed by the previous government and which were pretty much abused, but these agencies that today form the Government are quite different. According to us from the Serbian Radical Party, there is no difference. I don't know if Minister Vuksanovic thought these agencies were good just because today they have the personnel of this government, or this assembly majority that is currently in the Republika Srpska Assembly. It is completely unclear why anti-doping controls are not placed in the jurisdiction of the Anti-doping Committee on the Olympic Committee of Serbia-Montenegro, because this is also his nature of business and it is quite logical that this committee does so. This is how it gets the impression that it's just about forming a parallel institution that I repeat once again, you're only going to use to hire your party personnel. It is completely unclear, despite the existence of justified reasons for the adoption of such a law, why it is now in the process of many and much more important problems facing Serbia. It is unclear why this government prevents one anti-doping control law from, say, discussing the situation in Kosovo and Metohija today in Serbia. If you already wanted to have some sport law on the agenda, then it's unclear why you didn't put one systemic law on sports that would finally be dealt with by a mob that is now ruling in sports, which today destroys one of the most professional football clubs in the country, and of course nothing better is the situation with other sports in the Republic of Serbia. Besides, the results say it best. Get in the way of the mafia, finally be accounted for, don't turn your head, and it is a shame that today when the debate on amendments to this bill has no minister, who obviously has far more important and cutting jobs than to listen to reasoned remarks from MPs in the interpretation of amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21082	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21083	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will refer to my colleague Ivan Radic's discussion, who submitted a perfectly reasonable amendment, just like all other Serbian radicals, to the proposal for a law to prevent doping in sport. Today we held a joint session of the Committee on Education and Sports and the Committee on Trade and Tourism. We have considered a very important issue and a phenomenon in our society, which concerns incident situations on student trips, because of all these unkind events that you have read and heard about. Why am I saying this? Because today we as the MPs are not at all on that committee, precisely because of many rooted negative and destructive phenomena in our society, especially among young people, which is not only in the failures of the agencies, which there are, not only in the failures of schools, which are also by the directors and educators, we cannot generalise it, we are talking about something that is a general phenomenon and has long left behind roots and what needs to be prevented. In addition to all these global hardships that we have, we cannot count on generations being placed here in a healthy society and primarily preserving the state and a healthy nation, if we do not engage in dealing with such destructive phenomena as doping in sports. I spoke, and last time I spoke directly to the minister, about this phenomenon, that many famous names of our sport, such as former Olympic Committee President Dragan Kicanovic, the celebrated representative, Duzio Simonovic and others, contributed to their youth and later, while generations were learning to deal with this sport, that these phenomena were not happening. However, this legislation alone is not sufficient. You can see that on this case of student excursions, which I have linked, because it is also a negative phenomenon that all this is happening, and it has always been, as has been doping in sports, which is also talked about by Kicanovic and Simonovic, in the 1970s and at the Olympic Games and at world championships. It's impossible to get rid of it with one law. But if you want to pass the law to prevent this phenomenon, that law must make sense. You cannot invent any agencies, and the agency has an agency, as we had the tobacco agency, then Dinkic shut down, says it puts everything under its ministry. It's unnecessary, it's spending money. Why not give in to youth mass sport, why are we so neglected sports halls, sports courts and all that is needed, and what is propagating from its establishment of the SRS, so that children and youth can focus in the right direction. As for the amendment of fellow Members Ivan Radic, he is indeed just a follow-up to our position. The anti-doping committee, according to the Serbian Radical Party, needs to be established within the Olympic Committee, which should deal with these problems and that each of these phenomena registers, recognises and sharply condemns them, in addition to all these penalties and disqualifications in case they use forbidden funds. In the voting day, you should consider not only these amendments to this law, but everyone else. And the fact that although you're not too tired, yesterday the Assembly worked for two hours, you're not interested at all, I'm talking to you as many of you as there are from the congregation majority, which is what we're talking about here, why we're so argumentated and with a lot of zeal we're trying to advocate that you accept all proposals from the Serbian Radical Party. You'll see sooner or later that we were right. After all, the confirmation was sufficient today to recognise Minister Vuksanovic himself after his presentation on the subject mentioned earlier that he absolutely agrees with everything I said and that he could sign it. It doesn't flatter me, nor does the SRS, but it's enough evidence that we're right and we always knew we were representing the real interests of children, youth and athletes. I will finish, although there is plenty of time, because our secretary-general and deputy head of the Parliament group, according to the Rules of Procedure, has one very important announcement to make.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21084	Anyone else want a word? You're looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure, here you go, Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21085	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this few of us in the O.R., I see there are radicals and some few people from G17 plus, the others are gone. I guess they have better things to do. There's three of them from the DSS. We are today discussing amendments to the law on doping, anti-doping and who knows what, the moment the state is threatened from all sides and the moment we have to have smarter topics on the agenda. I went out to say this because a session of the Kosovo Assembly is scheduled for 17 November to vote on Kosovo's independence. We didn't get any of the only papers we should be discussing here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We didn't even get the talks to know what it is that Serbia is going to take as countermeasures, whether after that it even makes sense for Serbia to enter into any talks and negotiations with those who directly want to bring down its territorial integrity and sovereignty. It seems to me that the highest state officials... In doing so, I don't mean the MPs, no matter how hard it is for me to admit that there are only those from G17 plus with Serbian radicals, and the others are nowhere to be found. For the sake of the public, there are parliamentary groups that do not have any MPs in the room. They seem very smart, so they decided to deal with some business, and I don't know which one. There are some things that make you cry. I know that the president of Serbia has nothing better to do than look in mirrors and make beautiful posters against his political opponents. What do I do to him? He's sending bodyguards, so they're being chased by women with umbrellas and they don't know where they're going to run. They're gonna have to cut that Tarzan's hair. What I'm saying is very serious. I would ask you, Mr. Chairman, you're a reasonable man, you wouldn't accidentally leave such a bad party that you left, please influence the president of the National Assembly, the state leadership to do something about it. I came out to tell you one more thing, why and how our country can't get far. Namely, visiting Serbia for several destinations, among other things wanted to visit the SRS, representatives of the Republic of Serbia's Paris Bureau of the Republic of Serbia, representing Patrick Bario; he came to visit the Federal Assembly, wanted to come to the MP Dragan Todorovic and Serbian Radical Party MPs. Zoran Shami forbade him from entering. They sent special police forces to one man, with one woman, a ban on entering an MP. Whatever I'm saying -- he's crazy, he's not clean, he's clean, he's one way or another, you're gonna say hate speech, like that. What does a man have to say to him? We had a normal meeting, we ended up meeting, we talked about how and how they harass Serbs west of the Danube, what they do against them, talk about the future, the idea of the Serbian Krajina, etc. We had normal conversations and we're done. What was wrong with Shami? Did something happen to him in the meantime? Did that make him cry and cry every day as the opposition attacks him, so he'll fight them? The minister who appears yesterday will forgive me Serbian citizens who are watching this, because it is too serious, it is the skin of every citizen, and I am confident that you MPs, whether it is he who was yesterday with Vlahovic and Labus around the EU, appears and says: "Serbia and Montenegro are together and when they are not together, and they are not together and when they are together, ha, ha, ha". What can I say? All I'm saying is, "Uncles in white" take matters into their own hands. And a man dies of laughter. What did that mean, I ask you who are with them in the coalition, explain to me – we are not together and when we are together, we are together and when we are not together. What kind of message is that? What's he up to? For Serbia-Montenegro or for independent Montenegro? For what? What kind of country do we have? What's that? Everyone runs their own politics. The more crazy the message he sends, the more he laughs. (President: You're out of time. I did, Mr. Michaelovich, thank you for letting me say this. Please, I have called on Article 104 to fulfill this formality, you are very kind, and I ask you to pass on these requests from the Serbian Radical Party MPs that we have an urgent debate on Kosovo and Metohija at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, I promise you that we will ask all the ladies, especially these older ones, who, with umbrellas, are chasing the bodyguards of the Democratic Party, who have nothing better to do at a time when Kosovo and Metohija are threatened than to have beautiful idiotic posters against their political opponents, not to beat them anymore. We promise them that, and we guarantee you, Mr. Chairman, we are looking forward to a serious debate on the future of Kosovo and Metohija, because this is much more important than the story of doping and anti-doping. We will correctly and specifically continue to talk about all topics that are on the agenda, but we ask you to take care of the citizens of Serbia, because if you will tell me that 100,000 drug laws are more important than Kosovo and Metohija I will tell you that this is not true. We don't have a different subject and put it on the agenda already. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21086	Anyone else want to talk about an amendment to Article 35? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The government and the Youth and Sports Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojkan Tomic. The proposer's representative and the Youth and Sports Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 37th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojkan Tomic. The proposer's representative and the Youth and Sports Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojkan Tomic. The proposer's representative and the Youth and Sports Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The proposer's representative and the Youth and Sports Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21087	In the hope that what Mr. Alexander Vukic was saying had reached the most responsible in this country, I would have returned to the law and to the anti-doping control agency. Many things have already been said, many have been said by my fellow Serbian Radical Party MPs, and I don't think it's much of a newspaper for Serbian citizens that our principled commitment is against agencies, and in this case, it's in place. We are aware that we are in the transition process and that there are many institutions that need to introduce us into some richer, happier life, in a more serious and stronger economy, but it is a big problem that very often we form institutions that we do not need. What may be an even bigger problem is that we do not often have real control over these institutions, because the state institutions have not yet gotten used to them. There's very little transparency that the SRS insists on. This is also the case with the Anti-doping Control Agency, and I would once again in the name of the Serbian Radical Party, on behalf of all of us, express my dissatisfaction with the fact that another agency is established, that the agency has not joined the Olympic Committee. Because the fact is that within the Olympic Committee there are much more opportunities for control of this agency, and also that all top athletes would be familiar with doping events, worldwide achievements, possibly by means of control. I would say once again that it is quite certain that at this very moment this agency means increasing public spending, which in any case is being advocated by the SRS, that with too much administration we have already come to a very difficult situation; this is also seen by international institutions and our country has more and more problems in economic policy thanks to the fact that very little public spending is being taken care of. At the end of this doping debate, I would like to say that the Serbian Radical Party's wish is that the government, that the majority of the assembly break up with the practice of creating institutions that are unnecessary and that cost the citizens of Serbia needlessly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21088	Anyone else want a word? Here you go, Miss Jovanovic. Also a notice: today we will only work until the debate is completed in particular on the second item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21089	All the negative phenomena in society and incomprehension of reality and what is the priority today, what needs to be discussed and discussed, as Mr. Vukic said, it does not surprise me at all when we have such a president of the Republic. The President of the Republic, who is antitalent to recognize what the real values are, interferes with everything and everything, including our professional sport. If he was able to – and thus not only embarrass himself, but the institution he represents – to say that Platini in Belgrade hails as a celebrated goalkeeper, what should we say about this Democratic Party, and about their thieves and the way you accepted the triggers, I mean the government of Kostunica, and the Vuxanovic Ministry and all of you, as the continuity of the former government to set up the agency. Now for any of you to ask if you have read this draft budget, which is fast-tracked with all the IMF dictatorships delivered by Mladjan Dinkic, it is also a question of how much it will cost to prevent doping in sport; the same question is whether one of you can give us this answer, and it is pointless to convince you how many of you there are in the hall when there are no representatives here. They absolutely don't care, they know that they blindly fulfil all the conditions that come to them from the outside. At the end of this debate in the details of the law on the prevention of doping in sport, one question arises – how is it even possible that anyone with any morals or honor, when they know how many hungry children there are, and there are over 800,000 in the country, how many hungry people without work, two and a half million people below the poverty line, set up a doping agency in sport, and they haven't asked those same people and those children if they have basic conditions for life, whether they have equipment, whether they can go to class in physical culture and whether children in certain areas who are not sufficiently developed have everything they need to do with sport, whether they have sports halls, whether they have the necessary equipment? I have to remind you of one of the "cases" after your failed, failed five-octobaric coup, because everything you've based on politics has later gone wrong, the people have read, seen you lie and deceive and turned to the SRS. Dr Branislav Blazic, today the prominent president of the Kickind municipality, as minister, wants to help some of the young people get more involved in sports and have better conditions, bought a set of uniforms for a football club, which, of course, as well as many of these clubs and sports companies in the country, has no money broken or in a difficult situation. We don't have the law on sports and professional sport isn't the right thing to say, that area has yet to be settled and we have yet to discuss it in this high house. For two years, DOS led by the then finance minister, with your orchestrated support from the DSS and everyone who supported it, talked to all the bells about having filed, imagine, criminal charges against Dr Blazic for buying one club of youth uniforms. You can, without considering all these other issues and this misery and poverty that has hit Serbia, press the voting key and vote on the budget of the new agency, and now you don't know how much it is, and there are many millions of dinars, as well as all those who cost many citizens of Serbia. Think about it and follow this only rational path, if you want to show up as a thrift, and you're not, because I'm the finance minister it's not, his most expensive rolling stock, the President of the Republic is the same; angry, hanged, who drunk billionaires behave and do what they want, and on the other hand the representatives of the IMF come to them – reduce public spending. The easiest thing to do is to take from the hungry, from the sick, from the health workers, from the pensioners, from the educators. Here you go, gentlemen, think about where and in what way, with these laws rising from month to month and with an increasing number of agencies, you run Serbia. That's not a good direction, that's what citizens know and that's why they can't accept such a policy of yours, and especially the arrogant spending of money in huge amounts, while on the other hand maybe dozens of people or who knows how long you or we've been waiting in front of the Assembly or the president's building to ask for basic help for the cure, to pay the bill, the job or what they need most.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21090	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Member of the 55th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojkan Tomic. A representative of the proposings and the Committee on Youth and Sports accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we have completed a search of the Bill's proposal in particular, I conclude the search of the Bill's proposal in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Security and Health Safety Law (Statistics) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Ljiljana Nestorović, Meho Omerović, Mileta Poscurica, Paja Momčilov, Miroslav Nedeljković, Dragan Zivkov, Dragoljub Anasovski, Milovan Radovanović, Branislav Rankić, Momir Marković and Vjerica Radeta, as well as the Committee for Labour, Borary and Social Affairs. You have received reports from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs are proposing to the National Assembly to reject this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Mezo Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs are proposing to the National Assembly to reject this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs are proposing to the National Assembly to reject this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs are proposing to the National Assembly to reject this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milet Poscurica submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose to the National Assembly to reject this amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21091	In our amendment, we wanted to clarify the situation a little bit that something that was accepted in our earlier legislative practice and, as I was saying in the principle debate, our countries in the environment, in determining so-called. We wanted to say preventive measures with our amendment in the written version, and we added that it was necessary to stress the importance of work by effect. Not only because it was related to earlier production technology, but it would be especially useful to protect those employed in the private sector, who will have to work on a large norm or work by effect. The meaning of this is fully known and it is an absolute term which is not unknown, and at least it contains the logic given by the Government, a representative of the Government for this amendment, representing this subjective relationship of the employee to work. Indeed, working by effect is not a subjective relationship, unless the exception is that every employee, especially now that they receive very small wages, is certainly motivated to do more, but it goes to a certain limit, to a measure of exhaustion, when losing attention, is no longer able to work, especially a simple and monotonous job that would work from week to week, year to year. We wanted to make a certain commitment to the employer in predicting preventive measures. The answer that such a declarative decision, or real, will be contained in Article 4, as the Government replied, is not clear enough, because this adjustment is very broad. He can say that he adapted himself to the workplace and to the working environment, bright enough, warm enough, clean enough, go ahead and work, but if you produce more, you'll be paid more, so that motive really exists in legislative practice. It's quite an insurmountable explanation the government has given for refusing the amendment. This would not technically reduce the importance of the law, and it would mean a lot to the employees, so that they would not be exploited. Today, private sector employees are very spent, very used, very abused. A lot of them don't get paid, they don't get regular tax returns, they're being chased by an inspection, and then you have the presidents of municipalities complaining about inspectors being overly prominently present in their, especially small, municipalities, where traffic falls. So the circle of mutual mistrust, mutual dissatisfaction, conflict of different levels, even authorities and powers at, say, one of the local levels, which could have been regulated by law, brought into order, and that in creating preventive measures, especially when creating a strategic plan that leads, not to say, to an action plan, as in this bill, it would be called a risk assessment act, because it would be an integral part of the risk assessment elements. That's why we think it would be useful to adopt this amendment in the voting day, because actually the employer should take care of how he norms the work of an employee, whether he makes it, regardless of what he writes in the labor contract or secretly works more and thus puts himself at greater risk of getting sick, because he works in poor conditions, for hurting if he works a lot on mechanical sets.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21092	The word is by MP Nikola Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21093	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in favour of this debate, I'd like to say a few sentences. It is clear and understandable why the Labour Safety and Health Act has been amended. I have seen the basis of the existing law in part two of safety and safety at work, said Article 6 - the company is obliged to take appropriate measures to protect the health and safety of workers at work. The current text has been rephrased and what were the general provisions are now preventive, what was security as common provisions, so there is no substance, there is no policy, or ideological difference. It is a technical regulation and it is not difficult if standards and sciences of the existing, protection at work are respected. There are colleges, regular studies, postgraduate studies, there are institutes that deal with this area. I've changed my name, how it's going to fit into the application of these regulations, it's a story again to think about the promoter. In the principle debate, I mentioned one factory in the area of Majdanpek, criticising the bill and pointing out to the resolution minister that in respect of the application of the rules in the field of protection at work, it had not been taken care of enough, and today it is not taken into account enough. Few people listened to that debate from the afternoon, because they were at work and from what later was the effect of the debate, from the news, the epilogue was that the existing directors, fearing the minister's intervention in order to find out what was really going on in that factory, went through the factory, made-up workers, brought the media, the media correspondents from the local community, to show that this state of affairs was not what was said in the debate. My intention wasn't back then, not today, even though I didn't mention the factory or the product... It was wanted to be shown in local media as an attempt by an opposition party to reduce the chances that the factory in the privatisation process would sell well, which was not my intention. The factory has a perspective, has an interesting production program, but must be brought into line with the regulations that apply in this country. That debate from a few days ago had an effect. He says they ransacked the factory, cleaned up some jobs, gave the workers new work coats, painted them up, dressed them up. They only had a problem with those workers who had left the factory because of their health impairment, so in the phase of treatment, going out to grade their work ability or long-term health came to the factory and found out that journalists were coming, to be seen and faced. They weren't allowed into the factory. The result was that journalists, learning the details of both sides, wrote a large text, correspondents "Politicals" and "Blica". Normally, these newspapers do not have enough space to publish everything local journalists want to say, because there is not enough space to publish a broad text. That's why you couldn't read everything that was written in that paper. Not to be too long, to repeat once again: so the factory has a perspective, but it has to be smart executives, directors and management structure. In factories there should be no policy, but a profession, a technological process, a work organisation, protection at work. Then that factory will be able to work well and do a good job and sell nicely.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21094	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs are proposing to the National Assembly to reject this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Mileta Poscurica. One explanation: in case we don't finish up to 1800 hours, we're going to extend as far as we can to this point. In case we really finish around 1700 hours of debate, there are only four amendments that are being discussed under the next law, so we can make an effort to finish this by 1800 hours. We're paid to work and we're not running away from it. Once again, we certainly won't extend our working hours, it's not controversial. I don't think there's gonna be any need. Here you go, Mr. Pocurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21095	With this amendment, we wanted only to correct, but not in that formal sense, point 1) of Article 15, which states in the bill: "The employer is obliged to appoint a person for safety and health at work by means of an act in writing". Here we added one, now I see, when I analyzed the post-festum, perhaps the unfortunate word "responsible person", because when the government, the legislator, discussed the amendment, called for what was in the brackets of Article 4 of point 21), where under that "responsible person" they imagined something else. I even put myself in this handiwork, while writing, either authorized, or representative, or a face that age, etc. In order for it to be grammatical and syntaxically correct, it was necessary, once you have determined a person, that person gets some prefix as a responsible person, because for sure and in practice we will be faced with the fact that the directors will be people who won't have to or won't want to know much about the technology of their work. Then they will surely be able to determine someone on their behalf and wait for the inspector and follow the acts on behalf of the employer. In fact, the point was, if the promoter had carefully analyzed our idea here, he would have seen that this proposal might technically change and put another word, some other adjective, which would be "responsible", I don't know. Then it would be quite clear that this amendment could go smoothly. So the intention was the fact that normally many legislations know that someone in a sector can empower, both a legal person and a natural person, and a financial person and a person responsible for health or for safety and health at work. So, the point was that. The answer offered has gone quite far, in terms of overlapping with the synonyms, so we think that even as it would stand, it might be accepted and not be in significant cohesion, according to the content of point 1), in order to change, in any conflict with point 21) of Article 4, so I think it was only a matter of goodwill of the Proposer and, conditionally speaking, our MP who may have considered part of it, not to use a synonym, which in law can be sometimes dangerous and may sometimes be unacceptable, but in this case it is quite clear. It wouldn't come out of context what "the person in charge" means, so I guess it's responsible when something's in charge. That was the meaning of this amendment intervention, and in relation to some of the next members we will further explain this to our cause.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21096	Mr. Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21097	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we were pre-determining until when we were going to work and when it was said that we would only work in particular on this second item of the agenda, the President of the Assembly said "maybe". Let's move on to the amendment. National MP Paja Momcilov asked for a change in Article 15 in item 1(1), and for the person responsible for work security and health matters to be appointed by an act in written form. The answer given by the Serbian government is, in my opinion, unspeakable, and the right to tell you is a little unsatisfactory. In any law that has treated protection at work so far, at the first point when a person responsible is mentioned, it is mandatory to say "responsible person" and necessarily in written form to confirm his responsibility. Labour injuries are possible in any technological process and it must be determined who is who will see if all hygiene and technical measures are taken, etc. I don't see it overlapping, and I don't see Mr. Paja Momchilov's amendment asking, as he says here, by the provision of Article 38. The draft law finds that the person for safety and health at work is directly responsible to the employer in whom he conducts those tasks and that the amendment is therefore rejected. I think this is a little bit independent. He didn't ask for all the jobs of that responsible person to be written in this article, but to be given the solution that that person is responsible, that worker, if he's hurt by someone else's guilt, knows who to chase.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21098	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Please, MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21099	As a responsible MP for the even more responsible Serbian Radical Party, first of all, to tell you, Mr Markovic, it is easier for you in that position, not because you are in the position of the president, but because you are reading the synopsis that is ahead of you, so just as you would say our people, you are driving from the beginning to the end and to the end, and when you tell us, you will be moving from one law to another, and how you pack the laws into the agenda, from doping in sport to safety and health at work, we can do it all, but we need to know what matter we are coming from. (President: Please accept my apology. I accept your apology. You're very kind. As for Article 15 and the intention of Dr Paja Momchilov to define the responsible person at point 1), this as if it were an unfinished sentence – started by one of the associates of this Slobodan Lalovic, MP-minister, to write and stop, there is no further. Mr. Markovic is right, not only is it a practice in some other laws, it has to be a commitment here, because if all these points are listed further, then it must be known that it is not good or formulation. There was a mistake: "the act in written form determines the face", so now this "for safety and health at work"; it should stand at the end of "responsible face" and this "yes" not, but which will do so, to represent the person responsible for safety and health at work - the responsible person. Why do we have to point this out? Because the responsibility of someone who represents an employer is very important to the employee today. That is how they show all these performances that are coming to us MPs, especially members of the Committee on Business and Privatisation. Here, on Friday, the Committee on Business and Privatisation will consider some very bad solutions that have been made, in the opinion of employees, in many businesses in Serbia, say "Isolam" from Raca, I know that because the company in the area of the Forest County, and also in other privatised enterprises, where the employer, there have been many such cases, by those who bought this company is not even considering a minimum of social protection or programme, let alone these new technologies and that protection, which is referred to by Article 15. So that everything would be accurate and clear to the end and to know who it was... It may seem to you that we have submitted the amendment for amendments, but see that this first point does not make any sense. All of this, and to provide safety and health at work for employees, which, of course, many employers do not, and to train employees for safe and healthy work – please, where you saw it, and especially with many owners, these newly-compromised rich people or tycoons to do so. Imagine now that Bogoljub Karic provides someone with protection measures; if he could, he would push him out of the window, only to serve him for single use and what he cares about. He doesn't do anything but fictitiously launder money and millions of euros on his accounts, nor pays taxes or contributions to his employees. You have on his BK TV associates and journalists and those who work for ten or 15 years, women who can't become mothers, start a family, because they're afraid of getting fired. He's the president of some industrialist's association and he's getting alleged... But it pays all the money and those kids to sing to him in Japan, to give him plaques all over London. He's an industrialist and an employer. No one's going to protect the workers with that kind of behavior. Therefore, accept in the voting day this amendment in order to know and that at least in this area the intention of wanting order, to indicate which person is responsible for the employer's obligation in Article 15, as proposed by counterpart Paja Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21100	Here you go, Mr. Todorovic, you have four minutes. If I were to explain, I apologize, I was keeping an eye on Miss Jovanovic, thank you for accepting the apology, but I made sure that the representatives of all four amendments were here and I said if there was a possibility it would be very good to try for efficiency. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21101	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, in Article 15(1), have tried to say what is in the existing law in Article 55, where the company director's obligations are in the earlier text. So, from the existing law, from the field of protection at work, "Official Messenger" 42/91, and the changes that followed in 1993, twice in 1993, then in 1994 and 1998, where they stand out especially, so I'm going to tell you a few things now. But it can't be just a person who's in charge, and we used to call this person a protection officer or head of security at work, depending on how big a company it is. And the employer, the director of the company, the very manager and the worker who is in the process of production, they are all somehow responsible, each in their work, depending on the acts and laws that the area regulates, so that only the person to be responsible for all this is written in the law... Especially what the promoter says and boasts as if it were something new, something revolutionary, something good, how to introduce protection at work in small and medium-sized enterprises. Work protection is mandatory in all companies, or according to the new law as they are already called. In that sense, I don't know how well this article defines all the obligations of that person who will be in charge of safety and health at work. When this term "Health at Work" is mentioned often in the text of the members of the provisions of this law, it is more like a phrase than a real desire and an opportunity to affect the health of the employee. It is true that there is plenty of room in this area for the work and engagement of state authorities to check in all factories, depending on the technological process and the prescribed protection measures at work, depending on the general measures, specific and individual, what conditions and what protection are needed. In this part, if I have time, I'm just going to quote a few things from that article 55, there are over 15 provisions, and here you've given about eight. So he's sure, practically, of a 55th where you'll recognize what it's all about. So, that the worker is assigned to the place of work where labour protection measures have been implemented; that workers are entrusted with tasks that will not have adverse consequences for his health and safety; that access to an area where there is danger can only be given by workers who are given appropriate instructions, but that is rarely done with us. Furthermore, a working place with special working conditions shall be deployed by a worker who has been prescribed to meet specific conditions, i.e. a worker who does not fulfil the prohibition of further work at work with special working conditions. It doesn't apply anywhere and it's terrible abuses. So, if the worker says he can't work, you know what he's going to do -- he's going to get fired, he's going to go away and there's no protection, and today we've changed the regulations from the field to work, so it's possible and illegal to quit the worker and there's no protection, especially with respect to how many states he's able to protect the employees. Furthermore, Article 4a of the existing law, i.e. by modifying and supplementing Articles 4a, 4b and 4c, is added as new, so that the worker can be given a tool for working, means and equipment of personal protection against dangerous substances only if the documentation provided for by this law is provided. Furthermore, that a working and installation tool can be given to a worker only if their correctness is previously established in the manner and procedure prescribed by this law; that the worker can only work in the working environment where chemical and physical impairments are within the allowed limits. That's the problem with the nasty matter, where I asked the minister how we're going to measure the degree of disgust or disgust, I don't know how we're going to define these nasty substances if they're in our factories. Furthermore, if the means of work, i.e. the means and equipment of personal protection are excluded from use if they are invalid and if the resulting changes endanger the life and health of workers, there are also these cases. Furthermore, the means of work, i.e. the means and equipment of personal protection are used according to their purpose and used only by workers to whom they are entrusted; that alcohol or other means of addiction are not enjoyed during work; and that the worker who is under the influence of alcohol and other means of dependence is not allowed to be away from work and not to smoke at jobs where it is not allowed. Imagine, a worker who has health problems, especially in factories where daily damage is, and benefits from bencedine, so medications for calming and depression, so the factory director orders the doctor to conclude their sick leave, because there is no one to work in the factory, says he does not allow them to be sick and a worker under the fact that these funds come to the factory, works on a line where the norm has to be met. You know the consequences. Just two more sentences I would like to say, therefore, that when deploying workers to meet the dangers, harmfulities and protection measures at work, to prohibit the work of a worker who does not adhere to the prescribed measures of protection at work and instructions and who does not use the means and equipment of personal protection or refuses to follow the instructions for safe work. The responsible worker is obliged to take other prescribed measures of protection at work, and in this case he is the manager, and he is once the head of protection at work. Furthermore, to prohibit a worker who is not qualified for safe work, to prohibit the worker from working because he did not undergo a medical examination or has been found not to meet the health conditions, etc. So, that's all a factory director has to do, and a job protection reference, or a person, as you've now called him, as well as a manager, but that means more serious work and respect for workers, his dignity and ability to work and earn, and not to get fired if there's been a riot because of the failure to meet the conditions in the area of protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21102	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs are proposing to the National Assembly to reject this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Mezo Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs are proposing to the National Assembly to reject this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs are proposing to the National Assembly to reject this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs are proposing to the National Assembly to reject this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs are proposing to the National Assembly to reject this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has an MP named Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21103	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we went with one intervention in this article. A colleague, Nedeljković, felt it logical to add a new position in which in a certain way, the employer is legally bound or, behold, we return to what was related to the previous amendment, the person who authorised him and the official to share in matters of security in work with other persons, employees, inspection, people who bring new machines, equipment and when they are familiar with technology; in the future, a new law on standardisation will change something there, which we also have amendments on, because we could not anti-cipe the government's intentions when the law will be passed and concerning the Labour and Security and Health Act. The point of our intervention is that the employer or person to whom he transfers his authority in order for him to sit comfortably in his chair must know the basic things about labour technology, the elements of collective and personal protection at work, so they must have basic knowledge, not to be a person with a license, a licensed person for the whole company. You can also tell us now that it is in collapsing with the famous point 21) of Article 4, but it could also be done on the Legislative Committee to intervene and avoid that unfortunate permutation, the repetition of this word. Otherwise, it is a perfectly meaningful amendment and obliges that someone, both the director and someone who he powers, must know about technology, that in the end, in a convincing way, he might also appear in front of the workers, and eventually understand the act that he brings, which is an act that is basic, which will be a constitution for them, for implementation, that will be all. It's an act we don't know, it'll only be prescribed by the minister, it'll be helped by various agencies, but no one knows exactly what it'll look like yet. It would be very logical for the employer to know something about what the act will contain, how it will be implemented, what instructions, written, printed, signs and other ways to mark. He may have the authority to help him, but it is not against him to know anything about it, because he is the owner of everything and finally, that is the answer to everything, because you have well predicted in one of the former members that responsibility does not release him if any of the injuries occur from members of this law, especially the illness or injuries of employees. Therefore, in order to know more about it, he has to know something about it, and according to this, he doesn't need to know anything, but enough to hire someone, one or more persons, and even that's not precise, as some laws and solutions specify how many employees you have to have, how many persons for safety and health you have to have. Here is only a quota when they should have them and under what circumstances. Of course, we know that we can't correct everything with amendments, this law that's so unnecessarily amended and adapted to some other oscillations that we think would be better, but we are really standing at the point where Mr. Nedeljkovic's amendment is perfectly logical and should be accepted, because this basic training of an employee or an authorised employer is at least enough that he could take all the tests that workers in the workplace will take, that he knows their solutions, that he knows what the measures of fire protection are, which are means of fire protection, that when I'm as boss, he starts to control or in order to share the cancellations, he knows what he didn't do to him. He's not going to wear an act that can be 50 pages or read what's where he's publicly pasted as a notice. Why would it be bad for an employer or someone else, if he doesn't, and if he doesn't know any of that, no measure of individual collective protection... It will happen that someone will put a paper handkerchief to protect themselves from this or that, which has nothing to do with life, and they will say that it's a measure of individual protection, instead of taking a mask. We don't know why the government rejected this amendment, but it's obvious that such a law is proposed and adopted, but it's nothing new. That's how most laws are done, and that's how it is in many spheres, not just in this so-called. protection at work, not only do we know protection from who and what, but we're almost out of work.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21104	Thank you, Mr. Pocurica. The word is Mr. Markovic, according to the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21105	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when I read the explanation of why the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party MP Mr. Nedeljkovic was rejected, I first thought that this was what Minister Lalovic wrote in his party, so I remembered that he did not have a party and that he wrote this himself, and therefore this argument was unspeakable and unspeakable. The amendment of Parliamentarian Nedjeljković reads: "Employer or person to whom he delegates authority from the field of safety and health at work must be trained from the field of protection at work, especially in relation to the technology of work, procedures and measures of collective and individual protection that apply to their work. "The amendment is rejected for the reason in Article 37(2). The proposal for a law prescribed that safety and health services at work may be carried out by a person who has passed a professional examination, in accordance with this law. What about the change in technology, the change in production? Today, the factory owner is not paid to make a particular product, buy new technology, move on to a completely different type of product, the person in charge of the field of protection at work has passed the fire test, and this is where it all ends. Generally, owners of companies and directors of social and private enterprises transfer powers from the field of protection to a particular person who is professional, who has completed a university of protection at work, but in this case when technology is changed, he must first be introduced, and then he must meet each worker individually, or grouply with the dangers of a particular machine, a certain apparatus carries with it from the field of protection, with means of protection and only then can he be accessed. I don't know why this amendment was rejected, except Minister Lalovic doesn't like that this and all previous and future amendments were submitted by Serbian Radical Party MPs. Believe me, his law would have been much smarter and too high if he had adopted the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21106	Thank you, does anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? (No) Member of the 27th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs are proposing to the National Assembly to reject this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21107	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, rarely anyone in Serbia today advocates new technologies and that they have been applied. There are several factories that work, but when you look at what we've been best at, when it comes to the meat industry, the conditioning industry, we have a few good factories that have to stand up to the import lobby, because the quality of these products, say, in Soko Sturka, is far better than many other products that are on our market. You've known yourself since you were little that the "Soko Sturka" chocolates are by far the best product and that they can't even get much more famous brands to mate that product quality. When it comes to this new technology and how to get to it, we don't see anyone showing good faith, especially from the new owners of companies and companies, because they promise it, and it's the biggest dispute with workers and with the privatisation agency, and they don't invest anything in that new equipment. All of this, and even if it is the way it is, it's impossible for a worker who has a certain qualification for it or who's been through an institution (such as this famous one in Kragujevac, where no prequalification has been performed) to get overqualified, come to work for the factory press, you say – here you go, it's your place of work, go to work today, it's your working time, your norm is so big and earning some church girl. It is impossible not to accept the amendment submitted by counterpart Dragan Zivkov. That officer who comes to the bank to work, or any other company, that he's a clerk, has to work with the company's computer program to train for a short time, to know how to book, to know how to work, to know how to program the company, the system of work. So, if you don't accept the amendment in which your colleague says that after the word "worktime" you add the words "under the control of an employee who is trained in safe and healthy work", then I'm a member of the staff who doesn't make sense and you put it at a very high risk, because it will literally help that new, or any employer understand and throw into the fire of a new employee, without being able to help one of his colleagues with years of experience. Therefore, all amendments to this bill and how they make sense and are only a logical conclusion of something that Slobodan Lalovic started, obviously I am, but it is not enough and it is not good enough. We, who are very concerned about workers in Serbia and their health, about the situation in which they are located, and that is why we point out all these issues, ask you to reconsider and accept this and other amendments in the day to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21108	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. Anyone else want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP, Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21109	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to highlight one important component. I don't know how big our industrial giants are, how big, how big the flag, the blacksmith, the shit, the power to work. Having such a thing in mind and an uninterrupted promise that once we've done everything we've been asked of us, who can imagine what it would look like if an experienced worker who received a beginner, someone who trained, say, a student in practice, what he could give him -- a tip on the spot, right next to the machine where the tools for work, means of work, practical advice for protection and for the use of the means of personal protection. Never has any professional person who has been formally accredited, licensed, who has only a certain high professional equipment for such a thing, or a higher professional equipment, been able to provide it, because a very large number of injuries and accidents at work are happening precisely because there is not enough concrete experience related to the workplace. It is difficult to get any training, no matter how many months it lasts, into the most subtle secrets of the welder's work on the mechanical press, work on cranes, cranes, Maltese, molecular works, hard work on large objects. There are a thousand tiny details that only one who works, along with one who gets to work, can know. Let the legal solutions even suggest hiring the person who is just getting dressed and being fully prepared for work, getting a job contract. We didn't want the amendment to create this disadvantage, so that those who aren't dressed don't go through with the process of work. They should go. It takes long enough to spend time with whoever knows how to do it. I don't see what a pity it would be. The rapporteur's explanation says that in some cases it cannot be applied, it is only an exception to the rules. It is clear that when new technologies are introduced, new jobs, new work processes, someone must be the first. Maybe it'll be the man who came to install a machine from Germany, some German, so he'll be with them as an interpreter and a worker who'll continue to work later. It's not too much, it's not a drinking explanation. The simple way the government responded is about simply not accepting the amendment. Write down whatever it was that went too far, for nothing a colleague of Zivkov went there and thought about how to do the far-fetched thing, now they have found - has an authorized face; or if new technology is introduced, this member would not be very willing. Of course, it is clear that if a job is created for the first time, the procedure is completely different and there is no more experienced person. Even if he wanted the Legislative Committee, he could have changed it, he said – unless a job was created, but you did not read the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party carefully, so that this good amendment of fellow Zivkova did not understand. We believe that in the day of voting, if there is enough of those who have now listened to our reasoning and pass it on to their colleagues, you will adopt these interventions that are petty, which the spirit of the law will not change, against whom we are, but would be of great benefit to the employees.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21110	Thank you, Mr. Pocurica, and for your optimism. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Anastasovski. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs are proposing to the National Assembly to reject this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you want a word? Here you go, Mr. Anastasia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21111	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to the draft safety and health laws at work. In Article 27, at the end of Article 4, the point is deleted and the words "and must be done before the independent work of the employee begins". The amendment clarifies a rather vague formulation in this but also in other members of the bill, under which employees are trained only after the status of an employee for safe and healthy work. Let the legal solutions in other countries go to this point to propose that training be carried out before the employees start working, which we think would make the position of both the employer and the future employee more difficult. This proposal leaves the possibility of an uninterrupted establishment of a working relationship. Training for healthy and safe work does not condition employment, but it is precisely defined when employees become independent in their work. When adopting such a law, it was primarily necessary to consult those directly interested in this law, i.e. both the employer and the employee. This is a very important law. If strictly applied in many ways, it will contribute to better, better quality and safer work, i.e. to carry out work tasks. It is therefore necessary to hire inspection services or other competent authorities to control employers whether or not they comply with this law. It is also necessary to improve the work of medical work, that they do their job properly, not superficially and routinely. In most cases, workers working under extremely difficult conditions and difficult jobs are involved. These systematic checks should be taken into account. I'll tell you a story I personally participated in. We were with a group of medical workers working on the review, the review was done, finished, the next day our colleague passed away. Come on, man, what's going to happen, you can't avoid it. However, after 10 days, the results of the medical work by which the worker is fully healthy and capable of working at height and depth arrive. In order for this not to happen, attention should be paid to the work of medical work, to improve their work, to give them instruments, but also to make themselves known, to be able to perform their work. This law could be good and beneficial if strictly applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21112	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21113	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is really not clear why the Proposer has not adopted this amendment. In order to make it clear to you and to those who are watching this assembly session, I will also read this point 4 of Article 27, which reads: "The training for the safe and healthy work of the employee must be tailored to the specificities of his job". National MP Mr. Dragoljub Anastasovski requests that the point at the end of this position be deleted and the words "and must be added before the work of an employee begins". We are in a situation where technology is constantly progressing, we have opened the borders, our businessmen import new machines, import new technology, we come into the situation that only one of them is dressed, he has to train a whole group of workers who will work on that machine, especially those new ones they hire, and unless he puts them on before they start working on that machine on their own, don't prepare those people to get out and can work automatically, then what the MP Natasa Jovanovic said will really happen. He'll bring him to the machine, he'll tell him - it's a press, your norm is so much, it's eight hours your hours; if you take all 10 fingers home tonight, you take it, if you don't take it, what I can do to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21114	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs are proposing to the National Assembly to reject this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21115	Mr. President, since we're talking and we're on our way to Article 28, may I ask you where your minister is?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21116	It is not my minister, it is the Minister of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, chosen by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21117	You're his president, Mr. Markovic, and he's an MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21118	The representatives of the Ministry are here at the invitation of the President of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21119	Yes, but you know why I tell you that. If we are already considering Article 28 and the amendment submitted by my colleague, Milovan Radovanovic, and it is the only normal solution for this member of the law to carry out a new employee test in the appropriate premises, then I ask you because in the explanation signed by Minister Lalovic in response not to accept such an amendment by a colleague, Milovan Radovanovic, most factually replied that a test, i.e. a questionnaire or a written test for a new job, should be carried out. Now he needs to explain to us, really, again I mention that ad "move from place" and a skeleton, or some other construction site or snow clearing on the road, that in the conditions when he comes to the workplace to clear the snow on the Belgrade-Nish highway, when there is a huge blizzard outside -20, he will pass the test. If Lalovic explains how it is possible I will accept that he is not obliged to be here in the O.R., but indeed he is, with all that some think he should not listen or defend his position, because that kind of cynicism is only known to him and faces a very great condemnation from the citizens. If that were the case, and I didn't think it was just me and the SRS about Minister Lalovic that he was a big cynic, because that's the answer he gave, that people and in such conditions, and those on board, and those on board... Let's tell the pilot on the plane to take the test at work – really amazing. Theoretically, it could happen because he wrote it that way, and fellow Milvan tried to correct it. Among the many letters that arrive at the parliamentary group and our names came a letter signed by your fellow citizens, Mr Markovic, Belgraders who have signed as friends, people who are employed, some are retired, people who are university professors in retirement, who have been disproved because of the law you adopted and voted for in the Assembly, I mean not you, but your parliamentary majority, and listening to it in the Assembly and on various shows came to the conclusion that there is no larger cynic. It is his character and his manner of behavior and here in this party he does not have, as an independent shooter, but it is unacceptable to humiliate us and to give a fellow Radovanovic this answer. He could have said – that's enough that I wrote, or we're opinions, there are some solutions that are identical to this. But he can't find a solution either, because in all the countries in the environment and the countries in the West with which you harmonize, in most cases, these laws, the EU countries that are supposed to be introduced by this dying government, another month or day. The question is whether it will survive, 2012, 2024, I don't know what year, there is no such solution as that proposed by Lalović in Article 28, but exactly what is being said by a colleague Radovanovic – that an exam, written or written test should be carried out in this suitable room that qualified the new employee to continue to carry out the work, and that is only logical and normal. Where Lalovic could do that, and now we ask him, we don't know, because this is one of his first jobs in the right sense of words. He was a union man, he kept going, something like he rebelled, he rebelled, he made a deal with the employer, then he came; he sent this gentleman neither guilty nor due here to take notes, nor could he come out to tell us anything, maybe he agrees with our views. Isn't that right? Perhaps we've convinced you that the SRS's positions are more correct. I see by your reaction that you agree, but there is no minister here. The president of the assembly said -- I invited him, he didn't come. It's not an excuse and it's not right, especially when it comes to a law like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21120	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Cinism, as you know, is not prohibited by the Rules of Procedure, and it is neither a character.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21121	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, looking at this explanation why the amendment was rejected and all those previous arguments, and looking at this explanation until the end of the rejection of the amendment, I came to the conclusion that Minister Lalovic did not write this himself, but moved Mike and Lal and Canak and agreed and wrote this. Chanka, I know how he bought it. They gave him the post of chairman of the Board of Directors of the Employment Service. Mika and Lale must have disappeared somehow. Most of the time, only the damaged remain employers who will work under this law and the employees that will be uploaded by this law. National MP Milovanovic tried to correct something that is incorrigible. This bill of law that we have discussed in principle is an irreparable law. What it says is security, and it's not protection, I think Minister Lalovic reported it as a patent of innovation and is likely to get some kind of reward from the Serbian government for it. Ever since work was done, there's always been a means of protection at work. We know all of us who spent many years in halls, in workshops, in businesses, that was then called hygienic-technical protection and protection at work, fire protection, etc. It's security now. It's not a law on protection at work, but it's a safety law. Let's get back to the amendment. National MP Milovan Radovanovic asked in the amendment to amend Article 28 paragraph 2 and read as follows: "The examination of the theoretical training of a healthy and safe worker is carried out in the appropriate and for such occasions in the arranged rooms and the previous practical examination of the training carried out at the workplace of the employee. "The explanation of why Mika, Lale and Canak rejected this amendment says – it is rejected because both theoretical and practical knowledge of the measure for safe and healthy work should be checked at the workplace where the employee is deployed or already deployed. Miss Natasa Jovanovic said nicely, the one should be on the crane, 50 meters away, in his workplace to fill in the test of whether the current will shake you if you push your finger into the current. It's amazing stuff. Banalize something that takes the next day to protect all employees, no matter where the job is. The tests always took place either in the dining room or in some conference room in the company, and then it went out in the field and the fact that he filled out the test is being checked at the workplace next to the machine. I think the simplest, cheapest way for this country is for Minister Lalovic to get out of this place and bring some man who's too tall and smarter than he is.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21122	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose to the National Assembly to reject this amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21123	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, why the previous amendment was not adopted is simply not clear what he would fundamentally change in the law. I understand that they wanted something of our amendment to change, to suggest that it would be better regulated in a different way, but that in health care the employees were taking a test from the field of fire protection, epidemiological measures of work, in the coronary unit, in dialysis, and that they were filling the test next to the patient, next to the man in surgery, amazing. His place of business is a surgical joke, and he's not gonna fill it in. It's simply an evil will not to do what the radicals have suggested, however much it may be, logically. It would be a shame if the minister were there and the entire government, he says - why not write a form of test. How he's going to pass the test, the one who drives, that's the same profession. To sit in a car and drive and pass a test, which curve did he not pass? Nothing changes, it only adds -- in a special room, and behind it goes practical in the workplace. To make it clear to the citizens to what extent it is simply to introduce a proponent with amendments to the Serbian Radical Party, and then whenever they have a chance to come out and say -- well, radicals seem destructive, demagogue, nothing is wrong with them, no law is their will. We're just thinking that they've accepted one amendment, and for the other, it would be logical, they don't read, but they're turning over different laws, and they're trying to jump at us why we wrote the amendments as we are. We now see that in the amendment of Mr. Rankic, who has asked to define more precisely places with risk. What did the legislator do in this regard? He said -- that place with the increased risk we won't be taxing anymore, which used to be. And if it were quite clear; take any law in the former SFRY, take anywhere and ever, exactly what it is. They then partially explain that there is this in the current Labour Act, very taxing, very little and mostly related to special categories of employees, up to 18 years old, from 18 to 21 and persons with certain disabilities. A global recommendation that is, what should be a place with a special risk doesn't exist and we put it there nicely. What's the explanation? He will be in a future act that will later be passed by the minister, prescribed. What's gonna be his guideline for that? How will they know, if there is nothing in the law, what should be a place with an increased risk, a very declarative definition that is described in the law, that workplace. Why don't you say -- here I have an article 28, my risk assessment act must contain everything from Article 28, so if we see that something else can be a place for the cobajagi technologies to develop, we can't catch up with them, we'll always leave the legal clause to extend it and that the future act for the new company, the new company, the new act, not all the risk acts will be under the indigo, they'll all be different because it depends on the performance. It will always be left for the employer to walk, as he develops his firm, introducing new technology, to open up new places of risk, and that is part of the overexplained explanation you give by rejecting this amendment. It's understandable and we have nothing against that part of the explanation, but against accepting a basic tax number that will be binding when it makes a proposal for an act, someone has to make a proposal to the employee. How will Karic know, how will Bambi know, how will the flag? Someone's got to give a fly, and the man's gonna give the minister what to call on, which is a tough job. If it starts to describe evaporation, what, what they have to contain to be harmful. The perfume evaporation is usually not harmful, but the evaporation of the organic derivatives that we've counted are strong noises, vibrations, what's the criterion for strength and a lot of things. Nothing would change that, but it would kind of shape up and give the basis for creating a future sublegal act, because it could be something concrete to adopt and have a rapper. We really wanted to bring into a logical relationship something extremely vaguely defined in the position of Article 3, 28, to point out firstly what is important, which would also be led by the Minister in the adoption of a must for such an act. Those who write, every employer, every person who writes such an act must have some basis, can't just look at a unique mousse, because there will be a thousand musters for a thousand kinds of occupations, and one can appear everywhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21124	The word is by MP Nikola Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21125	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the ministry, counterpart Rankic submitted an amendment to Article 28 by adding a new stance, which his colleague commented. This proposal should be taken into account in the context of jobs with particularly difficult working conditions, i.e. where work is particularly difficult, dangerous and harmful to health and despite the application of all general and special measures of protection at work. Workplaces where professional activities are carried out are limited by completing certain years of life or because of periods and weights of physical functions fall to the point of preventing further successful performance, etc. It's about jobs and jobs where the job internship counts with increased duration. There are a large number of such jobs where, with specific and individual protection measures at work, not all the harmful facts of the technological process or of dangerous matter can be removed, and then as many as possible affect health. It's a special regulation regulated. The legislator provided for this in the transitional and final provisions, and that is what makes me happy, that such a law will not bother much if these transitional and final provisions are respected, there it is all said that until the rules laid down in Article 5(2) of this Law apply the rules in force. It's on two pages, and all the regulations that are now in force are listed, and they regulate this area. I don't know how many departments and departments will have the opportunity to complete and comply with the new regulations, bring new regulations. Applying existing rules in the work relating to particularly difficult jobs, i.e. where health impairment cannot be removed by special and general measures and procedures for determining those jobs... That's where I'd draw my special attention to the promoter. So far, the third part of the existing regulation has laid down the procedure, it is said: "The establishment of jobs under Article 1 is carried out by a job-finding committee with the employer... ". This commission is a three-member. The composition of the committee shall be: the representative of the employer, the representative of the PIO Fund and the expert organisation referred to in Article 3(4) of this Regulation. Professional organisation – thinks of protection institutes at work. The employer is obliged to initiate the procedure, to request the committee's arrival. In my practice, we had this problem: a change in the organisation of work, a change in the technological process, which requires a commitment to determine the working conditions and to call the commission. Representatives of the PIO Fund say -- we're coming, not a problem, the state pays, we've got diaries, travel expenses, but a representative of the professional organisation won't come until he's paid up front, until his accommodation is secured, until his journals are provided. Then it's impossible for that commission to start working and doing its job in accordance with regulations, based on the knowledge and technique that is known. Imagine those employers who do not care about the health of workers at work and who are not in a position to pay. Relatively, it's not a big price and it doesn't cost much, but the employer just doesn't take care of it. The largest number of cases is that the employer does not fulfil that obligation and does not require the Commission to exit, to establish those jobs which are particularly difficult and harmful to the health of workers. It's regulated by pension-involvement regulations, that rule, I'm talking about him. There is also the possibility of the PIO Fund to initiate the procedure, but imagine the companies that have just been formed, how long it takes for it to pass, how much water to flow through the Danube to determine whether these jobs are so harmful, why so great ailing is the loss of working time to that extent, and workers cannot be treated. In this part, the RES has a lot of work to do, using existing regulations, which is the obligation to comply with the new legislation, as the area is now highly neglected and all at the expense of employees.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21126	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs are proposing to the National Assembly to reject this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milet Poscurica. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs are proposing to the National Assembly to reject this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21127	Now this amendment has much greater weight. If an employer is now required to ensure that a woman who is employed during pregnancy, an employee under 18 years of life and an employee with reduced employment capacity, despite training for safe and healthy work, shall be informed in writing of the results of the risk assessment at the workplace and of the measures to be applied, etc. So it's enough for an employer to show a pregnant woman, a minor and a disabled person the risk assessment act and send him to work. What makes the worse ex-legislative solutions that say a pregnant woman can't do that and can't do that, can't do that and can't do that? Really incomprehensible. This means there's no mercy - I showed you the risk assessment act, and you go ahead and do it, so when you give birth to malformation, then you'll tell me what you read. What she could have done when she read it, went into labor medicine and said it hurt her, etc. And then lose his job? So we don't understand why this member of ours, where all three categories of persons in the Labour Act, this general law concerning this law, are listed precisely, and I've copied this Labour Act and I've seen how much the protection of youth and the protection of motherhood in Article 89 has been declared. So it's allowed in the general law to be taxed: it can't work where the radiation is, where the evaporation and the particularly heavy burden are, as if it's the 19th century now, so it's known that a pregnant woman only if she raises the burden can lose her fruit. Nonsense at this technological moment. We are offering much more harmfulness offers, which should also be included in a general act that the minister is about to pass, a risk assessment act, where it is said to be taxed: during pregnancy he must not perform fireman's tasks, at altitude, in high/low pressure conditions, and then all chemical compounds must not be in the environment or at work, and then the affairs of ionising radiation, that I do not read every detail of our amendment. The legislator should have read it, and I don't know what would have been wrong if the amendment had been adopted and where we would have had this negative assessment and what kind of convention we would have withdrawn. If you've been controlled by this law, I think those on the side are more interested in controlling the technology of selling our assets than the technology of passing these laws. You didn't even protect this vulnerabilities better than you did by almost cynical attitude 3, in which the employer has to inform: he'll be working where there's vibrations, where there's noise, where there's ionizing radiation, the measures against noise are that, against vibrations, so go ahead. I'm not saying he can't do what the Labour Act says. It is recommended that it does not work until 32 weeks, and the last two months of pregnancy women should not work only at night and overtime, as the legislator said. What if the hard working conditions are, and he's doing normal, which is overtime and night? So she can work in organic evaporation during the eighth month of pregnancy. Unbelievable. I don't know why it bothered, are those controllers that read this? Which, for them, would not be acceptable if they insisted so much on humanity and democracy, if someone was controlling you. You really ask, when you refuse all the logical amendments, that someone else is controlling you, that someone else is watching; or employers who are going to wear out even that vulnerabilitating population -- young people, pregnant women and people with certain disabilities. As we go through the discussions on amendments, you become increasingly unclear why you refused these amendments, what they could so fundamentally change in the law that someone else reads to you. You even told some of our amendments – there will be some new law that will provide for a methodology for examining process equipment, how the method of installation is examined, how the chemical waste is destroyed, everything that was regulated by law earlier. So we're anticipating the future law. That's how you've been anticipating here - only pregnant women will be passed the law, the law on the protection of pregnant women. I didn't bring that argument. Whatever it is I'm wearing, I'm reading it endlessly. A sublegal act on the introduction of measures to improve the safety and health of pregnant women and workers under the directive will be adopted. Here's the directive again. It's just gonna come in. Until it's brought, let them do as they please and as much as they can. I really don't think that any of this amendment intervention would change you in any way into the concept that you want to set up, but we would give certain security to a very vulnerabilities. It's a wonder that, apart from what you've done to them with the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, you're now giving them additional circumstances to work, because you really don't fit in with what the basic Labour Act has proposed. This law of the lower order does not conform to the basic legal act for the adoption of this. But that's your will, and we'll see if you go through with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21128	The word has Nikola Todorovic, according to the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21129	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just a few notes in favor of this debate. So, I want to say something, especially when it comes to young women, young girls. This would be true, what it says in this bill, when the state-owned company, the factories that used to do, where certain measures were made, were developed services where they cared about the protection of young people and mothers with small children. In private employers, I draw attention to the resolution ministry, especially because you do not control working on black, there is a huge abuse of youth employment, especially in women's youth on jobs for a certain period of time. Certain employers forbid young girls to get married, make them sign statements that if they get married, they won't stay in a different state. If the employer finds out that the young woman is in a different condition, he fires her and her husband, even if they work at the same factory. There's a factory in our area that's privatized. There are a lot of these small factories and employers around Belgrade where such contracts are signed for five years, and Serbia is thinking about Natalie, thinking about protecting youth. These employers need first to learn that when a woman stays in a different state, she opens up pregnancy, so maternity, that the state pays, doesn't pay the employer, so much she can stay in a working relationship, and while the mother is on sick leave, while the child is little, she can hire a worker for a certain time with the replacement of an absent worker, she doesn't lose anything. But there is a terrible discrimination and abuse of women's youth, and it would have to be resolved by the rest of the ministry by its action, control, first work on black and these private employers who require such contracts or such statements from women's youth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21130	I hope you're against abuse, regardless of age. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs are proposing to the National Assembly to reject this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs are proposing to the National Assembly to reject this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21131	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's another pearl, another moment of inspiration when writing this law by the minister, especially writing an explanation for why the amendment is being rejected. Therefore, Article 34(1) of the amendment reads: "When a direct threat to life or health threatens him, employees have the right to take appropriate measures, in accordance with their knowledge and technical means at their disposal, and to leave the workplace, the work process, or the working environment. "I asked the amendment to add the word "post", and then it would say, "When a direct threat to his life or health is threatened, employees have the right to take appropriate measures according to their knowledge and technical means at their disposal... "and so on. My amendment has been denied, and now you will hear the argument. It says – it is rejected because the proposed amendment imposes an obligation on employees to take appropriate measures in the event of a direct threat to life and health at work before leaving their post. If it wasn't sad, it'd be funny, amazing. The employee has the right, if the company fires in the hall, he has the right to take that fire extinguisher and put out the fire, but there's no obligation. The employee has a right to break a water pipe, to give these most banal examples, to shut down the valve, but it is not an obligation for him, because he can leave the workplace and then find the boss or find the owner of that company or the director of the company and tell him - that's where the water leaks. So until the one who has the obligation to close the tap, the one who has the obligation to put out the fire, leaves the factory. I remember, in the '80s, I was working on gas, when the gas charger here at Dorcolo burned down. If this law had been in force, if you had adopted it, I would have told the MPs of the ruling majority, there would have been no Dorcola today. The gas charger turned on, the employee had an obligation, he jumped, closed the valves, only burned down the place where the bottles were filled, the entire company was preserved and Dorcool was preserved. A few years ago, a similar situation occurred in the Pancheva refinery, it also happened in Petrochem. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as he is threatened by the immediate danger of any kind, the employee must also have the obligation to make those funds... Because so far, we've been talking about how he's trained to use those funds, and today it's said he's right. It also has a duty, of course, not to question your life, to preserve that property that will last and to preserve the lives of others who also have the right to live, and here they are in the immediate vicinity. The miracle that he did not write - he has no obligation to warn the rest of the workers to come out. So the manager in a mine will have the right to shut down the water, call the elevator that pulls them out of the mine, or call the elevator himself, and he has no right to warn the others of the danger. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's really high time you put this minister away, because this law is such that he doesn't protect anyone unless he's protected somewhere. This is prescribed and it's misspelled, it's mistranslated, and I think it's high time this law, no matter what we've come to an amendment, is withdrawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21132	The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, on the basis of Article 140(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have submitted an amendment to Article 35. Since the representative of the Proposer has adopted this amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Labour, the wrangling and social issues, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs proposes to the National Assembly to reject this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21133	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you will now truly see how the Government of the Republic of Serbia works when it comes to amendments to the Serbian Radical Party MPs. When we in the debates say that the government, or the government's representative, the resolution minister does not accept our amendments, then someone always finds himself who throws out that it is not true, so some minister boasts, that some amendment has been adopted. I can understand that, you know, the government has an approach, the concept of a problem completely opposite of what the concept of the Serbian Radical Party is and then it's not logical to accept an amendment that completely changes the concept of the government's proposal. What do we got here? Article 35. The bill says: "Employee is obliged to apply the prescribed measures for safe and healthy work, to use dedicated means for work and dangerous matter, to use prescribed means and equipment for personal protection at work and to handle them carefully, so as not to endanger his safety and health, as well as the safety and health of other persons. "It is obvious that this is incomplete, inaccurate and that it was necessary for the amendment to affect this member of the law. So it doesn't touch the concept of the government's idea, it simply makes sense to this standard of Article 35. Therefore, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have proposed an amendment to add, after Article 1, paragraphs 2 and 3 to this Article 35. Position 2. I would say, I would ask you to follow this, because I will now compare with what the Government has accepted: "Employee is obliged to examine his place of work before the beginning of work, including the means of work used, as well as the means and equipment for personal protection and to perform an employer or other authorised person in the event of deficiencies detected. "Station 3: "Before leaving his job, he is employed to leave his job and labour resources in a position not to endanger other employees. "So, the addition of Article 35 really defines the obligations of employees more precisely, affirms the discipline in the workplace, develops the spirit of collective responsibility. The implementation of the proposed measures can significantly reduce or eliminate many risk events leading to injury or employee disease. Therefore, nothing any of the representatives of the Government or members of the Assembly Committee could make an objection to this amendment. This amendment was submitted on 17 October at 17:00 hours, and on 20 October we received the opinion of the Government, addressed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on amendments to the draft safety and health laws at work. It says that the government is proposing to the National Assembly that, for the reasons set out in the reasons for the amendments, it accepts the amendment of the People's MP Verica Radet to Article 35. The bill, which reads, and then there's the amendment prescribed just like I did. Afterwards, a colleague who chaired this committee asked if I was ready to adapt my amendment to the government's concept of the bill. Of course I wasn't ready, because I'm absolutely convinced that the amendment that I've submitted is really such that without it, the law wouldn't make sense. Not just a member of 35th, but a whole law. It was also an undivided position and the undivided opinion of colleagues on the Committee and representatives of the Ministry. So I didn't do it, but it was simply an amendment that I filed in such a text. I didn't want to change the amendment because it's the principle of the work of our parliamentary group and we can't accept it because someone from the government is telling us - I don't like this expression, I like that one. If the government won't accept our amendment, why should we change our own amendments? So it was October 20th, and October 26th, based on article 140. The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs shall submit to the Proposal for a Law on Safety and Health at Work the following amendment to Article 35 – after Article 1 of Titles 2 and 3 which read as follows: "Employees are obliged to review their place of work, including the means of work they benefit from", those were the words of the amendment, and they say, "for their place of work, including the means of work used". Where did it get into any government idea of the government's concept? Simply, no one can convince us anymore that it is not about the government not to accept the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party, especially when it comes to an amendment like this to Article 35, which the government has obviously also realised that without that amendment, the law does not make any sense and that it will not be applicable. So, even in such a situation, the government will not accept the fact that we in the SRS parliamentary group are doing this job seriously. When we intervene amendmentally, we don't do that, how some colleagues in public like to say, to obstruct Parliament's work. On the contrary, we do it because we know that this law, however bad it may be, will be adopted and no matter how bad that law will be applied. Without these amendments and amendments to the law, we are free to say that what you call the law we do not have at all, we have no protection at all, nor anyone guarantees us any safety for health at work, etc. So, you heard from your colleague Poscurica mostly, by several amendments, really one qualified position and opinion on this law and on each amendment individually. I wanted to introduce you fellow Serbian MPs and the public and warn you of a really incorrect government attitude towards Serbian Radical Party MPs, according to our engagement and work. If the minister were here, I would insist that he tell me what is the difference between the employee being obliged to examine his place of work before he starts work, including the means of work he uses and that he is employed to examine his place of work before he starts work, including the means of work used? So if I were to ask for this amendment to be accepted, we would have the same text with one single word difference, the same text that has already become an integral part of the amendment. I know this is pointless and impossible, but I ask you to keep an eye on the future, and you fellow members of the Committee and representatives of the Government, to seriously consider the amendments you receive, not to see who signed the amendment, but what the amendments are like and not to look after "hair in the egg" so that Minister Lalovic would be smarter than Verica Radeta. It certainly isn't. No, because he didn't remember to add these two amendments to Article 35, but I remembered me and the MP group of the SRS and we opened our eyes to him because we submitted an amendment without which the law wouldn't be worth anything to him, which he himself admitted, but to accept the amendment, he couldn't bear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21134	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. I'm sorry, since it's a termology of "work means" or "work means" and since you're against it being an accident to adopt one another, do you perhaps withdraw, so as not to vote by mistake? No, we'll vote for it. Of course, but you just turned your attention, that's what I wanted to understand. The word is Ivana Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21135	I can agree in part with my colleague. So, basically, the amendment that she submitted to me personally is quite fine and everyone agreed to it. That's why I talked to her about whether she was willing to make a technical correction to make that exact amendment as originally hers. That is why we have a new business opportunity that, if this correction does not happen, the Committee can form an amendment between discussions in principle and in particular to correct certain things. Why is it important -- "working funds", "work funds", the law correctly defines and at the very beginning of the law we have a definition of basic concepts. It's clearly defined "the means to work." For example, the Croatian law uses the term "work means". But since the whole text of the law uses the term "work media", it does not essentially change, and it is generally a good idea, which is why the Committee reacted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21136	Thank you for the further clarification. In any case, it is about the work of the MPs, not the minister, the MP who has proposed and the MPs who have spoken to him to comply. It's a job for MPs to fix the laws, well done, thank you. National MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic submitted together to the 40th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs are proposing to the National Assembly to reject this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov.. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs are proposing to the National Assembly to reject this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21137	Ladies and gentlemen, MP Pai Momchilov, who wrote the amendment, is officially absent. As an authorised representative, of course I will defend the amendment that I am familiar with and I will try to assure you that we had the best intention when we intervened in such a badly defined member of the 41st point 6) where the department of medicine at work, which the employer (engages - probably concluded a contract with them, would be impossible to be in such a service relationship to be engaged, but well) commits to several important things that might explain part of the point 2), that it was given by the legislator as to why the amendment refuses, that part of these remarks or remarks by Mr. Momchil's refer to the obligation of the institution, so the health care institution, to conduct training from first aid staff. That's logical and that part is correct. But it is again in a certain way, the legislator himself has put, repeats in point 6), which means that, apart from the need to participate in training to provide first aid to the medical service of work, will be obliged to participate in organising first aid, rescue and evacuation. This should be where linguists have fun with this problem – participates in organising first aid. So, the thing happened, the car accident happened, the accident happened. Now it's a legal obligation for the service to participate. In earlier legislative solutions, there was the obligation of the legislator to report on the event various entities: firefighters, police officers, home of health, possibly medicine, etc. That makes sense. Now, quite explicitly, it is the obligation of that service to, in addition to first aid training, which we have no objections to, we have tried to amend it by saying that it would be more logical to participate in first aid training, provide advice and instructions for rescue and evacuation. So, all that does is until the thing, the haiarium, the evil doesn't happen, and then, if all the other subjects are able to come and help, no one will escape, no army, no civilians, no citizens; everyone will get involved, there's no dilemma, even though the text doesn't say that the employer needs that whole chain of people, responsible or able to help, to include. This turns out to be mandatory for all medical work. What's the practical problem on the ground now, why are we intervened? Take small places where the behind factories that do something don't even work 15, 20 or 30% employees, it's somewhere out of 1,000, it's a large number. If there is a mass accident, explosion, gas, gasification, it will turn out that the medical work is required to come, provide first aid, evacuate, care and provide the first elements of protection through hospitalisation or treatment in a remote, secondary and tertiary centre. What if it's 20, 30 or 50 kilometers away? How is this medicine trained? Any sanity, any oxygen, any stretchers, any bandage material? There's supposed to be, but related to the institution itself, according to some suggestion of medical work, the packing material, when it's a mass accident, how is it going to do that? Lawyers might be able to explain a little bit more about what a colleague wanted to say with this amendment. It is clear to me that we cannot legally place them in such an obligation to participate in all of this, in evacuation, explicitly, directly, etc. There are no others who will be complicit in this, but medicine. I don't think that's logical, it's not necessary, we don't have so many doctors specializing in this kind, or sanity, or equipment. Medical work is practically beginning to shut down, to lose importance with the shut down of businesses, with the loss of major technology centers, formerly large industrial gigans. She was very developed, even bound to the giants themselves, like what we have in the flag. Now the white bread tents, whether they survive or not, what's gonna happen to them. Now you make a commitment, and now he's the employer. We're rather surprised that in connection with the next amendment, which is mine, you didn't accept that there was a doctor of medical work - on the famous committee you suggested. So we think it would be logical to just change point 6 here and say that in all of this medicine the work is consulting, helping, explaining, directing, not having to do it itself. That's the essence of the Momchilov amendment. So, to be involved and responsible. Watch out, evacuate, provide first aid and rescue, it's a huge job in mass harbingers for one medical specialist, two nurses and a driver and one dream, or two, if there is. What are they gonna do? They've got to call others, no one's going to give up, no one's going anywhere, and you didn't see it coming, so we're contesting it. But, by the way, sometimes the boss won't even know it, he'll know the neighbors, so he'll call the police, the police will call when it happened, if God doesn't give it to the guard of the facility, etc., so you can bind the boss, because he's authorized to call whoever's supposed to help. Everyone knows they'll help. But then everyone's going to wait for the doctor to come and start, he's trained them, he knows how to do it, wait, don't let us spoil something, he's obliged, he's bound to do it. In this context, it is not bad to rephrase and dispel the potentials of legal responsibility for this important institution, which we must preserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21138	Thank you, Mr. Pocurica. The next amendment is yours, if no one else is answering for a word. He's not answering. ) The National MP Milet Poscurica submitted to Article 44 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs are proposing to the National Assembly to reject this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21139	I just touched that problem. We wanted to change the composition of the Committee by amendment, which, under the bill of law, mainly consist of representatives of those employees chosen by the employer or they chose one another as the person responsible for the subject of training and the provision of elements from protection and safety to work. So, a person who has self-employed amongst his/her/her/her/her/her/her/his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/its/his/her/his/her/her/his/her/his/her/his/her/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/her/his/his/his/his/her/his/his/his/her/her/his/her/his/his/his/his//his/// his/ his//// his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his////////////////// his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/////// his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/////////////////////////////// his/ his/ his/// his////// his/ his// his/ his//////////////////// his/////// his/ his/ his// his/ his/ his/ his/ his/////////////////// his/ his/ We wanted, or I wanted this proposal to strengthen the possibility of extremely competent and professionally performing by creating a certain parity. Well, if it's just three members, they're on the board to be a doctor of medical work, whose service is really a lot to be asked of, the employee's representative, trained for jobs related to safety and health at work, and the employer's representative. We think it's logical, contrary to the government's explanation in response to the amendment, to have an employer's representative, because he's a person of personal authority, to hear what those who are vitally interested in it can say. Surely the doctor of the medical work is interested in doing well, the employee representative is certainly interested and why the employer himself, if the small firm - up to 10, what you have in the catering etc., would not come and hear what they want. If the larger company and the larger number of employees, nothing changes to things, remains a doctor of medical work, remains one representative, and the number of those who, as you said in response to this amendment, are vitally interested would only increase and thus increase the real opportunity to act on what is interesting to them. Such legislative solutions exist in other laws. If we're already forming a single body, which should be helpful, we think we should competently create it in some reasonable composition to finally have a goal, not just a declarative one. Because, after all, the set of persons who have been authorized and who have chosen each other in some Cardelian way, self-government, appointed their own representative, will not achieve anything in particular if it is not supported by the will of the employer and, of course, justified by the facts that only a professional person, such as a doctor of medical work, can provide them with in response to their demands. All this is true: that the employer should receive them, listen to them, make a decision, but then they have the right to complain, to chase an inspection, to create dissension if they do not meet. We think that this composition of the board and the request for inspection, the inspector for emergency surveillance, would be much more thorough, more rationally written, than if only persons who are actually workers, who are doing this job, who are unable to legally formulate their request. We do not honestly believe that inspectors, as the bill says, will also deal with this educational part of the job and teach the employer how to apply the rules of the act he wrote himself. So, if the inspector came, he'd teach you how to do something, so he wouldn't punish you. I believe it a little, because the inspection mostly exists to punish, that kind of impression is public, and in all kinds of inspections, as a rule, they're leaving to find something. What kind of situation on the ground, at least as far as this segment is concerned, is always going to find something: that someone currently took off their helmet or didn't wear a glove, glasses; they'll always find something. There's no dilemma. Indeed, much will depend on the inspector's will, he won't have time for preventive or advisory work or guidance on secret issues, but, again, it would be more logical, the doctor goes, one of the employers goes, so when there's a mistake in sharing that responsibility together, rather than forming one quaste that won't affect anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21140	National MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic submitted together to the 69th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs are proposing to the National Assembly to reject this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE MARRIAGE OF THE DAY OF HAPPY ON THE TERRITORY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA (single) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs on the bill: Vjerica Radeta, Vojislav Milajić, Natasa Jovanovic, Zoran Krasić, Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerović, Nemanja Sarović and Aleksandar Lazarević. National MP Aleksandar Lazarevic, written in writing, withdrew the amendment to the introductory sentence of Article 11(1). It's a bill of law. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have eight amendments that the government's representative has accepted in the meantime, and I would like to ask the Committee to have a mandatory session before the vote, which is likely to be 14, so that these amendments are not voted on. We will certainly not discuss them, but it is necessary not to vote on them, in order that the Committee accepts them. The People's MP Aleksandar Lazarevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21141	I was just about to ask if we even had the government's opinion on these amendments, and I didn't expect the government to accept the amendment that I submitted to Article 5. Proposal for a bill to mark the day of mourning. Remember, when we discussed this law in principle, that only the head of our parliamentary group spoke; we thought there was no need to use time to talk about this law, because really this law should be passed, don't God give it to apply, or as little to apply. And then we said, and now, that there wasn't much on the head to rush this law, there's a lot of more than just a few things. You heard today, twice Mr. Vucic called on the president of the Assembly to call an emergency session to discuss Kosovo and Metohija, about the problems that are happening there, their illegal parliament today. Imagine that even the Greek parliament held an extraordinary session on the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. That only seems to be of no interest to the state authorities in the Republic of Serbia. But, well, this is on the agenda and we are talking about this today and we are talking about an amendment to Article 5. Article 5 speaks of giving the post office a minute of silence and says: "Every employer is obliged on the day of mourning to allow employees to, at the same time, at the moment of silence, pay their respects to people who were killed in an accident that made the day of mourning declared. “ Upon reading this article, it would be said that there is nothing that should possibly be changed there, but this is a purely legal amendment. When a lawyer reads this whole law, as I have read it, then it must be seen that there is a conflict between Article 2 and Article 5 of this law. In fact, Article 2 discusses the announcement of a day of mourning and says: "The day of mourning is declared after a particularly serious accident that causes people to die, wounding, severe damage to people's health, or in the event of the death of high-ranking state officials. A day of mourning can be declared in the event of the death of a person with high merit for the country, as well as some tragic event, when the Government assesses so. The decision on the declaration and duration of the day of mourning is made by the Government," etc. Why did I read these first two articles of Article 2? A bill of law? Because in these attitudes we talk about when the day of mourning is declared. Then it is perfectly logical and normal for the giving of mail by a minute of silence to make all those covered by Articles 2 to 1 and 2. It's a bill of law. That's why I suggested that in this Article 5, where it says that mail is given to people who are killed in an accident that has been declared a day of mourning, it is replaced by the words "persons or faces". So – persons or persons who can get hurt in an accident that declares the day of mourning, these are the terms used in Article 2. A little while ago, when we talked about this previous law, we had some kind of termological explanation here, and I really don't understand what the motive was for this amendment not to be accepted. Believe me, God forbid it comes to the application of this Article 5, you would see that in some cases Article 5 could not be applied, that it would not be possible to pay tribute to someone the Government has determined to declare a day of mourning for a tragedy. So, I think it's the inconclusiveness of the government's representatives, but such a minister as such and the government, like the government of such draft laws, such concerns about the state, such a order of priorities. So, representatives of the ruling coalition that you are attending today's work, if there are lawyers, and those who are not, I think I have explained enough, accept this amendment so that indeed the law and Article 5 can be applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21142	National MP Vojislav Milajic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 6 and 6. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Lazarevic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Lazarevic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Lazarevic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Lazarevic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Krasic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Lazarevic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic to article 14. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21143	The same is the reason for the amendment to Article 13 submitted by Zoran Krasic and Article 14 submitted by Nemanja Sarovic. I have reported to explain both the amendments very briefly, simply for reasons to be clear to colleagues who have not seen these amendments, and also to the public, not to write amendments for writing, but to explain what the essence is. Both amendments, both Article 13 and Article 14, relate to criminal provisions. Article 13 provides for a violation of the application of this law and it is said that a fine of between 50 and 200 thousand dinars is punishable for a violation, and then it is listed: a legal person who does not allow a minute of silence, a news and publishing organisation unless the provisions of Article 6 of the Law, institutions in the field of culture are complied with if they do not adapt their programme to a day of mourning, etc. In Article 14: "The fine between 2,000 and 10,000 dinars will punish a natural person who deliberately violates the obligation to mark the day of mourning in a public place. "Of course we think that violations should be established, of course we think that it should be punished for all this which is stated in the bill, but there is something that was not clear to us, that is why a fine of 50 to 200 000 dinars would punish a legal person who does not allow employees to pay their respects to the victims in a minute of silence or why a fine of two to 10,000 dinars would punish a person who in public place hurts the obligation to mark the day of mourning. Why in cases like this, where there shouldn't be a dilemma, we leave the possibility and who's going to say how bad someone hurt mourning day, so whether we punish him with two or ten thousand or this from 50 to 200 grand. So, we don't argue that we should be punished, we haven't entered the level of punishment, but I really ask you, when voting on these amendments, if a representative of the Government hasn't accepted, you accept. Don't get into a situation... Unfortunately, sometimes this law and these members will be applied, and then someone needs to survive, to assess whether someone broke the obligation, deliberately violated the obligation to mark the day of mourning in one way or another, and whether it would punish him with two thousand or ten thousand, whether he had previously resented it, etc. That goes for these violations, too. This is again our principled attitude, which we talk about every time it comes to punishment. We have always insisted that it be as small a range as possible, because it means narrowing down the possibility of abuse in law enforcement. In this case, we insist not on any range, but on the exact same punishment for each offender because we think that marking the day of mourning is the obligation of all, equal for each and every one has to answer, or to pay the penalty if he disobeys this law on the marking of the day of mourning.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-02-0.u21144	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meso Omerovic together submitted an amendment, with an amendment, which they suggest to add the title and new Article 15a after Article 15. The government has accepted an amendment with a correction. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We will continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours and we will discuss the agenda points in detail, and the longest until the debate is completed in detail of the eighth item of the agenda. There won't be a session on Friday. Since there has been some confusion, which has no place, the National Assembly determines politics, the government of the Republic of Serbia implements politics and responds to the National Assembly. This policy is represented by the president of the state and is responsible for the citizens. Since this assembly has established a policy, in the event that the Government wishes, when forming a negotiating team or setting up a platform, to request a decision by the Serbian Parliament and thus further strengthens and defines its negotiating position, which it will certainly do, in the event that the Government asks for it in the meantime, it is possible that some of these days will be working, because the National Assembly will certainly hold the session immediately. The National Assembly, meanwhile, does not want to lose a day of work and is urgently doing everything it can, because of what the citizens have chosen you for. If that doesn't happen, Friday will not be a session, on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has confirmed that we have more than a third of the MPs present in the hall and that we can start working day. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of MP Miloljub Albianic. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Responsibility of the Manufacturers of Things with Lack (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Zoran Krasić, Milorad Buha, Stefan Zankov, Verica Radeta, on the draft law. Natasa Jovanovic and Ljiljana Nestorović and Meko Omerovic together. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Stefan Zankov. Here you go.
