ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12337	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 113 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 90 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Meho Omerovic, Vladislav Kronic and Velimir Stanojevic. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE FAMILY LAW (resumption in principle) The word has a National MP, Miroljub Marić, and let the MP Ivan Radić be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12338	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, it is my wish, because of the efficiency of the work of the Assembly, and also because of the correctness of my colleagues from G17 plus who have applied for the discussion and who I want to leave time to say something about this law, to be as precise and shorter as possible. Family law is a modern law that regulates family relations so that the family enjoys the protection of the dignity of family life. The G17 Plus Party will support the draft of this law. An important law called the Law on Marriage and Family Relations was passed a quarter of a century ago, in fact in 1980, and it is perfectly normal to have a series of shortcomings in relation to the moment in which the modern family is present in us and in the world. Family law provides for new institutes that are suited to modern law in the world. There are a number of international conventions that have been adopted in our country in the meantime, or it is necessary that we accept them on our European path as soon as possible, which this law respects. That's why G17 plus as a pro-European orientation party will vote for this bill. Family law regulates relations in marriage, then relations between children and parents, adoption, foster care, custody, maintenance, property relations in the family, protection against domestic violence, family relations procedures, and finally a personal name. The model of the law has passed the widest expert public debate and it is guaranteed to us that all competent people from this issue are involved in drawing up the draft of this law. The law is human because it protects the rights of primarily children, then disabled and endangered family members. Special attention is paid to the child's right to provide the best possible living and health conditions for proper and complete development. Without more detailed analysis of the individual members of the law, which will be discussed in the amendment discussion, I would like to briefly refer to the new solution passed by family law in relation to the current law. Unlike the old one, the proposal for a new law gives the child first the right to an opinion in Article 65. In Article 75(2), the legislator provides for the possibility of concluding a joint parental duty agreement, even when parents do not lead a common life. It is introduced by the foster care institute, members from 110 to 123, which has not existed in the current law. In Article 188, the legislator provides for the possibility to regulate property relations between spouses by signing a marriage contract. Family law treats domestic violence and proposes protection measures. That's what members of 197 to 200 are talking about. It is interesting that the particular urgency of the proceedings in the dispute against domestic violence is also envisaged. That's what Article 285 is about. There is also a new settlement institute, as an opportunity to resolve the marital dispute in cases where the settlement failed, members from 240 to 246. The G17 Group of MPs plus will vote for family law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12339	The word has a folk MP Ivan Radic, and let the Parliament of the People be prepared, Leila Ruždic-Trifunović. National MP Ivan Radic is not present. The word has the People's Messenger Blagoja Krajinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12340	Dear colleagues, we have found that in our Serbia there is a white plague. It's become an axioma, unfortunately. The children who are born are so precious to us that it comes out in the first place of our country's survival. Children, as the greatest value of our society, are the reason for the existence and progress. Worrying about their birth, raising, and raising is our most important task. One of the key laws that should regulate and help resolve the issue is this. There's no more serious topic to talk about than this one. We really disappear slowly, in a hundred years we'll count in thousands. What happened to us dying off? We need to take rigorous measures and meet families, stimulate them to have as many children as possible. Should we free the family of taxes for everything that is related to children? Should we reward the birth of every child? Should we free the mother of work after the birth of her first child, at least two years, and pay her as if she were working, and so on for every child? These are questions, I believe, that every normal man who thinks about this problem asks himself. Strengthen the abortion issue? It's about the right to live, and there's still a lot of questions. How are you acting? Instead of making it easier for parents who want to create a family with multiple members, in every possible and impossible way you try to make life difficult for them. You're proposing a new family law. Every morning in my town, in kickinda, at 6:30 a.m., local radio station reports how many children were born in the last day. I never miss that. The report usually says one or two, and the rarest three or four. Often, no child is born. Last year, about 600 were born, and about 1,000 people left us. You can draw your own conclusions. It is proposed by this law that our children can be taken away by strangers. Another famous law, and there's no minister to tell him. Article 103 of point 1 of this proposal, we have a God who decides on it, which is the minister responsible for family protection. The decision is final, no legal remedy. Which minister is that? Since there is no Ministry of the Family, the decision is made by a resolution, which has a number of duties in addition to this area. Who knows what kind of decision can be made when working fast and superficially, and the decision, I repeat, is final. So much hatred and indifference towards their homeland, their people and our children, in this competition in subsistence among Europrofitters, i.e. For Euro-democracy, it has not been recorded in our country's history. So far, at least not legally, we have not given the children to strangers. This draft family law has written off everything that is advanced and humane in current family legislation. It's made on European paper, in the interest of some future bosses. All the experts are obviously ignored in drawing up this draft. The words of a educator, a sociologist and a public opinion, the opinion of your parents seems to be of no interest to you. The family must not be made a transition toy that is intended for party power struggle. It should give the possibility that children can be adopted even easier. We are for that, within our country, not to open our children's export season. The new bill guarantees that a child cannot be adopted in any way before he is three months old. This is Article 90(2) of the new proposal. In my opinion, that's fine. I want to know what's going on the first hour and the first day of the baby's birth. This family law says the mother of a child is the woman who gave birth to him. This is Article 42. There are still a number of members who point out how mother proves motherhood. There's one member who says, "I'm not allowed to challenge motherhood after the adoption of the child." This is Article 44(4). What does this mean? A child gets a new mother? Is that possible? One is a mother, whatever she is. In extreme cases, I can still understand, and what if the higher power left the child alone? The adoptors can be new parents, that's quite all right, but the birth mother can only be one. It's her right and no one can take it away from her. The new child can love them, can call them Mom and Dad, but I repeat, the mother is only one and never take it away from her. Now I'm going back to the baby's birth moment. The moment of birth is the highest act of life, the unfathomable happiness of anyone who has that honor and happiness to experience it. Such a strong feeling can only cause the death or disappearance of a child. Is it true that the law guarantees security? I insist on the moment of birth and on the first day of the child's life, precisely because of this: until the child enters the hospital books or the birth book, it's nothing, it doesn't exist. It's for nothing. It's for nothing. It's for nothing. It's for nine months of waiting. There can be manipulations in that period. Over 300 families reported their children missing, missing in those exact moments. Our legislation in its laws knows the act of kidnapping. To prevent it, the only thing that needs to be done is for the system institutions to do their job. In cases of theft or abduction of newborns, this should be done by the departments of health, police, justice and, God, is the Ministry of the Family. You formed dozens of agencies, you hired hundreds of new people, all unnecessary, you doubled the administration, and you didn't think to make such an important ministry. It's free of all laws if there's no one to apply them. There has been an affair of missing babies going through Serbia for several years. I assume you've all heard of her. The SRS and I, its representative from Kickinda, about this whole horrible and most difficult case, were getting information, usually a bug and a surface, through the media, and very rarely and in great time spaces. This crime, if there is, must be examined in detail within as short a time as possible, not to be weighed, in every case, especially since children are not a mere letter on paper, and to expose publicly what knowledge has been made. And we MPs, and you, the government, owe it to children and parents to whom children were taken away in this terrible way. The state must react, catch criminals, if there are, whoever they are, punish them rigorously and thus show their size and honor and defend their interests. This family law does not treat in its provisions the question of children who have lost parenting in this way. Who's taking care of those kids and those parents? Drafts and proposals of the laws on work, family, sport, higher education are complete self-awareness and the only remaining pillars of our society, systems in which children and families and schools are in. That's all we have left. If we lose that too, what happens to us? Here's how we take care of these parents and children. The MUP and police have found that from 2002 to 2004, there were 223 reports of the disappearance of babies, 198 of which were delivered to the municipal public prosecutor's office. The Department of Justice is unable to give information within 7 days if any criminal proceedings are under way. The D.A. finds that he's afraid there's a possibility of antiquity in cases of this kind. Here's the end. It's a finding. My point is: until the protection of children against such misdemeanors is included in this law, with the most rigorous punishments, I refuse to vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12341	The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12342	I had to thank the vice president specifically, you know why. Dear colleagues and colleagues, several speakers have already taken my first sentence from my mouth, but I can't help but repeat it, that it's been a quarter of a century, that we've waited and finally welcomed this and not to express my special pleasure for it. We heard Mr. Minister show us an analysis of which the institute consists of law, from institutes that are new and which are so far but which are arranged in a better way. That's why I wouldn't say anything about it. The Democratic Party believes the proposed law is an effort to move forward in regulating the matter of family relations in our country. In this sense, it underlines, singles out, commends the newspapers that have taken place, especially in that part of protection against domestic violence that represents a step forward in regulating family relations. The new Institute of Protection against Family Violence should contribute to the subsequent protection of victims of violence and complete the existing concept of criminal protection. The Democratic Party also believes that the new legal institutes found in the Bill's proposal, as well as those that have been amended, and so far exist in the law, are a improvement for our legal system. This view of the DS is perfectly normal when it is known that the proposal has been written by the past government, the ministry of Ms Matkovic, that the proposal has been in public debate for over a year, that it has been attended by many organisations, experts and experts, that many opinions have been respected. I have to remind you that there was a deal that he was still working on, which wasn't done. The proposal was made in the same form as in the last government. That's why DS has some objections to the law, which, after all these commendations today, I would like to say something. I would like to say in advance that DS will vote in favour of this proposal in advance, but the objections remain and I hope that in some subsequent changes they will be respected. The first remark I would point out refers to the name of the law. The law is called family law. I think it is completely inappropriate, i.e. it is a more appropriate term – the law on family, because of the Semantic Distance, because there is a big difference between "family" and "family". I've been given some interpretations as to why it's better to be "family," as regards family relations and rights, but since it's also an amendment that we've tabled, I'm going to discuss this about the amendment, of course we disagreed with those explanations. Although I have singled out the ninth part of the bill that bears the name - Protection against domestic violence, I and that part have objections that, if adopted, would significantly improve the law. The proposal states that "the violence in the family is particularly considered", so these types of violence are listed. I think that by listing some forms of domestic violence, it only limits the possibility of full protection, because practice shows that domestic violence has countless different forms. So I think it was much more appropriate and better given some general formulation of different behaviors that can represent violence. If, however, there are forms of violence, I do not think it could have been left out of the anti-law behaviour of the bully who would have been mirrored in the formulation – other forms of physical, psychological, sexual and economic oppression and harassment. I believe this solution would remove restrictions on the full protection of the victim from the bully. I also have an objection when it comes to protection measures, but again, I want to underline that these are two parts of the law that I particularly stand out as good. Now I'm just making those remarks that I think they're standing for and that they should be introduced into some subsequent law-fixing. It is unacceptable to abandon mandatory treatment of alcoholism and other addiction diseases, as well as mandatory psychological counselling or treatment. In practice, it is a common case that an alcoholic, when sobered, regrets the violence committed, swears that it will never happen again, that he will never drink again, try not to drink, perhaps repent. In such a situation, the measure of protection of compulsory treatment would have a real effect, because we must not forget that even for society it would be much better to cure it than to let it continue to fight with the non-humans who feed it. Also, I can't help but comment on the process of protecting against domestic violence, as a special litigation procedure, and not out-of-parnique, not engaging in a more detailed evaluation of the characteristics of litigation and out-of-pard proceedings, as a method of providing legal protection in civil matters. The DS points out that a lawsuit is not an adequate method of legal action to protect against domestic violence because it does not correspond to the nature of this legal matter. We believe that, given the nature and objective achieved by expressing the protection measures in the family, it is the most appropriate out-of-party procedure; it is more elastic, more simple than the litigious, rigid procedural rules, it would allow for rapid and effective legal protection to be provided and to prevent violence. We also believe that the definition of out-of-party proceedings is justified by the fact that the expression of the measure of protection against domestic violence protects not only private interests but also public interests, which is precisely the out-of-pared procedure. I must also refer to several members of the law, which are Articles 226 paragraph 3, 260 paragraphs 3 and 273. A proposal in which it is said - the court may determine one or more measures to protect the rights of the child, as well as in a case for the exercise and deprivement of parental rights, one or more measures to protect against domestic violence. This formulated provision is not clear enough and can be interpreted differently. In fact, it is unclear whether the measure of protection against domestic violence can be given under official duty, which I think should be, since it is said, a court may, or at the request of an authorised entity. Also, the verdict determining the measure of protection against domestic violence is an independent decision, so it cannot be an integral part of any other verdict. If the position expressed in the proposal would be accepted, a legal remedy could happen to prevent the entry into force of another decision against one decision. I'd still be in court proceedings to talk about the institute of rest. You've seen in the amendments that I suggested erasing that institute. In practice, often calming is shown to be counterproductive, especially because I think it further slows down the procedure, and parties in proceedings that could not agree on a divorce, since there is an agreement between the institutions, puts them in the role of completely unable to decide. The bill states that the purpose of the settlement is to resolve the disturbed relationship of the spouse without conflict and without divorce. Since the settlement is foreseen in situations where the case has already been brought up by a lawsuit, it already points to the existence of a conflict or the inability to agree on relevant facts for divorce. If that were not the case, the procedure would have been initiated by a proposal for a mutual divorce. It would be enough to reduce the mediation process to an attempt to end the dispute in agreement, i.e. by settlement, which is the new institute and I welcome it. Given the work of our courts, their ineffectiveness, especially when it comes to divorce lawsuits, and I know there are a lot of lawyers here who know what I'm talking about, calming means needless delay. I can't help but feel that it's a traditional concept and a greater desire to preserve a marriage, but to respect the will and right of an individual. It seems to me that the provisions of the proposed proposal on the marriage contract are also not sufficient and complete, and that they needed to be regulated in more detail by some future law, i.e. to regulate the contractual matrimonial property regime. But by asking some future regulation law, it's clear that I didn't intervene with the amendment, because I concluded that I would change the concept and that I couldn't exactly write a new section. First, it is necessary by law to define the content, i.e. the elements of the marriage contract, which has not been done, in order to clearly see what its subject may be. It is also necessary to provide for conditions and ways to conclude a marriage contract, as well as conditions and ways to end it. No doubt a marriage contract may be the subject of various abuses. This danger is particularly expressed in the patriarchal environments, such as ours, and for it is brought, in which it is deeply rooted and is still silently approved of the discrimination of women, known to us all, in the domain of family and property relations. Many of us can imagine the situation of an unmarried pregnant woman, who, because of the pressure of her family and the environment, agrees with her an extremely unfavourable marriage contract, whose conclusion is blackmailed by a future spouse. In such and similar situations, the general limit of freedom of contract under the rules of the bond law is not sufficient to provide adequate protection, which was the intensity of the contract. Since the marriage contract is no ordinary civil-legal contract, and given the situation with us, it will be necessary to install a number of safeguard provisions in future family law that would clearly determine the limits of the contracts. I want to underline that the parallel right is abundant in various types of and practice-verified solutions that can serve us as a good example. Because of all the things I said, I think it's necessary to regulate some future law, with the fact that I want to point out that we had this arrangement, but the government stopped working and we didn't do it. The law explicitly provides for a time when a marriage contract produces a fact, since otherwise we may have various disputes about the rights of a spouse, or persons who have given up on marriage, despite the fact that they have already concluded this offered contract that has become important. Now I would stop making objections to solutions in individual institutes. I deliberately did not mention the nonsensus of Article 5 that everyone has the right to freely decide on birth, which the MPs of the Democratic Party will speak extensively, in order to eventually return to proceedings and say that the Democratic Party considers the need for the law to foresee the possibility of joining proceedings. We believe that the possibility of bringing procedures together to protect against domestic violence with other proceedings in marriages and litigation from parental - child relations should be envisaged. The possibility that the procedure for adopting a measure of protection against domestic violence is being conducted as an associated procedure, as the solution offered in our amendments is, above all, justified by reasons of celery, economics, process speeds and all that is necessary for this case to take place more easily, more effectively and faster. In addition, experience tells us that violence is more pronounced after the initiation of a court procedure in which the victim seeks to exercise some of his rights towards the bully, such as the right to divorce, or when the child’s legal representative initiated some of the procedures to exercise the rights of that child. I believe that the law should explicitly provide that it is a matter of merger of proceedings, in order to allow a request for protection against domestic violence to be decided by the same rules, regardless of whether the procedure has the character of the basic or associated procedure, or whether or not the procedure is joined. I end my exposure with an emphasis on protecting against domestic violence, in the hope that I have gained new supporters for my views today. The Democratic Party has proposed amendments whose adoption would improve the bill, and frankly, dear colleagues and colleagues, I expect support from MPs and MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12343	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Milivoja Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12344	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this proposal of family law has certain shortcomings. The other day, speaking of the draft labour law, I mentioned the white plague and said that we must take care of important laws that will affect the birth rate, so that in 50 to 100 years we will not be just a Serb enclave in the Balkans. It's just one of those laws that this family law is. If such a law is passed, it will bring us an unprecedented white plague, because this bill allows mothers to simply drive their husband out of his own apartment, if they have a child with him. Of course, spouses are equal, but the apartment belongs to the one who has a child, and that's in the vast majority of cases the mother. She gets the right to use the apartment until the child turns 18, and the father would be homeless for that time. For these reasons, a lot of guys are gonna think a lot and make it hard for them to get married. Only if the future wife is well placed, i.e. If he has a good dowry, he'll be able to make up his mind at the wedding. That's what we should think about. In the part of the draft law on the contractual divorce of Article 40(2), it reads: "The divorce agreement must also contain a written agreement on the exercise of parental law and a written agreement on the decoupling of the common property". I think this part of the "o delobi of common property" can further cause problems over the contractual divorce, because we are such a people, property is property, and instead of calming down the fallen relationships with these we can further complicate them. The spouses, if they have already entered into conflict and are before divorce, can hardly agree on the exercise of parental rights, and if we give them a written agreement on the decoupling of the common property, it would further lead to dissension and separation. That's why I think the agreement on parental rights, if it's achieved, can come into an awkward position, i.e. spouses can re-exploit war axes, and the fact that they have reached arrangements can fall into the water and make relations more complicated, and in that case children suffer. I'd like to say something about adopting a child. In fact, a member of 103 predicts that a child can also be adopted by a foreign citizen under certain conditions. In my opinion, there are possible great manipulations with children. I'm asking Mr. Minister if we will willingly give up our children and give them to strangers. Roughly speaking, we're going to be the children's factory. So, what are our legal options to track down what's going on with that kid that was adopted abroad? Is that what we voluntarily give up our citizens, because in a foreign country, that child will speak a foreign language and be raised and raised? I wonder again what happened to the white plague. Yes, the Law provides that a stranger will be able to adopt a child if more than a year has passed since the date of the entry of data on a future adoptor into a unique personal adoption register. Do you see in this, or do you not want to see, what are the possibilities of manipulation? Here's an example: if a millionaire from the west reports to a competent person to provide him with a child, he can skillfully save a particular child for him, and even build a whole chain of smuggling and child trafficking, but this time everything under the auspices of the law. To say further, there are great possibilities for child abuse. What if the child is disabled and adopted by a stranger? Yeah, you'll say, that's humane of him. Yeah, that's right, but what if there's a child abuse or, God forbid, an even worse example, to use a child for sexual abuse, whether it's a male or a female? I listed only some failures in the bill, and when there is a debate on details, then we from the Serbian Radical Party will look more closely at individual members. In the end, I would ask Mr. Minister to go out for a pay phone and explain to me, and to other MPs in the Assembly what the words "bitanga", "hohstappler" and "violents" mean, that I don't count anymore, because I didn't find it in the law, even though I read it with care several times. I realized that this refers to someone who has an apartment and is harassing another spouse; well, according to the minister's findings, I apologize to the more beautiful part of parliament, and this applies to women who own their own apartment and live in it with their spouse.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12345	The People's MP Predrag Mijailovic has the word, and let the MP Ivan Radic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12346	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, we have before us a bill on family. The DSS will vote in favour of this law and will support it both in the discussion and in the end, during the vote. Family law is the fundamental law of every society and state. That's very easy to say, but it should be documented. We have to say, and we need to know that without an orderly family, there is neither organized nor healthy society nor state. What kind of personality will be formed depends primarily on genetic properties, but not only on genetic properties, but also on family education and the environment. Thus, from a healthy family, we will always have both a physical and a spiritually healthy person. This is best seen and explained through our people's saying, "There is always a hawk coming out of the hawk's nest, and out of a healthy family there is always an honest and upright man." Since they say it's not like that, I'm asking you, what kind of family does Nikola Tesla come out of? From a real Serbian family. What kind of family does Pupin come out of? From a healthy and nice family. What kind of family did Serbian Duke Misic, Putnik, Bojovic come out of? Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you, what kind of family our current General Lazarevic came out of, who put himself ahead, or protected Serbian national interests, although he did not go to The Hague to defend Serbia and the Serb people. Only in a good, patriarchal, honest and honest Serbian family can we get a healthy, smart and honest person. For the Serbian patriarchal family, this law was not necessary, but it is necessary because the communist party broke the Serbian family and therefore we must make this law to establish order. When a host in Serbia beat his wife or children -- he loved them, raised them. Do we have folk songs when Grandpa keeps his grandson on his lap? Gentlemen, the West didn't come here, or the West should come here. We have to go west because for 50 years, we've been retaliated; who -- communists. That is why we will restore our Serbian family's pride and honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we know that this law has not been amended for 25 years; normally, many agreements and conventions have been ratified, so this should have been done before, because Serbia wants to go forward, but it couldn't have been done these years. I have to say, the previous authorities had time to do this. They didn't work, and now the DSS government and its coalition partners are doing it immediately as soon as the first conditions have been made. We must, ladies and gentlemen, say that Serbia has always taken steps with Europe. We stopped for a while, but we'll get there. In this family law, we have a special chapter, where new approaches that must be adopted, normally because we have ratified many legal agreements and international conventions, primarily the child convention, where a child is put first, because it is necessary to stress that it is necessary to provide the child with the best conditions for development. Articles 62 and 60 define that the child has the right to provide the best possible living and health conditions for its proper and normal development. I'll give you an example: someone genetically can be predisposed in a positive sense, and whether these genetic traits will develop or not depends on family education and environment. On the contrary, we all need to know that we have genetic properties and negative traits, and whether these negative traits will develop depends on what kind of family we grow in, develop, and that we are in a family where there are alcoholics, where there is a bully. In such a family, children become more violent and alcoholics. We need to know one more thing, what kind of environment a child is growing up in, whether it grows in an environment where both parents smoke, or a mother, and it's certainly proven that these children are more often suffering from bronchial asthma and other immune diseases. Therefore, the parents ’ relationship with their children and children toward their parents is precise in Articles 67 to 72. In Article 82, a partial lack of parental right is specified in case it is necessary for the normal development of a child. All of this has been respected before in Serbian patriarchal conditions. It's supposed to be in the law now. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have come to what we all agree on here -- the white plague is in Serbia. Gentlemen, to Užica and the surrounding area... It's easy to say – the white plague of the government, and here we hit each other in the chest – what we're going to do, we're going to disappear. We have to do something here. The state and the government have to do something. That is why the DSS government and its coalition partners have proposed a new law on financial support for families and children, where for the first time a fund is envisioned to encourage birth. I'll see you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what will you say then, and normally, the money has to go out of the budget, the tax has to increase. So we all have to do it together and we have to do it as soon as possible to rejuvenate Serbia. It's not just enough money, it's necessary, gentlemen, to amend the Disability and Pension Insurance Act so that women who have three and four children have these privileges, because the mother should be with the child. With the family law and the two laws I have mentioned, Serbia will be able to move in terms of a positive birthright. The opposite, brothers and sisters, is pure demagogy. For the first time in our legislation, a chapter on protection against domestic violence is being introduced. It is a newspaper that protects the family from violent behavior by providing sanctions for a bully, such as issuing an eviction order or moving into a family apartment or house or other measures that can prevent a bully from repeating violent behavior. There are chapters in the Family Law that have undergone significant changes, especially in the adoption chapter, where it can be faster, easier and more effective to adopt a child, if all legal standards are right. In particular, it should be noted that the family law left a chapter that did not change in relation to the earlier Law on Marriage and Family Relations, which was adopted only in 1980. With this attitude, the Republic Government has proved that it adheres to its principle that nothing that has been good in previous laws will change and that it will only be added to the draft laws and amendments to the laws that our country introduces to the rule of law and bring it closer to the European Union. That's not just the case with this law, that's the case with all the laws that have been passed so far. With this, the DSS government has shown and proved state-of-the-art with coalition partners. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I've been here in parliament since the start of the multi-party parliament, I know that all the governments so far have said that democracy begins with them and will end with them. The DSS doesn't think so, nor does this government. By contrast, the government of the Republic of Serbia, with its President Vojislav Kostunica, has taken a firm stand to keep pre-election promises and that a rule of law must be made and we stick to that pre-election -- is the word. It's only in the DSS, and if it's in the rest, I'll be glad. In the end, I want to say that the DSS position is that governments are transient, and the laws must be permanent and should only be changed when it is in the interests of the people and the state. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will neither beg nor recommend you, you know that you should vote for this law. Otherwise, if you don't vote for this law and these two laws that I have mentioned, we won't be able to give Serbia a normal path to Europe, and at the same time raise Natalie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12347	The People's Messenger Ivan Radic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Rajko Baralić be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12348	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what to say after the Lunet. So, no matter... (President: Please allow Mr. Radic to speak. [[Sagar.]] Here you go. ) Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, as I said, regardless of the minister's initial statement resisted to prove that this bill is a alignment with the ratified international agreements, it is my opinion that this bill is a classic example of a copying school and a poor translation that is already becoming a practice of the new, or this republican government. Although some laws in the area of finance, businesses, and perhaps even the judiciary can tolerate it, in a law such as this bill, concerning every citizen of this country, family as a basic cell of society, this cannot be the case, because in this law must be built into tradition, and our customs and mentality of this people. All of this must be adjusted in order for this law to really be the law of all citizens and of every family in this country. As far as the law's name is concerned, I think the Proposer made one big mistake. The term "family law" means nothing in itself; I think this is about the elementary ignorance of Serbian language and that we should take care of our own language and keep our own language. Family can be a house, family can be a car, family can be a dog, but one law can't be a family. The law must be called a family law or, better yet, marriage and family law. I would say that at the beginning here, women and frogs are being chased, and I get the impression that there are two completely different institutions here: marriage and family. Marriage itself cannot be a family, for marriage represents a legal bond between a man and a woman. Those families become when they get the birth, and so is the root of the family's words, except in some exceptional cases. I think the proposer at the very beginning of the law had to make that clear. It is simply amazing that the bill called the family law in Article 1 says – this law regulates: marriage and relations in marriage, the extramarital community, etc. There's no mention of the word "family." Also, Article 2 concerning a particular family is said to enjoy special protection of the state, etc. There's no definition of family, what family. It is a community of the lives of parents, children and other relatives who have mutual rights, obligations, etc. What I would like to emphasise, and I will only attach myself to one very sensitive part of this bill, because of the time available to the SRS parliamentary group, concerns the adoption work. I think it's a very important part of this law, but I get the impression that in these few members who process this topic, there is a suitable ground for possible corruption, for possible abuse of position. I'm not saying it will be, but there are conditions for something like this to happen. What's this about? It is the fact that the competent minister, or resolute minister, is given really too much authority in terms of adoption, a very complex, very sensitive issue, which depends on the future of a young life. So we have in Article 99 that the age difference between adoptors and adoptors cannot be less than 18, or more than 45, which is correct and there are no objections, but it is said that "extremely, the minister responsible for family protection can allow the adoption of a person who is older than the adoptors less than 18 years old or a person who is older than the adoptors for more than 45 years if there are particularly justified reasons". This part of the sentence appears in almost all adoption members - if there are particularly valid reasons for this. What are the particular reasons why the minister decides? Is that the thickness of the envelope or is that the color of the bills the minister can get? I think it's extremely inaccurate and extremely vague here. It doesn't have to happen, but conditions are being created so that it can be one of the "particularly justified reasons" as far as the minister is concerned. It is also said in Article 101 that they can adopt spouses or out-of-marriage partners together, but that if there are particularly justified reasons for this, the minister can allow adoption and the person who lives alone. We think this problem should have been further defined and more precisely in order to avoid possible abuses. Then comes that truly scandalous member of 103 who allows the adoption of foreign citizens. It is once again said that the minister responsible for family protection agrees with this adoption, and point 3 says that an exceptional minister in charge of family protection can allow the adoption of a foreign citizen before the deadline laid down in Article 2. (it is a deadline for which no adopter can be found amongst domestic citizens) if there are particularly justified reasons for this. That part of the sentence again. The question arises whether the minister, or whether our state can control the fate of a child who goes beyond the border and who becomes the adoptor of a foreign family. Can the Minister and the State check where that child is, what his life is, what kind of family he lives in, and if he's developing normally? I'm afraid our country is in no condition to do so, I'm afraid that these children will become the subject of a truly large and well-organized world mafia dealing with the trafficking of children, engaged in the trafficking of human organs. I'm afraid that child can end up with his arm out on one of the markets of European metropolis, begging. I'm afraid that child can end up as part of a pornographic industry that's semi-legalized in the west. I don't think our country has any mechanisms or methods to verify the fate of that child and therefore I urge you to delete this member of the law. In the end, if it weren't for me to just criticize, the fact is that our country needs one of these laws. It is good that the government is trying to bring into this area some modern liquids of European countries. Fortunately, the minister and the ministry have not been so bold to bring in everything, and even those unnatural modern liquids of developed European countries, as spoke by the authorised representative of the SRS, Dr Miroslav Nedeljkovic. On the other hand, the law in a lot of its members is inconclusive, vague, imprecise, giving too much authority to the minister and, I forgot to say, destroying the institution of marriage and favouring the extramarital community.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12349	The People's Messenger Rajko Baralić has the word, and let the People's Messenger Bora Kutic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12350	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Lakicevic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the authorised representative of the SPS for this law, Mr. Zivodarka Dacin, during her address, said the SPS MPs would vote for this law. We have submitted several amendments, and we do not condition that these amendments be accepted to support the law. Let me say a few sentences. There were difficult qualifications at the expense of one time that made it possible for those qualified amongst other things to get a normal and free school, to get an apartment, to buy it out and train their children, to build significant institutions of child and social protection, education, etc. Did that system destroy the family? No less than the globalistic understanding of family and society. So, let's not compromise, there were qualifications I just couldn't accept. It would be normal for me for this law to bear a different title, to be a law on family. It's the very essence of my objection, but it's not formal. If this were a family law, then he'd have to define family and a lot of what comes out of that definition. This is the family law, which in a different way treats various issues, not as much as I want to and as I would like to support, but since I am not a minister, I am an MP, the minister has his arguments, and I have my arguments. In preparation for this law, except for the literature I had, I obtained another one: "A Children's Rights Album", issued by UNICEF, "The Document of the Rights of the Child and the Convention on the Rights of the Child", "The Rights of the Child in Serbia", "The Rights of the Child and International Rights". Most of these documents, with exceptions, carry out a feminist approach to this issue and somewhat a globalist approach. It is my right to see it and to oppose it, to the extent that it is my strength and as far as my reach and reach of the SPS parliamentary group are concerned. We understand that, but do not slow down anyone's right to have such a relationship with these issues, yet I want to say that a feminist approach (I have spoken here many times, and I will say today, because it is an important law), among other things, it advocates and struggles for the birth of children without a known father. It's unacceptable for us. For me who grew up without a biological father, it's unacceptable. The impact of various lobbies, in various laws, I talk about it every time, is indicative of me. I just want to say that I notice it, that I'm fighting it as much as I can and as much as I can, but obviously I can't do it enough, I can't do it as much as I want. As far as the situation in the family itself is concerned today in Serbia, what its problems are, nationalities, although it is said here that this is not a law dealing with this problem, as anywhere in the developed world, economic emancipation and emancipation of women, above all, is objectively lowers natality. We can talk about it one way or another. Are we happy to stand up and, hopefully, contribute together to the economic emancipation and emancipation of women? Yeah. Are we happy that Natalie's going down? No, I don't. But these are questions that also don't treat this law to the extent that I think it should. There are a lot of members in the law who are too narrative, are not explicit, have no clear norm, or have clear sanctions what if something that is prescribed by that member is not realized. So I think the time that comes will have to answer those questions. I'd especially like to refer to a few members. Article 19 defines blood relatedness. It says here who can't make a marriage. Let me read: "Marriage cannot be made by blood relatives in the right line, and from relatives in the sideline marriage cannot be made: a brother and sister, brother and sister per father or mother, uncle and nephew, uncle and niece, aunt and nephew, aunt and nephew, children of born brothers and sisters, children of brothers and sisters per father or mother." Quite precise, but for my understanding not enough. On the basis of article 19, it is possible for them to make a marriage without any legal interference, a brother from uncles and sisters from uncles, a brother from aunts and sisters from uncles, etc., not to mention. It conflicts with elementary morality, with the moral concept of various religious communities, regardless of whether they are traditional or others. I believe that, although this article is not the case in Serbia, I must say, with little exceptions, it gives formal right to marry in one environment, which can be met by a defamation of the environment, a condemnation of a wider family, a wider public. Then we have a dilemma about whether it's something legally immoral. So that dilemma shouldn't exist. I'd like an explanation with this about this, because I don't think that's an unimportant question. I'd also draw attention to attitude 101. - the marital status of the adoptor. I understand the tendency of a legislator. He wants to help the children to be able to adopt out - of - wedlock spouses, etc. Still, let me say a few things about this. As an exception, I can accept and risk you declaring me conservative, but as a rule difficult, because children have, above all, the need and children no one gives rights, children should be entitled to birth, and based on those rights they should exercise all their other rights. Kids, as a rule, should have a normal environment. However new understandings of this whole problem define this thing, I mean, it's in nature at least, that the most normal environment for normal development and the development of a child's family. I agree that family can be extramarital, but there are some problems that can't be solved when that family, that community, is falling apart, and I know that there are terrible problems in formal families, but I couldn't say this. As for this, Mr. Minister, you were talking about a member who defines the relationship of society to a bully in the family, who, under this law, can be kicked out of an apartment that can be acquired before marriage. I'll say right away, all the arguments you've made I accept. Against every bully, as far as I'm concerned, should be applied to the strictest possible spirit of any law. But, please, President of the Legislative Committee, if he is here, is this member contrary to the provisions of the Constitution, Article 194? Could someone’s property, acquired before entering the marriage community, be questioned whether it burned down the forest, the mountain, or killed someone or not? It's important that I get an answer to this question. Let me say a few more things that matter. I try to make every session of the committee that treats any problem of the child, and it is three committees – the Committee on Health, the Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, I delegate various problems when it comes to children. Please colleagues, when we delegate these problems, to respond positively, to the extent that I can, to such questions. I again highlight the two initiatives that I had in the proposal to amend and supplement the Social Ageing Act, which should have defined that children of peasants whose parents died provided a range for regular schooling while regular students or students. I'll do it one more time and I'll never do it again. So I'm asking you to accept that, because it's not settled in any other law, and from the assets they have they can't live. I'm going to make a motion to amend and supplement the law, and I'm going to take it as far as possible, and I'm going to ask you to back it up, because I think it's important. In the end, I especially ask those who oversee the adoption process and other issues about it, it is good that the child cannot be adopted for up to three months of life, because it removes some of these dilemmas we have; it is said by counterpart Radic. It's about this illegal and dishonest business, if it really exists, and that's child trafficking. Please, there is a phenomenon in Serbia that some celebrities, very rich, who are our citizens, are often on television, adopt children in Serbia and thus significantly lower the tax base in overseas countries. I can't speak their names, but they're familiar. It's hypocritical and dishonest. I'm asking everyone who can help social work centers do everything they can to make sure it doesn't happen. They talk about it on TV how big they are, how benefactors, etc. One adoption in the United States lowers the tax base in one year by almost a million dollars if you have seven, eight million dollars in annual income. It is important that children are not objects of this wicked work and it is important that the state authorities recognize it and know what this is about, that they do not allow people to adopt for reasons that are not human; it is about people who have their children and adopt another, and it is not prohibited, except in these cases when the reasons for adoption are not honorable. We'll vote for the law. I appreciate the opportunity to say this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12351	I thank you, Mr. Baralic. The People's Messenger Bora Kutić has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Vesna Lalić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12352	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a family law that surely takes a significant place in the legal system of a state. I think the promoter missed an opportunity to offer a better bill. He missed the opportunity to correct the proposed text of this law by adopting amendments to the MPs, and in particular amendments to the SRS. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm an expert criminal lawyer and this matter, when it comes to protecting against domestic violence, it's been my job and I can say some things on that subject. To talk about protecting against domestic violence, not to call on a branch of criminology called victim study, when the victim himself participates in some forbidden shop... Victimology has divided these victims into innocent victims, a victim less guilty in some forbidden shop, a victim as guilty as the attacker, but we have a victim who is solely guilty, or treated as an attacker. What will be done if Article 198 applies. The bill, if the victim is an attacker, if one of the spouses acts like an attacker? How, then, can you bring a measure of distance from one of your spouses’ apartments? There's only talk here in men's work, but in my practice, I've had the chance to make the victim in the family a man, and believe me, there's going to be more of that in the future. I think so far experience in adopting European principles and laws has shown that those in our space, in the mentality of our citizens, have not shown themselves best. That is such evidence is a drug addict, who has prevailed in all areas of our social life. That drug addict ruined our youth, ruined this country's future. I'm afraid it's quite similar to this law, or the bill of family law. I am afraid that in one magical way, the tradition of the Serbian family will be destroyed. The Serbian family, according to a DSS colleague, is a significant family, i.e. a patriarchal family, which has its own value and has its own price, and we have to appreciate and respect it. I believe that the citizens of Europe, I've communicated a lot with them, appreciates what's good with us, but we must present them in an adequate way, as originally, as it suits the Serbian people. The question arises, when it comes to domestic violence, what will happen if these provisions of Articles 197 and 198 of the proposed law serve as an incentive for someone to commit some kind of crime. Look what's going on. I'll give you an example from practice. One of the spouses tipped off the militia station that he was harassed, harassed, etc. This is repeated on several occasions, a discussion is scheduled under a shortened procedure, it is 15 days, not sufficiently legal and relevant facts are determined, but a verdict is made as is made and one of the spouses is expelled to the street. Another spouse, who stays in the house, in his apartment along with the child, abused this member with various manipulations and brought his mistress or lover to bed, brought him to his apartment, so he abused this member himself. How's another spouse going to feel being thrown out into the street? These provisions of the law must be applied in practice, because that is what practice says. All of this is from a practical angle. The law, by my estimate, is pretty good, but it's been let down to define what a family is, what a marriage is. When it comes to the adoption of a child by a foreign citizen, I don't think that's done enough. I will quote Article 100 to see what is wrong with the adoption of a child by a stranger: "Only a person who has been found to have personal qualities can be found to conclude that parental rights will be exercised in the best interests of the child. "The question arises as to how we will determine the status of a foreigner who adopts a child, because he has certain arguments that can adopt a child can be obtained in a special way. I also think that the provisions of Articles 197 and 198 that regulate the matter of domestic violence are not in line with the Constitution, because this is about private property. Private property is a constitutional category and it is invulnerable; private property is an apartment, so I'm going to quote Article 21: "The apartment is invulnerable". If he's invulnerable, how are we going to do with article 198 that says someone's moving out of their own apartment? There are also conditions where the apartment can be injured – in cases where the perpetrator is sought, so the apartment is searched, etc., but the Constitution did not provide for a condition for someone to move out of the apartment. When it comes to freedom of movement, Article 17. The constitution says: "Citizens are guaranteed freedom of movement and housing and the right to leave the Republic of Serbia and return to it. “ When looking at Article 198 of the proposed law, it can be seen that one of the measures that can be said to prohibit one of the spouses is approaching at a certain distance to another spouse. I'm sorry, this is my first time at a pay phone, I may have a little nervous, but I believe it wasn't bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12353	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vesna Lalić has the word, and let Goran Svilanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12354	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, during my years of working in the infirmary, as a neuropsychiatrist in the dispensary of health care at the House of Health, I had the opportunity to hear a lot about domestic violence, especially about children and women as victims of violence. So as a doctor and a member of G17 plus I know a lot about these things and I know how important this law is. We want to install European standards in the area of family law, because this is also one of the conditions for our country's membership in the European Union. We are in a transition that involves a system of protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, privacy rights, ownership rights, market economy, and in all this family and family communities have a special place. However, the exact data on domestic violence is very limited. Family violence is still considered a private matter, so no one interferes in relationships and no one reports violence in a neighboring or related family. Such violence is treated as a family shame and kept as the greatest family secret. Most victims do not report violence, because above all there is no real and secure protection from the institutions of the system. The research of the Victemological Society suggests that domestic violence, violence is more generally represented in lower layers of society, more often in patriarchal cultures because of the presence of domination and discrimination and a higher degree of gender inequality. The chances of a person who was a victim of domestic violence being a bully being three times bigger than that person growing up in the normal environment. The most common causes of this type of violence are jealousy, addiction diseases, desire to control, a bad material situation. Family violence can be committed against a mate, that is, a spouse, children, or older ones. The process itself is in all cases the same. It starts with isolation, intimidation, which leads to complete control of these individuals and a continuation of various forms of violence. When this cycle is over, there are moments of tenderness, so the victim pushes into her mind what happened to her and does nothing to protect herself. Statistics show that in 98% of cases domestic violence is mainly committed by men against women, and these are mostly spouses. For violence, it's a characteristic Balkan syndrome. It's explained by the fact that a woman is weak and addictive and that her husband is aggressive and dominant. They carry experience from their own families and their family begins to be based on these experiences. The abuse of children is equally done by both mother and father, and most often together. But if one of the parents abuses the child and the other is watching it, then he's an accomplice and he's as guilty as this first one. Abuse of children can also be physical, psychological, and sexual. Parents abuse children because of poverty, stress, addiction, and even immatureness, for young ones marry. The abuse of older people is the least known. Why? Well, the elderly are abused by children and grandchildren, whether it's material, physical or psychological. Violence is also negligent if they are ill or overtired, and children will not take care of them. For older people, it's very difficult to accept the fact that children abuse them, so they hide it, because they think they're on to them and that they're actually the cause of their concerns. And, after all, there are few parents who can speak ill of their own children. Sexual violence remains hidden because it is only 8% of women who address the Autonomous Women's Center and report sexual violence. And how violent violence against women is the research of the Serbian Victemological Society, where each other is said to mean 46.1%, experienced some form of psychological violence, and even every third, 30%, and physical violence in the family. According to data from the Autonomous Women's Centre in Belgrade between January and November of last year, 31 cases of domestic violence had a fatal outcome per woman, and eight women died in Vojvodina from wives or partners. Because women rarely appear as victims of violence, so about 70% of women victims of violence never report their case, this family law is very important as one big step in solving these problems. Sexual child abuse, violence of husbands against wives, rape, pedophilia, incest, human trafficking – all of these are the problems facing all the countries of the world. But in a country like ours, which had just come out of the war, which had devastated 1,000 homes, in which a large number of people died, with tens of thousands of refugees, thousands of unemployed, few of whom so far considered domestic violence and society to be a priority for society to react to. In the world today, it is a trend for children to dress as much and as quickly as possible to know in which ways they can be sexually abused. Kids still don't learn anything about sexual violence, because it's not in any of their programs. At the same time, authorities in this area for days and months, at least until now in previous governments, are discussing whether they are going to learn religious studies in schools, which children's history will teach, which writers are learning, and perhaps the most important problems that the whole world is having, our children have no idea. In addition to being uninvited children, I must admit, we, teachers, educators, who need to educate how to identify the victim. So we should work to raise the level of awareness of our society in time to identify and warn the violence in the family. It's a long process and it'll take years. Since kindergarten, care should be taken of children, in terms of identifying patterns of pathological behavior in the family. This law is a big step to start reforms in the area. This law establishes a new legal institute – children's rights, where special attention is given to the child's right to provide the best possible living and health conditions for proper and complete development, emotional and social. The attention is also given to establishing mechanisms for the effective implementation of the rights of children of the so far-reaching conventions. So, say, a child has the right to live with his parents and the right to care for him before anyone else. The child has the right to maintain personal relations not only with the parents he lives with but also with other relatives and individuals with whom he is associated with a special closeness. This law for the first time has provided for some new child’s business skills, such as. the right of a child who has turned 15 and is capable of reasoning, to decide which parent she will live with and how she will maintain a relationship with a parent she does not live with, and which school she will attend. The part of the law on protection against domestic violence, which I am most professionally interested in, is civil protection against domestic violence, unlike the criminal protection that provides victims with a new crime in the Criminal Code of Serbia called - domestic violence. This law objectively prevents a bully from repeating an act of violent conduct and thus protects the physical integrity and mental health and calmness of family members. In this respect, appropriate measures are provided for, such as the prohibition of access to family members, the ban on access to space around the place of residence or place of work of family members. For me, a provision in this family law is also important, which is that the mother of the child is considered the woman who gave birth to him. G17 Plus will support this law, because it is also the bearer of a democratic way of resolving the mutual relations of all members of the social community, and therefore I call on all members of the Assembly to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12355	The People's Messenger Goran Svilanovic has the word, and the People's Messenger Stevica Dedjanski shall be prepared for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12356	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me thank Mr. Minister for giving us the opportunity, submitting one good part of the bill, to discuss a whole series of topics that are related to the family. I thank those who have so far talked about problems such as domestic violence, incest, population policy problems in Serbia and very low birth rate. However, I would say that Mr. Minister missed an extraordinary opportunity to thank Mrs. Gordani Matkovic, his predecessor as the minister, who prepared this law, formed a team that wrote this law, because it was an opportunity to show that she respected her work, as is the order for everyone next to respect what was well done and to criticise everything that was bad in the previous government. This time he submits exactly the bill she has prepared and his presentation should have been an opportunity to highlight that contribution he made with his team, which is not small, to make this law even better. By doing so, he would have made one wonderful duty he had, an extraordinary opportunity to present to Serbia an excellent law on the family, which is a step forward, more complete, nothing less, if he would have thanked those who had prepared the basis of this law. The Democratic Party will, as has been said, vote in favour of the bill. Of course, I would still like to say a few sentences about something that we see as a problem and, besides, about the amendment that we have submitted, which is that Article 5 of the Law does not read as proposed – that everyone decides on the birth of a child, but that it is a woman. There's a reason for the solution that's been offered, and I'm going to say it openly. One reason is constitutional, which is that it is the language of our Constitution. Another reason is not the formal legal nature. It can be defended and I want to say the arguments in favour of it, which is that perhaps this solution that has been offered can be defended by high sensitivity to gender equality, high sensitivity to the equality of partners, marriages or extramaritals, which the child began. These would be key arguments if it were actually a step forward in relation to a solution known to other rights, which is that a woman decides on the birth of a child. Still, my remarks are first languages. We believe that "everyone" is not a correct formulation, no matter what is in the text of the Constitution. Besides, if you trust the president of this assembly, we'll be discussing a new constitution in a month. It will be an opportunity to change this formulation and to imitate it as more natural, which is easier for everyone in this society. Therefore, it may have been an opportunity to take this step already in this text of the law and to say that the woman decides. The woman decides because the interpretation of who is "anyone" who decides on the birth of a child would take this conversation very far. I accept the idea that it should be decided by the joint partners who started the child, but it would be better to stop by law where we were a few decades ago, because this is actually opening up an important political topic, which is the right to abortion, abortion as part of a population policy, abortion, premature termination of pregnancy, means of birth control as part of our country's social policy. I appreciate everything my predecessors have said about the problems Serbia faces today. Serbia is today the oldest society in Europe. One cynical way was confirmed is the thesis, placed in another time, another occasion, on Serbs as the oldest people, in a way that makes no one here proud. We are the oldest all of us living together in Serbia, compared to every other society in Europe. More than half of our inhabitants, citizens of our country, are over 50 years old. It is a problem, but it is not a problem that is solved by premature pregnancy or abortion ban; it is not a problem that we are going to push on the margin and call on that we should finance a third child or, as some have done, be best man to the ninth child. Serbia has a problem with young people and girls having their first child. If you walk the streets of Belgrade and sit in any of the cafes, you will see that they are full of young, beautiful women from 20 to 40 years old, who have no serious relationship, let alone marriage or child, and are at the end of the period when they can have a child. The same goes for men. We are witnessing a phenomenon, such as sponsorship, crime, which and how they affect the state of the country today. We are looking for solutions, and I would suggest that ministry representatives offer a programme, their proposal, their view of how to solve the problem of the Serbian population. But not in one populist way, but very openly to talk about the need for economic and social incentives in order for our young men and girls to decide to start a family and have that first child, because it is a very large number of very successful, most successful people in a mature age far from thinking about getting married or family. They need to be encouraged to take that step, not to call upon something that everyone else has tried, and in fact no one has done so to this day. This is a serious problem, and I would like to say that if the Ministry comes up with such a proposal, along with all other laws, relating to work, employment, social support for those who decide to start a family or have a child. In this sense, the solutions offered in this law, especially those that protect women, are solutions that can help them. What we hardly ever talk about is divorced parents who stay with a child, whether it's a woman or a man, and who are conflicting with their entire environment in an effort to raise that child. There's no real incentive for them, and I think the solution that's been offered here, with regard to the apartment, is a step forward that we have at least one problem better solved than it is now. What's the problem in Serbia is that the social model has changed. The generation that I belong to and older generations have had one model, which is: finish school, start a marriage, start a family. The generation that comes behind us has a completely different model and we need to try to find the answers why this other model is dominant. Success does not mean missing family and marriage, but at this point the most successful young men and girls, try to make statistics, those who have great places in the administrations of large companies, whether they're private or not, are those who live alone. They need to be encouraged to be part of those to whom this law applies, to start a family. Finally, in the very end, I would like to talk about one subject that is being escaped from in this House or when it is mentioned, then it is an insult, which is homosexuality. I want to say a few sentences because at the beginning of this discussion, something has already been said, with a series of insults. Insulting homosexuals, whether they're women or men, we're not gonna do any good. We'll just make them as unhappy as they are today unaccepted by the community of which they are part. We raise the degree and the personal tolerance of this House, and in this sense I appeal to those who chair these sessions, let's do it to realize that people are different and have different sexual orientations. A public debate on homosexuality in Serbia will not lead to a reduction in the population of Serbia, as insistence on banning abortions will not increase the population. These are special topics and special problems. Let's just be a little more tolerant so we don't live in a society where one good part is misunderstood, rejected, and unhappy. Just one step away from that is a family or personal tragedy. These are the things I wanted to say and to appeal to everyone in this House to be more tolerant of the phenomena we live with, because and how they affect whether we will have a healthy family and a healthy environment in which young men and girls who are able to do more for this country will grow. Mr. Minister, I thank you once again for making a good bill and I hope you will have in mind these comments as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12357	I thank Mr. Svilanovic. The word has a folk MP, Stevica Dedjanski, and let the MP Milica Vojić - Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12358	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the debate is on the principle of this law, I will take the opportunity to explain the situation that is currently in Serbia and which, in my opinion, this law can only strengthen, which is not very good anyway. In the amendment debate, we'll probably get into the details of this law. The paper also said a lot about this bill; among other things, some people who do so have commented that if this law is adopted, it will bring us an unprecedented white plague, because no one will want to marry and make children, or even have fun in Serbia, except with girls who bring a big dowry into marriage. Men will flee mass abroad, and women will marry strangers for whom our law will not apply. It's one of the projections that exists. I must say, in the beginning, that this law is against the constitution, according to Articles 17 and 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia where attitude is said to be uninjured etc. It's a little thing I wanted to mention at the beginning until we went further along with the explanation. So if this is exactly the prediction and if it tends to be right in the next period, what I just read, I have to say that we need it, because now the situation in Serbia is next, I'm going to read a little bit of the part that I've prepared. Serbia is at the birth rate at the last place in Europe. The last census revealed that a single household on average has only 2.86 members, below the average of a married couple with a child. This means that after a married couple, Serbia does not have a whole child. In the inter-list period, it was found that as many as 150 settlements in Serbia were not born and that only one baby was born annually on average in each village. For example, no baby was born in the village of Dobroselica in the municipality of Rekovac in the last 50 years. It is particularly alarming to know that in central Serbia there are villages that are mostly desolate and that there are no sights in the villages at all: Vukojevac in Kursumlia, Pljačevica near Vranja, Repusnica (Književac), Koritnjak (Niška Banja), while for example, the village of Javorje near Vlasotina has only one resident, while some village of Praca near Dimitrovgrad has two inhabitants. This causes the following situation: e.g. The school in Visesava has only one student, eight-year-old boy, while the villages of Odojevici, Kasalj, Raetic, Građanovice are completely without students. In the pleasure community alone, an entire school of 800 students has disappeared. And so, the data suggests that in over 90% of the village the population has dropped dramatically, i.e. It's alarming. For example, in the villages of Bukurovac, Ljubicevic, Tresnjev's population dropped almost 60%. Children are rarely born, and young ones are becoming increasingly difficult to commit to marriage. If they opted for a marriage union, it is becoming increasingly difficult to maintain, and last year a record was set by the number of divorced marriages. I'll give you an example: In 2002 alone, there were 480 marriages, and 441 divorce cases were launched. Divorce is the easiest to decide, statistically observed, couples between the ages of 20 and 30. The reality I am trying to present here is terrifying – young and educated who work and earn their way out of Serbia and remain powerless and old. It's our current situation. In just a few decades, Serbia will turn into a country of the old and it is not logical that this law allows foreign citizens, in addition to all this, to adopt our children. The result of the state's carelessness is the white plague that exists, because the Serbian people are not only dying as a historical people, but also biologically, and according to this data, the people have ceased to reproduce biologically since a few decades ago. Mortality is greater than birth. From 1981 to 1991, there were 22,000 less born than dead, and in Belgrade and other cities there was a disaster, our villages were completely relaxed and without any rejuvenating. In every seven settlement, as I said, no babies have been born since 1991, and seven births are coming to one of the deceased in Kosovo. That's the data, and that's why I'm reading it to tell you what effects this law is going to have; well, in 25 years, it's going to be a lot older than young people, maybe even twice. Those are some predictions. I'll give you parallel examples: in 1961 there were 74.6% of Serbs in Serbia, 1971 – 71.2, and 1981 – 66.4%, etc. That's why only 3,800,000 Serbs will be in the quarter of the century, and let's say the Shiparis double every 24 years. A thousand women in Serbia are arriving 42, in Belgrade 35, and in Cosmet 159 babies. Out of Serbia's total population growth, 50% is falling to non-Serb. In Serbia comes 0.95 children per couple, and I would point out that the average is 6.9. Compared to their geographical environment, to compare with others, Serbs are in a very unfavourable position. According to Fischer, from the beginning of the 20th century to today, the Balkan nations have increased in the following percentages: Turks by 400%, Romanians by 45%, Bulgarians by 38%, Albanians by 700%, Greeks by 35%, only the number of Serbs decreased by 10%. Within Yugoslavia, from 1981 to 1991, in ten years, the Cypriots increased by 28.5%, Roma 26%, Muslims 16%, and Serbs, globally, by 4.2%. In 1991, thousands died already than they were born in 1992, and in the coming years, the number of children and youth increased dramatically. This turns out that in 25 years, we'll be a national minority. The demographers of the United States have created a demographic map of the world and it is projected that in 2095 there is no state of Serbia, but not because someone will conquer and take our country, but because we will die as a people. I would quote Mr. Hadzhi Stojan Adasevic, a few things he said, I think they are interesting for our citizens, the ministry and the Assembly; he says this – since World War II, and this is what we find a warning phenomenon in our people: the number of divorces is growing, the number of abortions is growing, and the number of children is decreasing. Statistics say that many more people are buried than children are born. We wonder why; because of the disintegration of a family that is imposed on our people, and that changes the relationship between people. From a peasant patriarchal society, we became a society of lonely individuals, a society of egoists. How is that possible? With the best desire to help their children's grandparents, fathers, uncles, mothers, etc. They tell younger men in their family not to marry, to live, to have time for this nonsense, etc. What does it mean for a normal, healthy, real man in his 30s to live? He needs company for that, and that means sex outside of marriage, and if pregnancy happens, almost always abortion. It's a special topic that needs to be developed. This is the attitude of the opinion which, unfortunately, is widely accepted by even women who do not realize that it is against their interests – we will be together only while we are comfortable. How do the female members of our society go since they were talking about men here? They are advised by mothers, grandparents, aunts, under the influence of mass media – they teach their daughters, that you don't have to put up with some punk like I do father, grandmother, etc., have your job, be independent (which isn't so bad), but if you don't want to get divorced. We're wondering, what could be the connection between those two examples we've given so far? Logically, it gives a short relationship and a break; and if a child is born, and in most cases one child is born, it is left to itself, in a better case, grandmother, and at best a mother. What's really going on? It is imposed on an entire society of morals that corresponds only to a narrow layer of society that wants sexual freedom without any responsibility; it rejects an old patriarchal morality that is good for all segments of society, for unborn children, newborns, children, boys, girls, mothers, girls, grooms and brides, etc. This new morale also brings out the best people of inhuman understanding. What remains for us and what is proposed and what can be done, how can this people be saved? The last 60 years have done more evil than 500 years of slavery under the Turks. This bill, because of everything I've stated, needs to be thrown out of the process, because at the end of the day it's harmful for both men and women. A public debate should be held on a new draft, on which both men and women will work equally, which will provide balance between the rights and obligations of mates. I call upon all MPs who do not want this trend I have read, who has a very black hunch, to continue, to withdraw this law from the procedure, not to vote for it and to return it to someone who will know how to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12359	The word has a National MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic, and then a National MP, Ljiljana Nestorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12360	Mr. Minister, honourable fellow MPs, in every country that holds on to a law like this, a family law, would represent a pillar and take a very high and important place. But as societies change, as they develop (I'm not sure whether they're always progressing, but they're developing), the circumstances in which the family grows and lives are changing, and thus the structure of the family and the relationship within it. I am saying this because since 1980, when Serbia passed the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, it has been 25 years and many international documents have been adopted, and they have not become part of our legislation on family relations and marriage. We had, however, and objective difficulties related to the demarcation of the legislative jurisdiction between the federal state and the republic; we had a very difficult period behind us, in which there was no real knowledge of who was implementing the law on which part of the territory, and therefore there was actually something that was left in part only on the territory of the federal state, and then one part of it was transferred to the jurisdiction of the province, so that finally in 2002 the full jurisdiction of the Family Act would be transferred to the territory of the federal state. The adoption of the Constitutional Charter in 2003 finally addresses the issue of jurisdiction between the Republic and the federal state in the area of marriage and family relations. It is hereby authorised that federal laws, outside the affairs of the state union, will be applied as laws of the Member States until new laws are passed in the Member States. This, of course, opens up the possibility for the Republic law to regulate issues which have so far been exclusively in the jurisdiction of the federal state, concerning special judicial and administrative procedures for deciding the rights of family relations. The Constitutional Charter obliges Member States to comply with European and international standards. Since the Law on Marriage and Family Relations is not in line with this proposal with previously ratified international conventions, such as, say, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Hague Convention on adoption, the European Convention on the Legal Status of Children born outside of Marriage, this is our obligation, arising from the Constitutional Charter, to bring our regulations and practices into line with international legislation, to prescribe instruments for effective direct application. This proposal, which lies ahead of us, establishes exactly the normative system in the area of family relations, which is in line with modern European legislation and practice, with full respect for the modern concept of family relations, human rights, and especially the rights of children. I've seen a few previous speakers on child rights talk about something that's a problem because it doesn't know what it's about, but it may sound pretentious and intrusive, given that child abuse in the world is on the rise, and unfortunately this country is not behind the world, and indeed there are increasingly inappropriate and increasingly harsh forms of this abuse and abuse, it seems logical that the Institute of Protection is found in this law. The proposal for family law, which is ahead of us, offers better and more full legal protection of the family, and pays special attention to the child's right to provide the best possible living and health conditions for proper and complete development, as well as mechanisms for effective implementation of these rights. This proposal has 12 chapters: basic provisions, marriage, child and parent relations, adoption, foster care, custody, maintenance, property relations, protection against domestic violence, family relations procedures, personal name, transitional and final provisions. Of course, I deliberately listed the chapters because some of them contain new legal institutes that are really great progress in relation to the previous law and which guarantee that this law will indeed find many good elements in practice, which will be able to get out of this law. Of course, I'm not going to touch demographic policies here because it's not a matter of this law; I'm not going to touch any kind of abuse, because here we're talking about something very precise and I want to talk about it. So the first of these institutes I've listed are the right children. It is, in fact, a special normatively regulated corpus of the rights of the child, as well as mechanisms that guarantee that these rights can be realised. I find it very interesting here that the term "parent law" is retained, which confirms the right of the child to care for and care for the parents before everyone else while the child is underage. Many of my predecessors pointed out a very interesting thing here -- the possibility of abuse of adoption. Here at the right child, it is very precise that parents should take care of the child before everyone else, but we are aware that parents are not always in a position to take care of their child. Then we should really let the child be cared for by those who want to take care of him, give him both attention and love, and the state prescribes a very precise adoption procedure. And, of course, the possibility of abuse always exists, but it's very small. The second new institute is a joint exercise of parental rights and is for the first time in our legislation, although it has been in the legislation of Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Belgium, the Netherlands, England, France and our neighbours of the Czech Republic and Hungary. What does he really mean? It means a joint exercise of parental rights, even when parents stop living in marriage, but in the interest of the child, they find a solution to both exercise the rights and obligations of parents. Since termination of marriage always brings too much emotional charge to parents so that they can think about something other than themselves, although they always swear to do so in the interests of the child, the child is most often left alone and rejected, helpless and always carries a certain amount of guilt, he feels that it is wrong for some reason for this divorce and is completely helpless because he does not understand what he should do to help. It is precisely because of this highly emotionally charged situation that I hope that such an institute in our legislation will really come into practice, because it really protects the child in these conditions. Unfortunately, the third institute that appears here is also necessary; I say unfortunately, because our reality is not pink at all and because it is indeed abundant in violence and destruction everywhere in society, even in the family. The next institute is called protection against domestic violence. There's violence in the family, whether we want to admit it or not. We can read newspaper headlines in the course of one day in most newspapers, so we'll see how many there are and what forms it takes. The consequences are indeed severe, physical and mental suffering of children and women. This bill contains provisions on protection against domestic violence and, of course, I must point out again, this is about civil protection, not criminal protection. She's part of Serbia's Criminal Law. I really don't understand my predecessors here saying that it's the father who's a bully and that the father will be kicked out of the apartment, this or that. There's talk of a bully. He doesn't have sex in this law, and I don't see why we're afraid they'll be looking for girls like this or fathers like that. I'm not sure that criticizing the law from this position, and the notion that a bully is the one who is threatened, is something that will bring points to people. The fourth institute is intervention. This is an alternative dispute resolution mechanism in relation to judicial or administrative proceedings. The intervention is particularly important in family law, since divorces are traumatic enough for both parents and children. I'm saying this from the position of my profession. I've been doing this job at one school for years, and I know how traumatic this whole job is for those who do it, and I can also talk about how traumatic it is for children and parents. No one will cause a big problem because it shortens the procedure in 15 days, if there is a possibility that parents can hear and improve their marital situation. The fifth institute is called a marriage contract. Again, let me tell the midwives who are concerned that some property here will be able to pass on to another spouse – he is possible, not required. It is a contract where future spouses arrange their property on their existing or future assets in the way that it suits them. So no one's making them do it one way or another, where someone's gonna win and someone's gonna lose. Simply, there are such situations in life, the law foresees that possibility. If anyone needs it, they can use it. The sixth institute around which, I see, there are the biggest dilemmas here, is real housing. It is for the first time legally regulated personal service of housing in favour of a minor child and a parent who cares for him. So again it's about the child's interest, it's not about the interest of the bully. I'm not sure, and no one will ever prove to me that a bully is a suitable parent to take care of his child. I'm not saying again that he's a male or female bully. I'm talking about him being a bully. The next institute is emancipation. This is the basis for gaining full business ability before adulthood, provided that a minor turned 16, that he became a parent and reached physical and mental maturity necessary for self-sustaining. I deliberately spoke in favor of this law from the position of the new institutes that were entered into it. I think they're very good, that our practice will enrich and that many unhappy children will find a way to achieve their rights through this law. I have to mention that those institutes that were in the previous law, such as adoption, the out-of-marriage community, the divorce agreement, have indeed suffered some changes and that they are good. This proposal for family law that lies ahead of us is a good bill of law, is a law that follows a modern trend, a law that is in line with international legislation, a law that will help in our practice to do a lot of things in a better way. That's why the DSS will support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12361	The word is made by MP Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12362	Dear People's MPs, Bill of Law, which was given before the Government of the Republic of Serbia, whose argument was presented by Minister Lalovic... Unfortunately, in the reasoning given by the government and by the minister of the basic which is not said, and most importantly, it is in Serbia and the family and marriage in crisis. Behind these facts, which are at every turn, which lasts for a long time and only deepens this crisis of marriage and family, does not follow a bill that, in a positive sense, needs to protect marriage and family. Many provisions of the law are a negative picture of the situation. I don't dispute the new institutes that were introduced in the bill of this law. Serbia's governments respect conventions adopted in Europe, to protect a certain group of unprotected ones, as reported often in the discussion, children from violence, opposite sex and spouses from violence. But, in fact, through the provisions proposed and through the explanations, it turns out that in Serbia it is a tendency and that marriage and family are violence. Marriage and family should maintain, as they have maintained for centuries, love, respect, and trust between marriage mates, as well as other family members, means parents and children mutually. Here are the praises and praises made to the government and to President Kostunica and the minister, with a dispute that is the legislator of this law, whether the previous government, the previous ministry or this government, and this ministry, have no basis, because if Mr Kostunica and this coalition that came to power a year ago, they would have a family ministry in their government, because through the family ministry it is only possible to save and defend the family and marriage that are in crisis. Family and marriage protection is now being carried out within the framework of a ministry, which represents one galamitia by the minister and 13 assistants. I'd like to hear from the minister how many of these assistants are in charge of family and marriage. A special story and a special responsibility of the state is for those who are directly on the ground, in municipalities they should take care of family and marriage. That's what they're called. social work centres. It is inappropriate that the name that has been going on for decades, that the Centre for Social Work should take care of marriage, family and rights before these proceedings are brought before the competent court. The equipment of these social work centres is neither material nor humanely up to the situation nor the crisis of family and marriage in Serbia. The professional training of people, the human structure, the way in which procedures were conducted in the protection and preservation of marriages and families led to this condition. The bill seeks to highlight what is negative and try to save the rights of the institutions of marriage and family, traditional, which is in Serbs or in the state of Serbia through centuries. But can it be accepted if we look at Article 41, where we talk about divorce in a lawsuit: "Every spouse has the right to divorce if marital relations are seriously and permanently disturbed or if an objectively cannot be achieved by the community of a spouse's life". We've been witnessing back a few years, not to say for decades, that marriages are getting divorced after three or four months. How does this definition of "permanently disturbed relationships" prove in court, between marriage mates who got married three months ago? Is this provision supposed to have another additional sentence, that still a three-month marriage can't be with permanently disturbed relationships, that they can't continue to live on. On the occasion of many discussions on the powers given to the minister to interfere when it comes to adoption, as well as many other things, it is inappropriate for an area that is affecting the feelings, in the life of all Serbian citizens, through marriage, through family, institution or institution of adoption. Of the 33 amendments tabled, the government accepted only six. The arguments given are not essentially the rights of reasons why the amendments are not accepted. It is logical that this law should have been proposed and passed since 1980, with several amendments to the laws that followed, but this law without these amendments is not a good law. If certain things are exaggerated in the law, and too many texts are given through members and through norms, such laws may be the opposite if it comes to regulating certain legal relations. Marriage and family are not purely civil relations, nor are contractual relations, as is inserted here, as is the institution, the contract between marriage mates, before they marry, about property and other things, about the common property acquired in marriage; this will not contribute to the consolidation of the proposed marriage or the institution of marriage in Serbia. We listened to statistics related to violence in Serbia, Vojvodina and the world, on various grounds. As a man, I think we should accept everything good from Western Europe under these conventions, but we don't have to accept everything. I wasn't into statistics, because it's not a family law area, but if we're looking for Europe, let's take the good stuff, let's not do the bad thing. I read in the context that in England every third marriage is divorced, and in London every other one. Is that what we're gonna try to do? I would not want to pursue this, because then we will have no talent, nor will Serbia be rejuvenated, nor will the Serbian people survive to be majority in this area. I believe that only what is good, regardless of the pressures and any blackmail from your Europe or America employers, should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12363	Of course, with this information for every other divorced marriage more favourable than that information just now – it is almost the same number of divorced ones as married in the last year in one area. National MP Marko Krstin has a word, then Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12364	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't feel blackmailed and I don't like the state of blackmail. I don't think this law is a fruit of blackmail, and at first, I would disagree with a colleague who has expressed such an attitude. I think it was a law that was absolutely necessary and that had to fill the legal gaps that existed in the family relations of the last quarter of the century. We've been so far behind some of the family law institutes that we haven't arranged, the court practice has filled this with sensations. Although this is not a predetermined right for us, we have created a source of law here, and judgments were based on the right that was missing in positive law. This law regulates the many things that have so far been established by our case law. What's good about the law? There are some things in the law that could be fixed. For the first time we have established a system in the right way and the development of the system and the protection of the rights of the child, which is very important, we have better protection of socially acceptable relations in the family, social protection that extends not only to courts, but also to the authorities of the administration. If we look at the body of regulations that we have passed earlier, we have criminal protection, administrative protection and protection in the status rights proceedings before courts, in litigation proceedings. It's already one system of protection, which is very good. Furthermore, this protection system has been improved in its operation, to be more efficient, which is very good. So, a number of institutes have been introduced, where there was a need for positive law and where the courts have so far had great problems to resolve certain issues. I'll just mention the property relations of the mates. Whoever did something in the court, represented, tried, was a party in these proceedings, knows that the proceedings in resolving the property rights of the spouses lasts for several years, up to seven, eight, ten years, and that in the end it became hopeless. We lawyers usually advise this way - give up everything, just not the real estate. People get exhausted here, you squire, and there's nothing left in the end. This law has taken several steps to prevent it. However, the law itself will not be able to do so, it has created institutional frameworks, and it will have to do very much for the minister of justice, i.e. the ministry of justice. It will be competent under the judicial administration to control whether those deadlines prescribed by law are truly respected in court, so that it does not happen as with the Labour Act that we have six months from filing an action to law enforcement in a work dispute; I do not know if there are any cases that have been resolved within six months. It's not about this ministry and this law. It's a matter of the Justice Department, and there's a lot the Justice Department would have to advance in its work when it's running a judicial administration. From this pay phone, I'm putting the Justice Department on the job of doing it. I hope they do. If they don't, there's not so much good law that can be implemented, if the judiciary doesn't accept it, and if the judiciary doesn't control whether the judges really judge and if the judges really fail and rule within the deadlines that we have prescribed here. It's well done here, but I'm afraid it can remain a letter on paper. The good side of the law is that for the first time, marriage contracts are defined, a very significant part that I have already mentioned about property relations. It's a new practice I hope will come to life. There are very important provisions on the divorce agreement. So far, we have had an agreement proposal for divorce, which has shown certain good elements because it included the obligation of mates to agree on children, which is most important, but I don't see why it wasn't prescribed so far, which makes this law, to enter this property agreement. It's very important because it excludes the fact of the state, excludes too long litigation, excludes costs that are huge. I heard the argument here, I think the minister gave this explanation, that if parents can agree to divorce and do it in a relatively peaceful way and if they can agree on their children, which are our favorites, then I don't see why they can't agree on who owns the apartment, the cottage or whatever they have. I think that provision is very good and should be supported. From the new provisions, I would point out that if our public knew about the corruption of marriage, an interesting provision on the delusion of the civil personality of the spouse, which has so far been part of the prejudicial case law. Provisions related to the determination or status of motherhood, paternity in conception with biomedical assistance are also interesting. It's never been done before, because that's what court practice had to do. That's what we've got and that's what it has to be. It is an interesting provision on the right of residence or habitat, which was previously known in our right, even in some regulations, but also in court practice. The issue of constitutional foundation can indeed be considered, but here he has overcome another interest, to overly protect the child, because the state always favours child protection and favours marriage. The provisions on protection against domestic violence are very important. These provisions represent, in a certain way, a complement and form a whole with a legal system that is established through Criminal Law, so this law provides for these measures in litigation and non-partisan proceedings very well. The court can intervene, including moving and moving into an apartment, banning access, banning harassment on a variety of grounds, and that has not been so far. Such provisions will allow citizens who feel affected by domestic violence or by harassment to protect themselves within a very short and effective period of time, of course provided that the court does so within that time limit. They're very interesting procedures for protecting the law. It was based on shortening procedures, on their dispensation, which is the essence of the judicial system with us. We, by the way, have advocated that second-degree courts and the Supreme Court be bound by law to resolve the case within a certain time limit by audit. Because we don't get parties to solve their problems until they go to the other world. It's very good that it's foreseen here, let's say, that to some extent the court can distribute to the investigative principle, it means that it can correct the principle of party disposition. It means that the court can take measures when it considers it to be in the interest of protecting the child, especially the child. That's very important. It is very important that the court has to schedule within eight days of the filing of the action, or action, that the second-degree court must decide within 15 days. These are the necessary norms, by having to mention it again, and it is not mentioned more times – the judiciary has to adapt to it and react immediately if the judges do not do so. The question of whether the best name of the law – family law – was raised around the application of regulations and the name of the law here. As a lawyer dealing with this problem, I would say that it is very acceptable for me to make the first word to be a matter to which the law applies, not to be the first word – a law that is generic. So the "family" tells me it's going straight to the matter that's involved, and I think the name of the law is quite acceptable. I'd have some objections to the development of certain institutes. I would support my colleague, Leila Ruzdic, who spoke of the marriage contract as something that could be arranged in more detail. Of course, there's time in law enforcement to do that. It's not something that's so necessary, but it's very useful. Otherwise, some legally prescribed frameworks are missing and, of course, the most missing are certain clauses that could not be in the marriage contract. I think right now, at this point, it could be defined as two or three clauses that would be nothing. So that's what I think we should do. I've made comparisons with the applicable law around the joint assets when it comes to immovable property. We have a kind of conjecture here. It is thought that if one mate is enrolled, they are both listed. I think a happier formulation would be – if only one is entered, the other has the right to register first in the land book on its special part without consent. I would like to point out once again, when we talk about writing, we should say -- written form, not -- written form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12365	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12366	Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the SRS is concerned, we're not going to vote for this bill because we have more objections, but the first difference compared to the opinion, and many have taken it out of this pay phone, I want to put it out now, which is that this kind of marital and family relationship was not accidentally deregulatory. This is the nature of these relationships, that it was deliberately abandoned; both in our country and in many other countries in the world, it was always sufficient for the number of lawyers, experts, professional people who could come up with details to regulate family relations, to norm them, but it was deliberately left to a good part without legal regulation, because it leaves something that belongs to natural relations, something that doesn't have to end up getting involved and not being touched. Why did I say this? In certain parts of the law, which is very similar, this is not any revolutionary law, these are norms in 95% of the same cases as we had in the current positive family-law legislation, so there is nothing special, except a few newspapers that should be pointed out and which should be commented and explained. So nothing's like -- here, now, we've jumped, so we're going to the European Union or I don't know what, so now marriage won't be a marriage and family won't be a family. But there is something to be exaggerated, especially with the rights of the child, except for taking over conventions, which have been taken over before, which has been ratified by the federal parliament in due time, and what we have built on without anyone's coercion, no one's demands, no one's application in our legislation since the 1980s, so it has nothing to do with the last period. I mean, it's like someone insists that a kid just has to decide when he's going to high school. No one can interfere with him. And whoever interferes with the children, then now the children take their ears and say, "You will go to the store instead of the legal-berotechnian." You know how relationships are arranged in the family. No one has ever interfered with anything like this before, but it seems to me that the emphasising of such a kind of right is as if it is plowing someone to destroy their family. It's like he's talking to him -- yeah, you didn't know you had it, now look at it, so don't even listen to it, don't even talk to your parents or your parents, but make yourself think of what you think and how you think. That's what I don't understand. I don't think there was any need to go into such details into this law. It's completely unnecessary and irrelevant, and I'd even say it's destroying what we all think are some traditional values. I tell you right now - I have two children and I never thought of it, like all of you, I'm sure, and all the normal people in this country, that anytime or anything I force a child to do or that, God forbid, I beat, harass or whatever. But I have to tell you right now that I have a problem with my children being spoiled. Each of us knows how and how to solve it. And now you will decide whether I will tell him – yes, son, you better go to that school, and he will tell me – yes, by the law of Lalovic you cannot tell me. Now I'm going to ask for a temporary measure. Now I'm gonna go complain and ask for a solution against you, who are you to meddle with where to go to high school? Some laugh now, but this is the truth. This is just like that, people, by law. Yeah, that's right. Even in... I'll move on to violence... And I despise, indeed, not to despise but to think that people are in the right sense not the ones who carry out domestic violence. I don't know what kind of name I'd call them. I don't know what kind of law I'd enforce against them. But you'll see that there are completely illogical things in the norms you've brought. In eight days, a temporary measure, a solution, the verdict of a first-degree court, leaves the house in eight days. The possibility of misusing whatever you want without something like that ever happening. I don't want to get into technical things that would even be ugly for Serbian citizens to listen to. And that doesn't hold the execution. Within 15 days, there must be a second-degree verdict, because the appeal does not retain execution. What's the rush if it's already done, which is fine. Here, it's armed. Okay. No, let's go faster or better and get him out of the house. Of course I agree that this will contribute partly to the reduction of violence, and if it contributes in any way well. I'm very happy and happy about it. But there's one thing I'm not happy about. This will contribute to a huge increase in the number of abuses both in the judiciary and in the administration, but also in relations between men and women, relations with children, etc. In the most developed countries of the world, we had dramatic examples of how men protected themselves from it. I don't want that to happen in Serbia. I have to tell you that, you all know that I'm not talking nonsense, don't act silly like we don't notice it, there's been a moral collapse in all the spheres of social life, and everyone just cares about money in every way, real estate, property, that they get their hands on it at any cost. The possibility of abuse and fraud in these frameworks is almost unlimited. The possibility of these court proceedings being spoken of, and because of sexual coercion and domestic violence and everything else, is enormous. If so, then at least it should have left to come to a second-degree verdict, to look at everything in the process, to end the whole procedure, so that it could be said whether a full truth was established or not, where the appeal should keep the execution, if such short deadlines were made, except, of course, in extreme cases, where it is absolutely clear what it is about. I think this is just another law... I have no doubt about the proposing's intentions, I have no doubt that they wanted to protect first of all women in the family, who are unfortunately the subject of the attack on their spouses, who cannot be protected in a different way. This may be a measure of general prevention for someone not to do such a thing. Although I'm saying, that's what inhumans do anyway, and men who praise it aren't men at all, they're not human, they're nothing, and I doubt that this kind of legal prevention will affect them to change their decision, but that's why they'll motivate, you'll see... If I may have your attention, I'll be very brief, and I'll be done. So, it will motivate many women to engage in attempts to abuse and gain those rights that belong to them under this law, in the case of even god-awful violence and god-awful sexual coercion and a lot of other things, not to talk about bonding with a child and taking over complete property, etc. What is said not to be a limited right of property, but to be given a period of distance, exorcision, or if you want to be a people's one-and-a-half-year eviction without destroying the right of property, you know, destroy the right of property in its elemental work. There's no right to have, no right to enjoy, no right to use. What is it, a violation of property rights, essentially? I don't think we should do it this way, as revolutionary measures first and foremost, but we should do everything in our power to protect both women and children, every child in this country, every woman in this country. I need to tell you one thing that happened yesterday, to see how much our society cares about protecting our children. Yesterday in Vukovar, a boy who goes to school wore a Red Star football scarf. His name is Srdjan Orsic. There were two 30-year-olds, Croats, who killed him in a dead name and last name. The boy stopped the car, the car stopped and connected it. He stopped a man and tied him up. However, the driver of the car was a Croat. He saw the Red Star football club's scarf, realized that the boy was a Serb and threw him out of a car beaten and completely bloody. The news was on all the agencies, only one small TV station in Serbia published it in one sentence. No newspaper published it today, or a newspaper published it, I don't think I resent anyone. Who said that? What kind of society do we live in? How can no one think to protect someone who's guilty just because he's Serbian? No, but you can't talk about it, because it's this country's policy that soon the president of the country will be wearing our Dinamov and Hajduk's scarf to prove he's not a Serb, and all the other state officials. We're talking about childcare. They're killing our citizens... They convicted a man in Zadar (not Kojcic here, has a name), the verdict says – because he is a Red Star fan. There, all the Serbs cheered for the Star because they couldn't say they were Serbs before, so they could be different from these. So he's only convicted because he's a Serb. Did anyone care about that? It's not. Our concern will be to prove us: "Oh, that's nice of the kid to say, "Well, I'm not going to listen to you, I'm going to that high school, don't make me go to this high school, I'm going to report you." To keep him away, to keep his father away from his son or daughter, or in any other way. That's very important to us. I don't know how we'd do without it. So far, it seems like school hasn't worked out, so the parents didn't know how to talk to the kids about it. Now the revolution has arrived, and now they will determine how, what, and in what way. To solve all the problems in this country. It won't solve all the problems. It is a kind of hypocrisy of our entire society. I'm not criticizing this government just, criticizing all of us, criticizing the society we live in. No one went to ask that boy how it happened and whether he needed help with him and his family. God forbid it happened to some other child who is not Serbian nationality, so I think the UN would discuss it. This is because Serbian children are being beaten just because they have a Star scarf or Partizan's, anyway, and no one in the entire society will say "a" because that Srdjan Orsic has no one to protect. There's no one to say the word. And they rose up in the hour of the work, and smote whom they came, sweet one, and nothing at all. That's why we need to seek to remove the police and the military from Croatia, so that sometimes someone doesn't think about protecting a Serb somewhere. That's why in Serbia the kids are gonna tell us -- you're gonna tell me which school I'm going to go to; now I'm gonna report you nice, get you away from me as far away as possible. And then let the woman say that someone slapped her. There's not much evidence, but it'll repeat it five times, because it repeats itself five times, then you kick it out of motion and it's over. By criminal law, such the most serious crimes are punished in the worst possible way. What I would insist on is that in criminal law the most severe penalties are punished by perpetrators of domestic violence. So, the hardest possible criminal sanctions. But don't go to excessive legal norms, to legal regulation of what's regulated by traditional relationships. That's what I think no one in Serbia can accept and understand. I just want to tell you a few words about adoptors, because it says there have been revolutionary changes, how miraculous results will be achieved. I have to say, we have a big problem. In fact, we have three times as many potential adoptors reported, than children under the care of different homes, places where the state certainly does everything possible to make them as good as possible, but it can't replace them with a warm family home, no doubt. What's going on? The Ministry has the role of a second-degree body. It is the authority of the administration, the second-degree body, and the first-degree body is the centres for social work, through which it goes. So, what's going on? The child reported in Milanovac has ten potential adoptors, and this one says I don't like any of them, and the child stays there for years, because the one at the Social Work Centre has solved – I don't care, so be it and stay it; because they are unsupervised, because they are not diligent enough. The best solution would be if the government's authority in the first degree procedure could, but I know it's difficult and almost impossible. On the other hand, of course, there is a need to worry about not going to a family where this could be misused and where the child would not have adequate protection, care, education, education, etc. Now an opportunity is being introduced for foreigners to become adoptors. We didn't have that option in our law before. Here is double protection: point 1. predicts that if a year cannot be found by a domestic adoptor, and another type of protection is the consent given by the competent ministry of state administration. So, we have hundreds of cases of children who couldn't go to a family at any time, because the social work center simply didn't respond and went beyond that year. The first condition is automatically met. The second condition remains only the consent of the republican authority of the state administration and nothing more. We don't think that's a good solution. There are certain people who meet all the conditions, people who can't have their children for different reasons, and they want to have children, because it's not the parent who made the child or gave birth, it's the one who raises him, raises him, and who invests in that child. There's a lot more of them than we have kids looking for that kind of protection. I think that's why we didn't need to leave this kind of opportunity for foreigners to become adoptors, because you'll see, in practice, it will create new types of abuses. We know why we tell you this, because there have been several cases of severe pressures, five or six years ago, for some rich people in this country to become adoptors, and not some of the key conditions have been met, but also for some foreigners who wanted to get their hands on some of our children at all costs. Today it turns out that they wouldn't be good parents anyway. Fortunately, at that point, that law prevented it from happening. In any case, I'd like to ask the special lawyers not to praise the excessive normativeization of family relations, because what is necessary must always be regulated, and so far it has been, and whenever you enter the smallest details, there is a big mistake. It's making a big mistake for the simple reason that then, I'd say, everything is kind of becoming a business and what shouldn't be. Property-legal relations are, unfortunately, more significant today than 10, 20, 30 and 50 years ago, and you know it, Minister, I know it, and the least important is how and what will happen to children. I think that's all we're encouraging, because, to tell you the truth, I don't know how you're going to prosecute me, but I think I'm talking to my kid thoroughly and meddling in what high school he's going to go to. He can turn me in and maybe that's why I'm picking up, or some sort of temporary measure, or I don't know what kind of decision the court makes, but I think it's already exaggeration and getting into something that nobody should touch and nobody should get involved in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12367	I thank you, Mr. Wolfie. The word has a folk MP Gordana Comic, then MP Milan Stevovic, and then Ljiljana Nestorovic, so that you are not gone again. DS has 16 minutes, just to help you if I can. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12368	Ladies and gentlemen, the Bill of Family Law in the course of adoption, and it will be seen in application, reveals the kind of delusions that we have, as politicians and politicians, and as citizens and citizens in this society about what family is in our society, how it is protected and in what way it is not and what way the Corps of Rights is within the family, as its member or member, you have. Compared to the debate in this Parliament in our public, there are two campaigns that seem to be of no concern to the provisions of family law, but they happen to run at the same time. One campaign formally calls for the provisions of this law, arguing that the provisions of this law give too much rights to a woman and child and that it is absolutely certain that there will be abuse of those rights. Except that in the media, such statements tell everything about those who pronounce them, talk about the status of a woman or a child as part of a family, about the picture in our society, and what delusions we support if we talk about women or children in the family being able to give too much rights in the first place. The second campaign, which takes place at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is a campaign for a special legislative proposal, which discusses the need to reduce the freedom to decide on birth, i.e. the ban on termination of pregnancy, in the interests of the state and the nation. Apparently, neither these provisions of this law nor this campaign have anything to do with the provisions of the law that we have on the agenda. Unfortunately, they do. The content of these two campaigns and what I want to talk about in the context of a comment on family law will show how many delusions we have as a society, when it comes to the need to regulate marriage, family and family relations and when it comes to the lack of courage and willingness to face the prejudices and delusions that prevail, above all, about the rights and status of women and children in our society. In addition, through discussion of this law, we hear practically two different topics. It is one that is clearly seven or eight institutes that exist in this law, new, innovative, amended in relation to the 1980 law. The second issue is on population policy, i.e. nationality in Serbia. This law and population policy are two separate topics. Unless we're going to make a connection with the delusions of that kind, and we're going to find that, with a little cartooning, women have too many rights in this society and that they need to limit the freedom to decide when it comes to birth, so it's all produced by increased talent. It's the most dangerous image of all the delusions we can see, and hopefully we won't listen to silences in our society. My discussion concerns the support of the amendment submitted by MP Anita Beretic to Article 5, then the acts concerning violence in marriage and the measures expressed as protection against violent persons, or violence in marriage, whoever it is. It's about violence first. It's a huge delusion that any traditional value is to respect that famous proverb - hit a woman, she'll already know why. As is the great delusion that part of raising a beating, to which all disobedience and lack of showing respect for father or mother is to be brought out of the child as an authority. No one here has publicly advocated beatings as a method of exorcising insubordination, but in the context of delusion, it implies that, as we have so many times now, silences will be passed over what we know is happening in our society and what we have heard from fellow MPs and MPs as statistics on the number of unreported cases of violence in marriage, both women and men and children, as well as the number of crimes of murder, serious injuries. With cynicism, I have to say that the largest number of murders in our society happen between people who know each other best, so between close relatives, except there are no recorded cases that the sister killed her brother or hurt her brother. So there's that. Here, I am accompanied by the MPs that we have, as an accident in our society, to record it as an act of violence. If under this law we are not free from delusions and do not begin to speak freely and encourage all those who are victims of violence and evaluate socially unacceptable those who are guilty of violence, then we will become silent accomplices in the culture of violence that we have as a wartime and post-authority society in Serbia and what, if we want to call ourselves modern pro-European political parties, we must fight. The fact that any provision is too much freedom for a woman and child to address and that it will immediately be misused speaks of how much more fighting should be invested so that a woman truly equally takes her place in this society, in politics and in the places of decision, in every other place where we are not. There are always us where to work, to listen, to do without discussion and without question a lot of work, so they're in political parties, in companies, in firms, in banks, in executive committees, here in the Assembly, but we're not there, because somehow they don't get to where they decide. Finally, support for the amendment submitted by MP Anita Beretic, amending Article 5(1), so that it reads: "A woman freely decides on birth". In the Prelogo of the Law in the Chapter - Birth, mother and child (so it is the title of the chapter), Article 5 of Section 1 reads: "Each one has the right to freely decide on birth". I have been talking to family law experts, sociologists, members of NGOs, lawyers, female activists, colleagues and colleagues here in the Assembly on this provision and on this amendment. The explanation is that "everyone" is a common legal provision. Falsely, for the simple reason that the ordinary legal provision does not answer the question of who is – everyone. I would really ask the minister to explain it to me – if "everyone" is just a man and a woman who participates in deciding whether to give birth to a child, what happens if one of them "each one" wants to have a child and the other won't? If it is she who wants to give birth to a child of a woman, and it is the man who will not, how will the law prevent me as one of each to give birth to that child? The problem is if you have a provision that represents a body of someone's right, and you don't have instruments that will satisfy it, or she, anyway. Are we gonna end up in court? Is it just every partner in a married, out-of-marriage or any permanent community or is he any kind of social actor? Unfortunately, it gives us the right to have doubts about such a provision, because it is simply an attempt to impose on a very small door a restriction on the acquired right of birth for women in this society. And hopefully, because we have no reason not to trust the Minister and the Ministry, since they rightly took a good bill of law (and I had a debate about this in the term of the previous government), so we would like to hear guarantees that it is not. It would be best if colleagues and fellow MPs to support the amendment, Anita Beretic, clearly show that nothing regarding the wife's body can be prescribed by law. It's up to her to decide.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12369	The word has Minister Slobodan Lalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12370	I'd like to say a few things that have been discussed today. First, since I heard that, let me say it one more time or point out: my belief is always that every government should continue, that it has continuity with what the previous government has done or done well. I have repeatedly talked about that when it comes to what I found as a minister, when it comes to the Ministry of Social Affairs, that this is a valid legacy and in this sense is this bill that was previously done in the ministry. During this period of a year he was done in certain elements, but the essence of what was done earlier was that it was that. So let's take that question aside. As for Article 5, which is so much a matter of debate, I really must say one thing. If it turns out in a further discussion that it can really be... But I have assurances from people who have worked on this law, meaning from my closest associates (and there should probably be a conversation with people who have worked on the law outside the ministry), that this member in no way means what some MPs or MPs are afraid of. If to the least that could mean it, we'll certainly intervene in this respect, but let's leave a few more days to check that thing out, is that really so. The third thing I would like to say - when it comes to this family law is something that is completely logical, where you can already see behind a pay phone to some extent a conflict of two systems of value, or two value systems. This is also good in essence, that once again, Serbian society only checks itself in some way, in which it is located. So we have what we would call traditional, conservative, to use whatever word we want; we have this angle and we have this other angle that we offer practically by proposing this law. It seems to me, and that is good, that most MPs in the Serbian Parliament, which means most Serbian citizens, support this different concept, a different angle, which we are giving in the bill. It seems to me that this angle, which was present here, is the fear that too many rights are women or children, and especially women, perhaps most of all, are best expressed in a valuable system that he wrote about in his novel Ivo Andric. Ivo Andric, his hero, and this hero, of course, is a dark Asian event, puts in his mouth to say - there's a devil in his wife, the devil needs to be killed by work or birth, and if neither of them fails to kill his wife. I think that in this text of Andric's hero there is actually a second value system and this government and I, as a representative of this government, are behind the exact opposite principle or approach of this. What was present here, because these are some perhaps larger things of a general nature – we do not think that too many rights are given here to a child. We think it's perfectly normal for a child who's 15 years old to be able to decide which school he's going to study. In fact, it is quite clear what the aim of this norm is. It's a very common case, and that's what we parents all know, that we have a situation where parents are very frustrated about their unfulfilled ambitions and then they force their 15-year-old child to realize their unfulfilled ambitions. Every one of us knows what kind of accident these are and what's going on with that kid. So, I don't think in this respect the MPs should be afraid that there's too much right here for children. I don't think these rights are ever too much, but they can just be the other way around, and don't be wrong about that. As regards other types of objections that were present, which is a property issue (even at one point the issue of constitutional right to freedom of movement etc.).The inappropriation of these remarks stems from a simple fact, first on a moral basis, that someone's life must be worth more than the property we're talking about. I guess the life of a child or a woman is worth more than that immovableity, whatever it is. But to remove that moral aspect, because we often have to put it away in Serbia. There's another dimension. Namely, what do we say? We regulate the use of this immovableity until the question of what will happen to this property law is cleared up in court. We're just saying that in that period, until the court decides whose it is, the victim should be inside and the bully gets cold and out. I don't think we're touching property in any way, and I think it's inappropriate, in that regard. As for the question of freedom of movement, if we listen to that logic, then we shouldn't lock anyone up, we shouldn't put any murderers in jail. For God's sake, we limit the freedom of movement to anyone we put in jail. So it's a completely inappropriate thing, probably in some attempt to put some kind of objection that seems to make sense. Two more things. It's mentioned here, as a kind of remark, why the concept of family isn't defined. There are two reasons. One is that, as a rule, when a legislator regulates a question, he defines for himself the concept of family. So we're in labour law, we're talking about the Labour Act, where we define the family. In other laws, this is the first reason, which is practically impossible to define both the general and precise concept of family. Of course, there is a more important, pragmatic reason why this law does not regulate family rights as an entity. The right of family members as individuals is governed here, so in that sense it is totally unnecessary to define the concept of family. That's why you didn't get into it. As for the objection to defining the provisions on violence, I must say that the entire time there was a consultation of the Society of Victimologists, both in the debate and in the drafting of the text of the law. I don't think there's anyone who's more invited than a victimic man to help make this law work properly. As for the stories of foreigners adoptors, two things: and now foreigners can adopt our children, according to current regulations. First, it is necessary to have accurate information when speaking for this speaker. So now foreigners can adopt our children. Last year, four children were adopted by foreigners. As a rule, these are children who are distracted by development, disabled children. They're being adopted by strangers. I really don't think the whole story is appropriate. It's a completely lame story. When it comes to adoption by foreigners, one more thing, and that is the obligation by convention – so can we, as they can here. When it comes to a child being distracted in the development that no one here is going to adopt, I guess that's what we'll do; if there's a stranger who meets all the conditions, I guess we'll do it. It's just that it's something that, in my opinion, is completely lame. As for the thing that was more parapolitical here -- why we don't have a ministry for the family, I think the most important thing is what we do and how we do. We had the Ministry of Family, we didn't have family law. Now we don't have a family ministry, and we're going to have family law. I think it's much more important, the essence and content, that we have the law, that we do what needs to be done than the form -- whether it's singled out. It's my comment on the existence of the family ministry. Just one more thing, to finish today's exposure, I hear there's been an observation that I used inadequate words when it comes to bullying. I think the words I used are mild, insufficient, so I'm going to add another word to the bastard.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12371	National MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12372	When I spoke yesterday about the chapter of domestic violence, I immediately expressed concern that the SRS parliamentary group was against the protection of family members from domestic violence. Just because we were concerned that this Institute of Protection against Violence could be misused does not mean that we are not for the protection of family members. I'm sure the MPs understood that well that the public who followed it understood that too well. The minister did not understand or want to understand it well, but it is clear that we were merely expressing concern that there would be abuse. Today, Mr. Vukic has only complemented this fear because the first-degree verdict does not retain execution, in light of what the second-degree court must, under this law, make a final decision within 15 days. It's our only backup for that matter. As far as the child's rights are concerned, the minister mentioned our concern as to whether it was necessary to normatively, Decidedly say that the child merely chooses which high school he will attend. We didn't say that a child should be limited to the right of choice, but we expressed our suspicion that it should be said so explicitly by law, because certain things must be left to the family. In the vast majority of families – all of us, or most of us, parents – generally have no such situation that parents specifically order which school the child will attend. You have children who are a little more mature, children who are a little less mature, children who fantasize a little about choosing their future profession. In practice, there will be no judicial dispute if the child and parents have different attitudes. As far as I know, the only difference is that no longer a parent will have to sign their application for a high school enrolment, and the kids will say, "he doesn't even have to know what we're getting into." The Serbian family is an emancipated family. As for these extreme cases that a parent through a child will satisfy his ambitions, he will satisfy them despite this law, if that is the case, because a parent has to finance that child's education. If he's like that, he'll keep doing it despite this legal standard.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12373	National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12374	I only have one small replica. I must admit that Minister Lalovic is the only minister who does not escape that continuity with the past rule is when laws are passed by the government. However, we from this address book and in the statements hear that the congregation passed 87 laws, and we have never heard that most of these laws were already written, so that this congregation passed them. So it's the work of the Parliament, not the work of the government. I simply needed to replicate when we were being transferred to mention that the laws were written during the last government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12375	I thank Parliamentarian Leili Ruzdic - Trifunovic, by the fact that this law has lasted for the past 25 years, which means he was very good and important when he managed to survive all this. So it's all a matter of continuity. We'll continue at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12376	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon work. I'm asking at the beginning to determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I understand we have enough MPs to work with. The People's Messenger, Milet Poscurica, has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Goran Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12377	Ladies and gentlemen, we have already heard statements from the minister, numerous discussions of the SRS and numerous objections to the law. In order to avoid many things that are inevitable to repeat, there will be certain objections that are common to all so far, I would start with the first member and some of the most necessary specifics. In Articles 1 - 4, there are general legal terms that are not really defined here. The problem of the family and the extramarital community, as we have heard today, has not experienced any deeper legal-social definition, so with the problem of the extramarital community, we only meet in the paragraphs when it comes to crisis situations, when the property is divided; or, with the problem of the family, quite cataractly, extensively and indirectly defined in Article 197, when talking about domestic violence. I'll talk about it separately. Then we meet with an indirect explanation of what this, from Article 3, would be the closer definition of family. If I didn't keep reading, since I could only confuse the public, but it's quite the kind of approach, like if we were to define chocolate as a food item, a conditor product in terms of high calorie value, and then it could be a gift that you can bring when you go somewhere. So defining a family when you're talking about domestic violence is really something that's pretty unacceptable. The law abounds with many indiscretions. There's no mention of a situation that can be relatively common, which means (should I wait, so that you can extend my time, or should I keep talking? ..that marriage can be concluded by anyone without clearly defined marital interference. They are defined, but the ability to give birth and the ability to make marriage and create an extramarital community is almost entirely liberal, necessary and most often positive, it is the formation and creation of childbirth. There is no specific category, and these are persons distracted in development. No way to put yourself in such situations. What to do, when we know that, relatively different categorization of distractions, from the physical one, which is practically incompatible with the possibility of a marriage being concluded, to one that is often difficult to identify, to mild or moderate mental development interference, such a person most often outside the social ageing center. Is there a register at the time of marriage with such a person? They're not even mentioned. The final consequence – what if a birth is created with such distractions? It was necessary to pay attention to that fact, there was no speech in any of the items of this law, and I think that one important segment has been ignored. There would be a way – when the preparations for marriage are carried out, someone brings confidence, if a register of such persons exists, from the Centre for Social Work, whether this person, as well as those who are distracted in development or unable to reason, are subject to an assessment of that ability, whether they are capable of reasoning, and by not taking a step towards a marriage that can later be nothing or devastation. Interesting is an item that refers to parent - child relations and subtitles — life with parents. He would be extremely clear if it were known to be a divorced parent or an out-of-marriage community, a defined choice of child. However, the legal proposal leaves one gap that does not know whether a child can choose if one of the parents in a regular marriage decides to live and work outside the city, even in another country, the right of a child to choose, which is not even restricted, but up to 15 years old. What happens to this family, will it become more unstable if this element is introduced as a problem? The development of a child, Article 62 – making a hypothetical decision on medical studies and treatment is indeed something that can be almost unacceptable if we really strictly adhere to this. I think that in the need to prejudge all European provisions and all that you had to prescribe and introduce into the law, you gave too much freedom and rights to those children to decide on medical intervention, and that right simply coincides with some later members. Let us take Article 78(4); a parent who has transferred parental custody rights to another parent has the right to ask and decide on serious matters of interest for the child, and even this medical examination is listed. The question arises whether a parent’s child in a normal, regular marriage has the right to dominate the parent’s opinion with his opinion and not agree to medical intervention, and where one parent has given up custody, the other parent may be the one who decides to intervene. Imagine if the doctor is obliged, and he is, to present to the child what he will do (the "merciful angel" has left great consequences, have we forgotten about it) and to suggest that biopsy, chemotherapy, that the child will be hairless, that it will be a difficult and risky outcome, which the child will say - I want to operate, I want intervention. And when she's 18, it takes parents' support to agree to something like that. That part seems to be inconclusive, as well as the right of the child to decide his education. Can a child really decide on his own, when we testify that children, adolescents, are wrong in choosing a certain profession, going to college? They often work intuitively, reflexically, and imagine a decision about high school. What does that mean in accordance with other rights, such as the famous right of opinion and the right to appeal to the custody authority or to the court if it is not respected by the right to an opinion. Opinion is a thought process. How can he be controlled, how can a violation of the right to an opinion be established? It will now work in some special room, with or without custody organs. There are many unspeakable and general concepts – a permanent community, no marital interference, everyone has a right, etc. to decide on the birth. That has to be defined. The legislator dared to define a pure phenomenon such as fear, it is pure emotion, and it gives the definition of fear in Article 38, and did not give much more important definitions, such as what is justified costs, as the minister prescribes to the foreign adoptive child the adoption protocol and whether it gives it in English. Who's checking his knowledge? The mass of it can be challenged here, criticised. Of course, there are other people who will answer the word. I thank you for your attention and ask that we really respect our amendments, which have tried to correct this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12378	Thank you very much. The People's Messenger Goran Ilic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Bojidar Koprivica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12379	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the proposal of the family law, in a new, modern way, regulates marriage and family relations, and, in accordance with the evolution of these relations, he, in the view of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, regulates them in a better way, which means that we expect this law to evolve these relations and thus be a very modern law, which, respecting the traditional attitudes that the Serbian people have towards the family, thus allowing this area of social life to be regulated in one quality way. That is why the DSS parliamentary group will vote in favour of this law. Of course, what the MPs pointed out today in a larger number, and also the minister himself, are these new legal institutes, which primarily refer to the rights of the child, and stemmed from the European conventions on this subject and we think that this is also properly incorporated into this law. We also believe that other topics are related to this modern approach to the rights of this area, such as joint enforcement of parental rights, protection against domestic violence, mediation procedures, marriage contracts, etc. as topics and solutions of good and that marriages will improve in this regard. I'd like to talk about one segment, one part of the law, which I'm professionally related to, because I'm dealing with judicial medicine and art in that area, which is part of a law that deals with the determination and challenge of motherhood and paternity. You have some new solutions here. First of all, the mother of the child is always considered the woman who gave birth to him. In the old law, from earlier on, nearly a quarter of a century old, several members of the law that referred to the disputed paternity in the same sense were also considered controversial motherhood. We believe that this is in line with the conventions that are incorporated into this law, i.e. this is a good solution, and I would also remind myself that this solution is completely analogous to the old good presummation of Roman law, which reads – the mother of the semper certa est, etiam seulgo conceperit, patervero is est quem nuptiae protestor. In a free translation it means – mother is always the one who gave birth to a child, even though she started it out of wedlock, and the real father is the husband of a mother. We think that this solution is good, simple and effective, and we also think that this second part of the law relating to procedural provisions, the lifting of the deadlines for suing in all cases when the child is a prosecutor, and previously, there are restrictions, will make the problem of this species much more effective. Because, according to the current law, there were time limits. Another part of the law, which in a very reduced form regulated an important area, is the identification and challenge of motherhood and paternity in the event of conception with biomedical aid, which in the old law reads – simply not allowed to explore the fatherhood of a child that was conceived by an artificial insemination of a mother. It was clear that this part cannot be regulated simply by this norm, and we believe that it is a quite good solution that this area is more fully and more detailedly regulated, so that the mother of the child is considered a woman who gave birth to him, of course, with biomedical help, which is, of course, forbidden to surrogate motherhood, and the father of the child is considered a husband of the mother or her out-of-marriage partner, who, of course, gave written consent to biomedical fertilisation, with biomedical help. Of course, the law prohibits, which is very important, the establishment of the motherhood of a woman who has donated an egg cell, or a man who has donated seed to a cell and we think it is a good solution, which has been taken from contemporary European legislation. However, of course, it is not enough, and the lawyers know it better than we doctors, a good law often is not enough to regulate a particular area completely. We used to have good laws, but some areas of social life unsettled to the end. Then it was correcting the case law. I'd like to draw attention to some of the problems that occur in this area. About 10% of the disputed cleanups are resolved by a man confessing paternity. In other 90% of cases, expertise or skill should be performed. Well, then we come up with the problem of another law, the Law on Prosecution, which is compatible with this law and which is simply a condition for it to be applied, and which says that no forced measures can be applied to a party that has not responded to the court for the purposes of the hearing, or to force the party to give a statement. It's similar with skill. So the parties to the procedure, most often the disputed fathers, very often do not respond to the court's calls, which leads to these processes taking a very long time. In addition, our Law on Prosecution does not provide for any coercion to expose certain types of expertise, and in the modern sense of that word, it is always the least giving of blood for the art of blood groups, or in recent times the art of the DNA system, the identification of DNA profiles, and the party, most often the disputed father, can simply reject it. Plus, I'd like to remind you, so after this article, 267. The law on litigation, Article 163 says – the costs of the procedure for providing evidence are borne by the party who submitted a proposal to provide evidence. So, the mother is exposed to the fact that she has to bear the costs as a power of attorney. It's often about materially carefree women. Of course, here often, which is good, comes to the aid of the Centre for Social Work, but the procedure is also not so stalker and so fast and efficient, so in practice we have, it is my experience, that these parties, sometimes from remote parts, report to the Institute of Judicial Medicine in Nis or the Institute for PSR Technology at the Medical Faculty in Belgrade. So, often, the defendant doesn't answer. The mother has trouble providing that money, and when that problem is solved, then the party does not answer. When he answers, he can refuse to give blood, and it can last for years. The old law on marriage and family relations in its work, of course, in comments through court practice, said that in the dispute of establishing paternity, the court is normally obliged to carry out evidence of the art of blood groups and Republic of factors. There's an obvious mistake here, because the RH factor is practically a blood type. He also said -- but if the defendants do not respond to calls for this skill, without justifiable reason, the court will rule on the claim and without carrying out this evidence on the basis of other facts found. So it's a practice. And that doesn't stand anywhere in the law, and of course you have a situation where, if a verdict has been made this way, the defendants will probably come forward as the one who's going to challenge it with their appeal. Therefore, it would be good if the case-law, which would be achieved through good contact with doctors and judges who deal with this area, made standard procedure, and in that court, as a case-law, simply established a system to make this process more effective, by calling on parties and refusing to report to these reviews, will make these judgments more effective. In this regard, it is very important, and this often applies to other areas of medical expertise, to establish one procedure, so that judges would not wander from some anthropomorphological method, which today is a complete history and is considered an unknown method, to a DNA profile, which is absolutely sovereign, without neglecting even the art of HLA and red blood cell antigens by a method that is very exact, relatively cheap, but with a slightly lower level of information. Therefore, I say, the law regulates marital and family relations in a modern way and this will lead to the improvement of these relationships. In this area he has also introduced some standards that will make improvements, but obviously without some solutions in the Law on Prosecution, and certainly without good court practice that would simply see the problems in practice, this letter on paper sometimes doesn't have its own material in life in the right way. I say -- sometimes processes last years, women from distant parts travel early in the morning to art, go back with children into the arms of unfinished business; without wanting to be pathetic, but they are really earthquake scenes. We as doctors have always tried to warn the court that it has to, even if it isn't our job, to take measures to stop that harassment. I therefore expect the case law to be more effective in this regard, and the procedure recommended by the courts can be established at these meetings, in order for doctors or biologists to meet with the judges involved in this area and thus address this problem. I think this law creates conditions to avoid these inconveniences, which are not only unpleasant to these people, but can also represent a very unpleasant situation, and this system and the doctors of the arts involve us in the right way in solving this problem. Therefore, I say, the law is a good basis, judicial practice is necessary for it to be applied in the best possible way and I expect, regardless of what has been heard and some tones that may have challenged some solutions, that this area of social life is arranged in a better way. No law is ideal and only life makes it effective, and it is our duty to follow it even after the adoption of this law. As I said, the DSS believes this law is a good starting point and will therefore vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12380	The word of the Messenger of the people is Bojidar Koprivica, and Nadika the One of Momir.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12381	Dear People's MPs, the SRS believes that the existing Law on Marriage and Family Relations, adopted in the far 1980s, is much better than this proposal for family law, although the proponent blindly agrees with the family law with the European employer. The existing law provided full legal protection for the family, which is a very important institute in every civilised society, including ours. Our legal order has so far protected the family, which by its legal definition represents a set of persons bound, by rule, marriage and kinship. The bill introduces new legal institutes, such as the children's rights institute. Practically, a child’s business ability is recognised; it is actually a kind of business ability, when a 15 - year - old who is capable of judgment can decide which parent is going to live in, which is contrary to the Constitution and the law, because the business ability only has persons who have 18 years of age. You're even going so far as to have a child decide which school they're going to attend as if parents don't exist. A legal institute of joint parental law is being introduced and it is predicted that both parents can exercise parental law, which in practice will produce negative results, to the harm of the child, when parents stop living together. The bill also introduces a legal institute to protect against domestic violence. These provisions should prevent violence, but the measures proposed by the Proposer are anti-constitutional and illegal to Article 198; for example, "a ban on approaching a family member at a certain distance; a ban on access to space around a place of residence or a place of work for a family member". So if such a scandalous and anti-constitutional provision is adopted, it will be a suspension of basic human rights and the freedom of citizens. A process of mediation or mediation is in place, which will practically never achieve certain results, as it derivates judicial and administrative proceedings, and mediation and mediation cannot be an alternative, given the legal force of the mediation agreement. The Emancipation Institute is also being introduced, which practically means gaining business ability before the age, which is the opposite of the Constitution. The proposal for a law of the adoption institution suffers many changes both with regard to the legal nature and manner of adoption itself. For example, you terminate the contract, which is not good in the SRS' opinion, and you leave adoption to the custody authority to decide on this solution. The SRS does not consider it necessary to delete the child's upper limit of up to five years in order to fully adopt the child, as this will lead to numerous abuses. The Serbian Radical Party believes that it is not a good solution to limit the divorce agreement to the additional existence of an agreement on the share of common property and of a parental rights agreement, as it limits the fundamental rights of the spouses. Therefore, as always in the best possible way, the SRS has submitted a large number of amendments to improve the legal text, in order to be precise, to make the law itself better, more precise, in practice more practical, in order to fully regulate the law itself, because it is necessary to give particular importance to the family as the basic cell of society from which all relations in society arise. I hope you will adopt these amendments to correct the very bad bill anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12382	The People's MP Nadica Momirov has the word, and let the National MP Milan Stevovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12383	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the process of creating and regulating institutions, it is my special pleasure that she has come to the order of the most important of all institutions, which is family. On our way to European integration, we have dealt with and are dealing with human rights issues. Even though in one period of our history we cannot boast of the protection and respect of human rights, we must realize that we have made some progress lately. However, the question arises whether we could have done better. Of course we could've done better. It also raises the question of whether we could do better with the old law we've had so far. I think we couldn't, and that's why it's necessary to change it. Full respect for human rights begins with the birth of a man, starts in the family itself. Through my life experience and my stay in other countries, I realized that I was born and that I lived in a society that was not exactly boastable of the best respect for human rights. In that period of growing up, I realized that it was the only thing that protected me from it was my family, where all the members were always respected and everyone had the right to vote and where there was never any violence. However, I must say that I witnessed that there was no such case in my environment. I believe that society must not allow family to be left to the case and that each family is self-organizing its family relationships, because such a society cannot possibly be a quality society. Quality society is where the state provides a system to protect the family. So, what comes from what was said before? It turns out that the most important thing in this law is, in fact, the introduction of a legal institute, which is the protection, that is, the right of a child. The right to freely express his own opinion means that he cannot become and be aware of himself, which means also to be aware of his existence and his role in society. A good prerequisite for someone who can understand the importance of being in a community from the earliest time of his life. If I know who I am and what I am and that I have a chance to respect myself, then I can expect others to respect me. A good prerequisite for quality society exists when a child is given a chance to think, then it can participate equally in the divorce of parents. It is therefore quite logical to establish the next very important legal institute, which is a joint exercise of parental law. If parents agree with the child that parents do not want to live together, there will be no room for subjective moments, for negative emotions, for enmity, which is in the interest of all of us, and especially in the interest of the child. Also, I want to highlight good legal legislation regarding the problem of domestic violence. How important and necessary is the data that has already been brought out by my colleagues from G17 plus. I find it important to extract from this law another legal institute that has suffered significant changes, which is the issue of adoption and foster care. In practice, legal solutions so far have not been found to benefit children. Many of the problems families have experienced when adopting or taking up foster care are known. These new changes in the law will lead to the child being reprotected. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, let us leave all prejudice, the political background of this law and let us vote for this law that will not allow it to remain the old one, which we have found to have been bad. Let's never let the hardest thing to do be to protect us from ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12384	I thank the People's Messenger Nadica Momirov. The word has a People's MP Milan Stevovic, then a National MP for Radisa Ilic, if there is time. You have 10 minutes left, then Radiša Ilic if there is time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12385	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, one of the most important laws in every legal system is really a law on family or, as it is already called, marriage law and family relations. Regardless of society, civilization, everyone has made every effort to reach fair legal standards in terms of regulation of marriage, family, children and adoption. It is known that the first systematization of family law was carried out back in the old Roman era, in the context of property law, when they were so-called. The Gae institutions covered two large areas, which is persons – persons and actions or lawsuits. Hence, from then until today, there was a constant codification, a constant change in family law. Why am I saying this? I am talking about knowing what conditions our family law is and in what direction it is necessary to make amendments to the text of this proposal. As far as family law itself is concerned, family law was first singled out as a special branch of law by our famous lawyer, Valtazar Bogisic, in 1888, when he worked so-called. General property and civil code for Serbia-Montenegro. When he wrote those provisions, he left out the property rights of a family law provision. When asked why he did it, he gave a fat explanation that, based on a broad survey conducted in Montenegro, he concluded that he was so-called. Usually family law is much stronger than written family law. How strong this was the institution is telling the fact that in certain segments this is usually family law applied in certain areas of Montenegro today. It's very difficult to experience changes in this family law system. What matters most is, just 60, 70, 80 years ago, we had so-called. the codification of this property family rights in two large areas and that of the husband's right to respect a woman, as part of marriage law. There was no parental right, but there was a fatherly right. Everything was concentrated in a duck, or father as a family bearer. After that, we had different codifications after World War II. What matters is that today we write family law, we call it family law, but we don't define family. I have to say that the family is a group that is related to three important linkages -- or marriage, or an extramarital community, or a kinship, that has certain rights and obligations between them. It wasn't hard for us to write it in law, and I don't understand why we left it out. If we're writing family law, we need to define what family is. By contrast, in this bill, we define, for example, an extramarital community. I don't mind that definition, but if we want equality, then we have to define family. We've heard here from the representatives of all political groups that the family is the basic segment of our society, and if that's the case, there's no reason why we shouldn't define it and not describe it. If this is about new institutes, my fellow MPs have well absorbed all the topics. I would refer to the rights of children who are wide-ranging, but I still have to say that the Convention on the Rights of the Child, an international legal act, includes some broad rights. I wonder if a child is entitled to parental care, protection, maintenance, if he has the right to form his own opinion, if he has the right from 15 years of age to choose the high school he's going to go to, why is it not prescribed that the child has the right to his own country, to love his country, his army, his generals, to love his dukes, so I don't understand why we didn't put it, although in the international convention it's the right of a child. When I talk about legal institutes, I'd like to say that it's a very important institute to protect against domestic violence. I think there's been a major failure here in terms of legal regulation. If we look at what domestic violence is, we'll conclude it's all criminal institutes. We in Criminal Law have both a crime of domestic violence and all of what's mentioned here are certain criminal acts, and all of this is placed and settled in litigation proceedings. I just said that I understand why family law is part of property law, but I don't understand why this new institute has to be governed by family law. I have to say that the measures that are planned to protect the novelty are new; and it should be new, but we need to pay attention to how and how. Here's what I'd suggest. The first and second measures – emigration and emigration – can go, but the third, fourth and fifth – refer to the ban on approaching a family member, the ban on access to space around the place of residence or work and the ban on further harassment of family members – not only are they not constitutional categories and restrict fundamental constitutional rights, but they cannot be implemented in practice. I ask you, if a judicial court makes this decision against harassment, what will happen when harassment is repeated, how will the court enforcer react; will the court enforcer come out and, as the minister called yesterday, tell the bully – but he can no longer, we have a strict minister, strict laws, and this one will respect it? So there's nothing to it. He can't stand a court enforcer and separate spouses, whether married or out of wedlock. That's absolutely impossible. How many executors do we need in our legal system? These are the logical things that impose these solutions on us. However, behind this, if we wanted to implement this, we had to prescribe a legal regulation that would mean coercion for this as well. So it's not just a measure, it's got to be coercion. What if this measure is not respected? So how do we react? These are all things that we could talk about here, but I'm leaving these things to be clarified in the discussion of details, because there's only a little time left for my colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12386	Thank you, Mr. Stevovic. Otherwise, the General Property Law was for Montenegro, not for Serbia-Montenegro. The word has a folk MP Radisa Ilic, three minutes, and then a folk MP, Dobrica Jankovic, six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12387	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, following the Law on the Protection of the Environment, Tax Laws, the Law on Railways, postal services, came to order and family law, which was written in part in the reputation of the world's achievements. Thus, Serbia's citizens will, in respect of the insensitive model of the Western European family, create their family relations. So we're in line for someone to teach us what a Serbian family should look like, and let's not forget, family is the foundation of every country. Given the time left for the SRS parliamentary group, I will look at only two problems. I would draw attention to a problem that has attracted the public attention of Serbia over the past two years, which is hundreds of accusations of stealing babies in maternity homes in Serbia. It's been years since such events, ten, fifteen, twenty. The game of fate brings new data, and then the search takes place. Someone might have a broken family because of a possible baby theft. Someone hasn't mentally recovered from such a shock. Does this bill give mothers a chance to find their long-lost children? No, I don't. In Article 250(3), this right is limited by a deadline for a woman who claims to be a child’s mother compared to a woman who has been officially enrolled in a birth certificate born as a mother of a child, at the latest ten years after the birth of a child. So, after 15, 20 years, if a mother finds her child, she doesn't have the right to press charges to challenge motherhood. It may be possible by other legal solutions, but logically, since this is family law, it should be given the possibility just as possible under this law. For this problem, the promoter should have more hearing, given that this is already happening to us and that in some ways our country is faced with it. When it comes to domestic violence, open violence against family members should be strictly sanctioned under the applicable legal provisions. No one has a moral right, and no one has the right to destroy the basic tissue of every society by brutal violence. family. Whom did this bill belong to and who, besides family members, protects? Article 197 paragraph 2 sets out the following - causing fear of murder or harming a family member or a close person. That "close face" needs to be explained. If you anger a close friend of your wife or close friend of your husband, and if you change your personal description with these threats, perhaps even in your own home, you can easily as a "reward" to obtain a measure of protection against domestic violence, Article 198 – issuing an eviction order from a family apartment or house, regardless of the right of property or the lease of immobility. That's why now those who can fit into a close person's category will always have this law in their hands. With the agreed witnesses of one of the spouses, a close person and a capable lawyer, any, and a minimal conflict situation can turn into outrageous violence, and that further means sanctions for the one to be attacked. So, domestic bullyes should be punished with express and dragons, but for certain things and the introduction of some close persons should be cautious in the process of slow-tracking.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12388	The word has a folk MP, Dobrica Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12389	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have had the opportunity to hear what the Democratic Party's position on this bill is and I will simply repeat: we stand behind this proposal, so we will vote for this bill. Of course we have some objections, and you may have heard some of them in the previous debate. However, what I would like to point out specifically and explicitly at this time is something that is the fate of new laws, and that is not the specificity of either this convocation of the Assembly, or of some previous ones, and I am sure of neither the future convocations of the Assembly. It is to pass the law, and what its fate in life, in practice, will not depend on how this law is read, what is written in it, does it look nice, whether it is in line with some European standards or with that legislation that is current in the overall legislation of a country. Therefore, it is one thing that the laws write; and in this law, the Democratic Party says – it is quite nice, it is harmonised, and that is what the Democratic Party, in the area of which the family law is talking, stands for. However, whether it will experience realisation in practice depends on us here, from the Assembly, on whether we will be able to impose an attitude that will become a position in legal practice. We often witness enough that in legal practice what is written in the law does not exist and that it is carried out through certain improvisations, i.e., conditionally speaking, tolerance. There must not be tolerance here, because my personal relationship, and I would say that this may be part of our doctor's professional deformation, which we have a slightly more developed sense of the genealogy of things, is that when it comes to domestic violence, then I have the right to warn our entire public that domestic violence can produce a series of deviations in society, a series of difficult problems, not only in the area of crime in the narrowest sense, but also a series of sociological problems for society, so it has a negative impact on the development of society in the broadest sense. I therefore particularly underline the importance of implementing this law in legal practice. On the condition that we understand that we welcome the overall context of the law, in the sense that we consider that it is a step forward in the development of our civil society, it remains a serious criticism, and in particular through the debate on amendments, we will talk about the issue raised in Article 5, which is the question of freedom of birth, i.e. the decision on birth. We are going to look uncompromisingly, first of all, at the Minister's request that as uncompromisingly, and in some too determinedly, he spoke about the bitangs, etc., with the same energy and determination, he stands by the view that in terms of birth, in terms of freedom of birth, women decide. We're going to offer a series of arguments of various implementations in favor of such a request that we agree on that. This is where we get to that key place. This is such an important thing. I get the impression that it's not recognized in public, and maybe we're a little bit responsible for that, too. Journalists are not as interested in this law as they are in others, especially when it comes to the salaries of MPs and state officials, more than other things. We have to animated the public when we pass a law like this. It is true, but also challenging and demanding, sounds and implies a number of other topics and conclusions, that family is the foundation of society. The minister warned that when we talk about institutes, in the context of what we're talking about, it's not about family, it's about an individual, a family member. That's what he taxfully explained, and that's what we need to understand. We're going through that step forward. So I'll go back to what I was talking about when it comes to domestic violence, but also a series of other things that are regulated. When it comes to family, we regulate all things that surround questions, in the broadest sense, freedom of man. So this is a law that lays on its feet, based on the question of the freedom of every individual, citizen of this society. In that sense, we have to send messages of this kind and that kind of energy to the public, to look at them that way. We come to what I started with – and someone said it, of course, is the task of the Assembly to monitor whether this law lives in reality – to produce all the best liquids, and the law is in this sense well-set, this law in practice, in our lives. We have heard differing opinions, and we need different opinions. About these things, don't be convinced. I'm free to estimate that we've tended to come up with a difference in attitudes over some issues that we can't argue about. These are questions that talk about the rights and possibilities of the child to express his free will. We didn't cut them off on a flat-rate basis, like when we said that everyone had the right to decide on birth, everyone had freedom, but we made sure that according to certain criteria, biological and other, we determined whether it was for one thing of 14, for one of the 15, for one of the 16 years. These are things that are experienced and scientificly explained. The minister rightly said it was a multidisciplinary approach to creating members of this law. (President: Time.) ) So, about some basic things, I'm speaking completely politically now, and I'm going to be taxing in the amendment debate, we have to agree; the central thing that I'm calling on for the third time is to make special attention to the general public for the adoption of this law. As for that replacement of the thesis in the part of the debate that we had the chance to hear, this is not a law that cares about populism and our population. It's just gonna be a turn. Therefore, I repeat once again, the DS will vote in favour of this law, with an objection to paying attention to what we will say through the amendment to Article 5.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12390	I thank the People's MP, Dobric Jankovic, for having to say that, in accordance with Article 90. Rules of Procedure, the time of the DS parliamentary group used. The word has the People's MP Istvan Ispanović. The G17 Plus Group has five minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12391	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has been said here many times that we have one law that was passed 25 years ago. It's no problem, in my opinion, that this law was passed 25 years ago, because we have a lot of other laws that have been passed long ago, and today they are still modern laws. We have a problem with this law that it's completely out of date, that it doesn't have all those legal institutes that know modern family legislation in the world, and that's why this law needs to be changed. So, this law is completely out of date and I don't agree with my colleagues talking about how by patching up the current law, we would have an appropriate law in the current situation. We have a whole series of newspapers in this law, the minister spoke about it in detail, such as: child rights, joint parental rights, family protection, intermediation in marital disputes, marriage contracts, etc., and we have a lot of legal institutes that are otherwise resolved than before. I'd just like to make one little correction as far as the legal housing institute is concerned. In fact, here it's said that it's a brand-new legal institute. Lawmakers from Vojvodina who have been doing their profession for a little while longer know that such a legal institute existed in the Vojvodina marriage law, which for known reasons was abolished 15 years ago. Therefore, I belong to those judges who applied that institute more than 15 years ago. There's been a lot of criticism from the housing institute. I must say that this institute is such a legal institute that should be applied very, very restrictively. I think it'll be on the judges to measure when it's necessary to apply this institute, means that the owner or co-owner of the apartment has moved out of the apartment, but really only in those disputes where it's necessary, where it's in the children's interest. Here were the words that the application of the law was delayed for judges to train, because we really have a lot of new legal institutes and it won't be easy for these institutes to apply. But I'm afraid of another reason. In fact, whether or not we will have judges who will succeed in making appropriate court decisions within these short deadlines provided for by law. I'm starting with today's practice. In these family relationships, the simplest court decision is, for example, a change in the decision on the level of maintenance. We have in today's practice that judges don't write those decisions in a month or two. How will we expect such judges to make much more complex judgments, that is, to carry out the procedure and to write judgments in a very short time? (President: Time. I therefore think that it is necessary to select judges who will be tried in special disputes, under these very short deadlines, and that these disputes should not be entrusted to anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12392	I thank Mr. Ispanović. The word has been given by MP Goran Davidovic and he is the last speaker in the principled search.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12393	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the modern world one of the most significant functions of the state is family care. The new family law that lies before us today represents the contribution of the Resoring Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to European integration. The new law reflects the new character of family relations and aims at harmonising this area with the Constitutional Charter and the Charter of Human and Minority Rights at the level of internal legislation, on the one hand, as well as harmonising domestic legislation with international regulations and standards, especially in the area of human rights. In this way, this law protects the right to life without violence, fear, discrimination, physical and psychological integrity and dignity of personality, physical and mental peace, family, peaceful and carefree childhood, which is all an expensive goal for all of us. Thus, in the field of family relations, a normative system, compatible with contemporary European legislation and practice, is established, with full respect for the new character of family relations and the modern concept of human rights, especially the rights of the child. Based on two decades of experience in applying the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, the new law provides better and more complete legal protection for the family, with a special reference to increasing and ensuring the rights of the child. They stand out as special rights, independent of parental rights and defined parental responsibilities, independent of their marital status. In this law, the Court decides to restrict the rights of parents, unlike so far the applicable law attributing them to social work centres; the issue of child protection without parental ageing is regulated, and the institution of adoption, fostering and custody is promoted. There have been positive changes in all key institutes, and I would especially point out that domestic violence in that law is treated in a completely different way. With this law, domestic violence will be sanctioned faster and more effectively. Violence will consider any behavior that endangers the physical or mental integrity of another member, then attempts to inflict physical harm and cause fear. Marriage rape is also sanctioned, regardless of whether the marriage is concluded or whether it's an out-of-marriage community. What are these measures to protect against domestic violence? First of all, the possibility of moving a bully out of a house or apartment, then the ban on coming into the house and the end where the victim of violence lives, as well as to her workplace. Mandatory treatment of addiction disease, as well as psychiatric treatment of violent persons, and protection measures can take up to one year. Thus violence ceases to be a private family matter, and the right to protection is recognised by individuals in a particularly emotional relationship; it deviates from the usual family understanding and embraces a wider circle of people who can enjoy protection. This big step in family-law protection is the possibility of evicting thugs from a family home or house, regardless of property rights, as well as a warrant to move a person who is violently evicted; a ban on approaching a family member at a certain distance, as well as a ban on accessing a place of work and housing. Given that it is a completely new institute in our right, all issues will be resolved in court, with judges dealing with the problem also having to pass certain educational programmes. The papers are provisions that comply with the provisions of ratified international agreements, new legal institutes, while some existing institutes and legal systems are reformed by this law. The text of the family law is in line with the provisions of international law, which directly adopts Article 8. The European Convention on Human Rights, which speaks of the rights of family life, as well as the provision of Article 7. The Convention on the Rights of the Child. This legal solution provides that a child will have the right to contact the court or the authority of the administration by means of another person or institution and to seek help in exercising his right to freely express his opinion. The court is obliged to make sure that the child gets all the notices he needs in good time, to allow him to express his opinion, and to pay due attention to that opinion, in accordance with the age and maturity of the child. The bill retains the term "parent right" in order to confirm the child's right to have parents, rather than anyone else, take care of him. This family law provides for a provision that parents can continue to exercise parental law together and when they stop living together, if they conclude an agreement on a joint exercise of parental rights and if the court assesses that it is in the best interests of the child. The new legal institutes aim to cover the legal gaps that exist in the previous law, to affirm certain children's and civil rights and to fully promote citizens' participation in all the processes that concern them, and thus take full responsibility for their own lives. One of the newspapers is the Emancipation Institute, which provides for the coverage of the legal gap from the previous law by which the underage worker gained full business ability before his adulthood only if he married, and now a minor from 16 years of age will have full business capacity. Children will be given the opportunity to participate in making all decisions important to their lives. By entering into force of this law, a 15-year-old child who is able to reason, he will have the right to just decide which parent he will live with and how he will keep in touch with the parent he does not live with. Also, he'll be able to decide to agree to a medical procedure. A 10-year-old child, if he is able to judge, has the right to agree with adoption and foster care and to only suggest who his guardian will be. In short, children will be able to express their views in any judicial and administrative procedure where they decide on their rights, which, most often, no one has asked them about. When it comes to material family security, instead of the municipal average, an average republican salary is introduced as a censorship for the exercise of these rights. The institutions of the previous law, such as: the extramarital community, the paternity assumption, adoption, custody and foster care, suffered certain changes. The adoption institute is no longer a private law contract, but a form of child protection without parental custody decided by the custody authority is a solution. And instead of the two so far, this law knows only one kind of adoption. Now the upper limit is to adopt the adulthood, while the lower limit is three months of life. The mother cannot give consent to adopt at birth, but after the child is two months old, and the deadline within which he can change his mind and withdraw that consent is 30 days. The adoptors can be people who are at least 18 and 45 years of age from a child. In addition to marriage partners and non-marriage partners, individuals and foreign citizens can be adopted under certain, strictly controlled conditions. In this law, the divorce agreement is also limited by the existence of a written agreement between the spouse on the denominations of the common property, in addition to the existence of an agreement on the exercise of family law. That part refers to Article 40. This was to encourage spouses to resolve two of the most important segments of their relationship after divorce by mutual agreement, in order to have the right to a contractual divorce. All procedures in the area of family relations are created as urgent, i.e. the courts will be obliged to hold the first hearing at the latest within 15 days, and if it is a case of protection against domestic violence within eight days at the latest. It is obvious that the new law will qualitatively interfere with the internal affairs of our families and fundamentally change some of our rules of conduct, especially when it comes to domestic violence, especially when we know that almost 80% of the victims among women never report the case, with no small number or children being abused and left without legal protection. Given that Serbia is a traditional society and that the family is a strong institution, this law will certainly help regulate these relations in a fundamental and quality way to ensure our way towards European integration. That is why the Democratic Party of Serbia will support this law and vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12394	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? Please, the word is by MP Anita Beretic, the authorised representative of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12395	Dear President, before I try to sum up this two-day debate, I do ask you, on the basis of Article 82. Rules of Procedure, let's determine the quorum. I doubt we have a quorum to work with.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-11-0.u12396	Thank you. Please return to your location to help us determine the quorum. Please, we have a request from the mandated representative of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group - Boris Tadic to determine the quorum. I ask all MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I ask Mrs. Beretic to insert her card, because on the basis of the decision of the Administrative Committee, one who seeks to determine the quorum must be present in the O.R. and participate in the determination of the quorum. Thank you. Thank you. We don't have a quorum, so I'm taking a three-minute break. [[After a break.]] I find the Assembly doesn't have a quorum right now to keep working, so it's going to work for the next few weeks. It's a great pleasure. We'll continue our work at 10.00 in the morning of 16 February. I congratulate everyone on Statehood Day February 15th, and I congratulate everyone who celebrates the glory. Congratulations to the Serbian Radical Party tomorrow. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 102 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 86 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Radojko Obradović, Goran Svilanovic, Zarko Korac, Miroslav Markicevic, Radic Jokovic - in the morning. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE FAMILY LAW (principles ; details ) I would like to remind you that at the end of the last day of the session, Parliament MP Anita Beretic, authorised representative of the Democratic Party Group, Boris Tadic, appeared at the end of the session. He has the word of MP Anita Beretic.
