ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19749	Dear People's MPs, good afternoon, continue the session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, only 79 MPs are present in the hall and there are no conditions for the start of the working day. I am delaying the start of the session, based on Article 86(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in 11.10 hours. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, once again good day, continue the session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, more than one third of the MPs are present in the hall and we can start working day. Immediately at the beginning of a notice: please, the 40th session of the Justice and Management Committee will continue immediately, in the third floor room. So, members of the Justice and Administration Committee, immediately to work on the Committee on Justice and Administration. We move on to a joint principle search of the 1-5th item of the agenda: – PROPOSALS ON THE AMENDMENTS OF THE PIO LAW, VOLVAL PENSION FUNDS, PAYMENTS FOR PUBLICATIONS AND PRESIDENTS OF UNPAYED PENSION IN THE PUBLIC DULATION (contribution) The word has Momir Marković, a National MP, and be prepared by Natasa Jovanovic, and then by order.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19751	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as early as Thursday at 6:30 p.m., the President of the Assembly (and then chairing once more by the end of the working day) invited me to prepare myself to go out for a pay phone. The reason I'm only talking today is very simple. From 18.30 to 20.00 hours, as we worked, two parliamentary groups, from DOS and one and the other, proved to Serbian citizens who are a bigger thief. Is it a bigger thief to take a commission for Cementara Popovac or take state money and make them a National Savings Bank and then privatize it; whether it's a bigger thief to vote from Bodrum or to take money at the privatisation of "Knjiza Miloša"; whether it's a bigger thief to take money at some of the privatisations, say "US Steel", or to blackmail the Serbian government so for every vote, for every outing, for every legal project to look for a place on boards or solar pay, which will say "money in the sun". So Serbia's citizens listened for an hour and a half, although I think it was a little bit, about dirty laundry, to all the thieves, about what the "bulldozer revolution" power has stolen. It is clear to all today that there is very little difference between the DOS until 2003 and this DOS since 2003. There are honest people in this parliamentary group in the ruling coalition, but compared to those who have already polluted the mustache, the number is relatively small. I listened to Minister Lalovic's statement, and I am sure that Minister Lalovic convinced MP Lalovic to vote for these legal projects. I also listened to the presentation of Minister Dinkic, and I am convinced that Minister Dinkic, MP Lalovic, MP Lalovic, whose hands today are the fate of all Serbia, pensioners, employees, health care, education and everything else, directly or indirectly, and MP Lalovic or Minister Lalovic, as you will, has no parliamentary group. Who does he belong to? Could such a man, who has sold so coldly and the few voters who voted for his party, be allowed to decide today on pensions, decide tomorrow on a social programme, decide the day after tomorrow on employment, etc. I think Serbia must finally put an end to the volunteerism of some, whose place will be on Serbia's political footing immediately after the next elections. Once again, four or five legislative projects make it impossible for MPs, to unite the debate, and again to disable MPs, primarily the SRS, because the other parties very little go out for a pay phone and mostly don't spend time, to say what they have on these legal projects. I will begin an analysis of this law on amendments and additions to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act from the end, and I will start with Article 79, which says, "This law takes effect on the eighth day of publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia, and is applicable from 1 January 2006". This practice to be applied a year, six months, three months after it took effect, you introduced. However, here there are at least two more pearls in this article: "Articles 22, paragraph 3 and Article 75 of Article 3 of this Law, which will apply from 1 April 2006," the latter said. In the third position, the provisions of Article 1, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, etc. to Articles 50, and Articles 54, 60 and 61 will apply from 1 January 2007, which is the law we are passing today. Two members will apply from tomorrow, three members will apply from the end of the year, nine members will apply from the end of 2006 and some 15 or 20 members will apply from 2007. This looks to me like if, for example, the train sender announced the train arrival at the train station, so he could say - the fast train arrives at 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5. Unbelievable! In legal practice, this law has never existed before. However, since you are innovators, rationalisers and inventors, I will not be surprised to pass a bill that we will vote on, which will apply since 2006. Minister Lalovic says this law does not affect anyone, pensions do not shrink. You've moved the age line for two years, that's Article 19. Family pension has also been moved for two years, that's Article 29. The pension rate – 25%, in article 76, and 25% of the average personal income, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, is 4,400 dinars, so much will be the lowest pension. When a pensioner separates 2,000 for bread and milk, for rent, for electricity, for all that you have charged him, can you live with 4,000? After all, some of the MPs tried to live off the average personal income last year or before last year, so they didn't make it through for a month. Today, when you bring retirement and disability to this branch, when you have brought health care to these branches to buy 3/4 medicines, when a drug costs over 1,000 dinars, I ask you – how can you live? Thanks to you, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, we have 1,300,000 pensioners, we have about 1,000,000 unemployed, at least 600,000 if not more, thanks to you running this country since 2000. We have about six million hungry people in Serbia, one working, one retired, one unemployed, and one working in those agencies, people's offices, in the civil defender's offices, or how you've already baptized all that red tape that you first passed legally through the assembly, and then you've hired all those who've ever stuck one plaque to your banner. It's said they won't cut pensions. What's a reduction in pension coordination once a year? So far, we've had a double pension adjustment with the cost of living. How many pensions were able to keep track of the cost of living. You'll be coordinating once a year today. Today you'll be in a situation where in two years, pensions are broken by at least 40%. That's a fact. That's what this legal project of yours is proposing. The second big scam you're preparing is this voluntary pension insurance bill. It's very simple, first you let your tycoons get well-hit, which you would say to me in the village, to raise capital and today they're going to open voluntary insurance companies. They don't have any other money for that. You're creating again, just in a different way, to Dafin and the Horse. What's gonna happen? In this project, in one of the members of the Bill's proposals, you have a planned bankruptcy for these insurance companies. What happens to those who invest money in these societies, and they go bankrupt? Who's gonna make up for these people's money? Who's going to make up for everything they've invested in these people? Next, why would a man invest in this voluntary insurance of yours and not invest, say, in a bank? And his interest is growing there, it's smaller than the interest you're predicting, but it's safer. It would be safer and more accurate if we had state banks. We don't have state banks. The ones that came from abroad, they came to pick up the capital and leave. You're discovering an affair after the affair. The fact is these judges of the Supreme Court and the prosecutors are your men. You set them up. You check out who it is, whether it was Natasa Micic at the time of "Sablje", at the time of emergency, named these people or were they set up sooner or later. But you make a deal. As for this last one, the fight between Dinkic and Davinic, I have information that the evening before that was at dinner, got drunk, got into a fight and now the state needs to suffer for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19752	I thank Mr. Markovic. The word has been made by Miss Natasa Jovanovic, so let the MP Dusan Prorokovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19753	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Chairman, please silence your MPs from the parliamentary majority, because Mr. Markovic did not start to say what these two dinners were. If you went with that list, with the food and the drink, you'd grab your head, like they were eating roasted giraffes. There were bills like that, so they bought it. As for these laws proposed by Mladjan Dinkic and Slobodan Lalovic, the SRS has for months been pointing to the public of Serbia, pensioners and citizens who are yet to reach the age limit, defined by your bill, to retire, that the law is very bad, that it will lead to social shifts and major problems in every sense for Serbian citizens, as shown everywhere and in every place. Yesterday I spent all day in The Tower, a place that is tempting for all political parties in Serbia. Some have realized that The Tower is the main scene of political events and thinks they have a chance. I can inform you that the SRS is entering the finish line of its winning campaign in the municipality and that the citizens of Kula on September 25th will certainly vote for the SRS-Tomislav Nikolic list at all polling stations. When last night, after a full-day tour of the municipality of Kula, I came to the Meat Community of Sivac, to the stands scheduled by the Serbian Radical Party, the citizens first asked me what would happen to the law proposed by Slobodan Lalovic, probably bearing in mind the amendment, or the announcement of the SPS parliamentary group that they would not vote for the laws unless their amendments were adopted. The answer to that question will be given to citizens in the voting day. In a longer conversation with them, while the stands lasted last night, in a crowded hall of the House of Culture in Sivac, individual questions were raised for some citizens, who are very concerned about their future and for people who do not know what and where else. Trust in the government of the Republic of Serbia is, according to public opinion polls, less and less from day to day. A category of pensioners, which is 1,300,000, so those close to the age limit and working boundaries to wait for pensions, also several hundred thousand, and over a million unemployed, so their children, then four million hungry below the poverty line in Serbia. Now you come to the fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or Minister Lalovic, is proposing that pensions be coordinated once a year, that the process goes gradually and is aligned with the cost of living. Kolundžić Hejnalka, from Kula, or from Sivac, asked me one question, I said last night that I would ask the minister, who is not here, what to do, what to do, who is 37 years old, who is well-fused, who worked on the most difficult jobs in the failed tower, at 50 years of life, and 51 years of the next two years; 37 years of the benefits, 51 years of life, the factory failed and destroyed during DOS rule, sold out, destroyed, and all in Serbia. A woman doesn't have a job. What are you gonna do with one of those cases? How do you explain to the pensioners and your family members and all those who ask you that pensions will be coordinated once a year only with the cost of living? I'd like to ask the MPs of the so-called People's Republic. The ruling majority to pay attention to what I'm going to say in the next few minutes. It is about what the average consumer basket of products for June 2005 contains, as it is the basic rapper by which life costs are determined on the basis of which pensions are to be calculated in Serbia. There were MPs here who agreed to the kind of experiment – how to survive with the average salary in Serbia. The MPs who participated in this "fantastic" project, with 12,000 dinars of the budget, themselves admitted, as Mr. Vukic, after seven days that it is impossible – to live without paying the bill, to eat one cake each day, to drink some water, sorry, but it is not possible. Now explain to the pensioners in Serbia and Mrs Kolundzic, who does not know how to earn a pension after years of hard work, and not only to the people of Sivac and the whole of Kula, but also to Kragujevac, Belgrade, Pirota, Vranja, the whole of Serbia, how to survive a pensioner with your synchronising profit when the average consumer basket, according to you and the Republic Bureau of Statistics, for example, for a period of one month for a four-member family predicts, imagine fantastic 11 liters of yogurt; for four family members - 11 liters of yogurt in a month. As it says here, as you've calculated it, it is, therefore, not full of two glasses a day, so that a father and mother with two children can be arranged to drink; of course, parents will always give to their children, and whether it is enough for those children. With the price that's, to say the least, falsified, you're lying to the citizens of Serbia. The Republic Bureau of Statistics, according to which pensions will be coordinated, on the basis of the cost of living – you can see that potatoes, beans, black onions, spinach, blueberry, sweet cabbage, peas in pods, cucumber, tomatoes, tomato potatoes in jars, strawberries, cherry, bananas, lemons, peaches, caysies, jam and all of this here listed in grams of minimums, with false prices that do not exist in any store in Serbia, that you now go and buy it. It's easy for you, so it's easy with parliamentary salaries, it's easy for Dinkic, it's easy for Mirosinki, it's easy for members of the government, but what to do with a pensioner, what to do with one who doesn't have a chance today to get 100 dinars to buy one loaf of bread, a liter of milk or something else left. I suppose you're well trained or prepared, you who defend this proposal from the government, to speak the opposite, but this is a language of fact and numbers. These figures are inexorable and say that the average consumer basket product for June of 2005... And it's really pointless for you to tell a pensioner that you're going to coordinate this way of retirement, to list for him what's a thinking noun for him, such as fresh carp, chicken meat without bones, various products that fall into desserts, so milk chocolate, and candy, various cookies, expensive hygiene funds, because that's not what a pensioner has. He has to decide: he will either buy minimum hygiene funds or buy something to eat; there is no other cost of living, electricity, utility and all that a pensioner has to pay for. As your scale and method of alignment under Lalovic's law goes, in a few years, pensions in nominal terms will be less than today, September 19th by 50%. A special story is the investment pension fund proposed by Mladjan Dinkic. MPs, and even those in the ruling structure, who are a little more interested in developments in the movement of the money and capital market around the world, know that just over a year ago, the biggest financial affair with Enron investment fund that broke down in just one single day occurred in America. As for Serbian yuppies and those who will deal with capital and securities speculation, things are very clear. Here they are, sitting at the top of the state government, perhaps you don't even see them naked, to say now – I am the one, but they are located in banks under Dinkic's control, in the financial sector, which is controlled by Dinkic and Radovan Jelasic. They, i.e. Speculators on the capital and securities stock exchange are willing to use such a one-time scam, such as luring citizens to come and invest their funds, to play the possible trust of the people you call to invest in this fund for the second or third pillar of pension insurance, so, for just one night, as it did in America. These stock exchange calculations are, in fact, the most profitable business for them and these days many economic experts, who at least declare themselves not to be members of political parties, are clearly talking about it being suitable for those who, in the future, will, without economy, because the economy is completely destroyed, without the launch of production, through expensive bank loans, through speculations on the stock market, to be rich, especially those individuals who are tied to the top of the state government, to individual political groups, especially those from whose ranks are ministers and governors. As far as experience is concerned, when you are already proposing and calling on citizens to invest in this fund, the real question for Mladjan Dinkic, who has escaped again today, and I hear he will go to Crvenkovski and the environment to give citizens a kilo or two kilos of sugar, he and his unfortunate Popovic from G17 plus... And if he gave them a whole truck of sugar, the citizens of Red will vote for the SRS, I'm sure as hell saying (I came yesterday, I was there), and all the locals of the Tower, including all the surrounding villages, in all the polling stations. But that says enough about him, just like he is, just like Miroljub Labus who left a few days ago, imagine, with 17 bodyguards and five official cars. There is nothing better than Bogoljub Karic with all his brothers and boulument than one bus and washed only 600m euros in national money and capital. I'm going to end up with the way I see that investment fund going to work. Bogoljub Karic, who was short on folk torture, whose daughter and family members sold more CDs than Zdravko Colic, Bitlsi, Rollingstons together, whose wife earned 18m euros or 20m euros last year, will certainly not invest in your fund. I therefore warn citizens who may be willing to do so that they are better off waiting for the time when state finances will be managed by other people, when it will not be those who belong to G17 plus, who belong to the ruling structure, and now led by Vojislav Kostunica. Why do I tell you this? Because there is enough reason for you, citizens of Serbia, not to do this to the fact that the account of the Bank Rehabilitation Agency is not at the National Bank of Serbia, as you are promised, which is supposed to have central regulation when it comes to public finances, but rather the account of the Bank Rehabilitation Agency (which you voted for here), which is the government account, in a private bank, guess which.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19754	The People's Messenger Dusan Prorokovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Sulejman Spaho be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19755	Dear Chairman, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to speak of this law from a different perspective. I'm not going to talk about it the way it was discussed Thursday, and as of this morning, for the simple reason that this law is a waterworks in all countries, how the left parties are profiled, and how the right parties are profiled. In some countries around the government, the reform of the pension system has led to early parliamentary or presidential elections, depending on the system in the country. Also, this is a daily topic in all parliaments in Western Europe, because this is not just a political problem, a daily political problem, this is an ideological problem. There are two groups of parties in every country in the world, and these are the parties of the left and right, and the politics of both is very clear. The left parties are always in favour of increasing the number of these safeguard social measures, for larger procedures and greater contributions, as the left parties are led by a logic that social subsidies lead to social well-being. We also have a right-wing policy, it comes down to encouraging investment, to the real extent of intervention, and all of this then goes into social pension funds and various social benefits and contributions, because the logic of the right is that economic subsidies lead to social well-being. So two basic postulates, because everything happened in countries, the left went right, and the right went left, but these are two basic postulates. What happened in the European Union when such a system as we are trying to introduce changed the two largest left-wing governments, I mean France and Germany, just to compare economic and economic parameters, because the two largest continental industrial forces still determine trends across Europe, both economic and social. Jospen had the logic of starting to reduce the number of hours in the week's work. Today in France, you work 35 hours a week. Do you think French goods are more competitive anywhere, do you think they don't have an unemployment problem? No, the capital's moving. After a change in government, after last year's elections, it also moved there to cut these and reduce the number of social subsidies. Over the past eight years in old Europe, 15 members of the European Union have opened millions of jobs. By comparison, around 10 million new jobs were opened in the United States in that period, as investors could not cover so many social benefits and at the same time reinvest from their capital to new jobs. The growth in gross social product in the EU for the past year, under the great influence of these major social criteria, higher social benefits, amounts to 3.5%, and only thanks to Eastern Europe, i.e. these new EU members, where GDP growth is around 7%, in the so-called The old Europe is 1.5%. The peak of all is social well-being in Germany, which last year led to the closure of 100,000 jobs per month. Simply, these two major economies have failed to finance all the social benefits that have been guaranteed under the new laws by all pension, disability, health, and other insurance holders. This government is now trying with one law, which is nothing different than the Margaret Thatcher law in Great Britain, the Helmut Cola law in Germany, or the new French laws now in the Jacques Shirak period, to encourage investment, to create a climate of real budget interventions, real pension payments, and to try to manage more rationally what is called public income. For the PIO fund last year, the assembly approved two billion euros. Compared works, one job in Serbia today costs 5 to 7,000 euros, depending on what the job is. With infrastructure works needed, as jobs are being opened somewhere and in underdeveloped areas, it is 10,000 euros. With these two billion euros, Serbia could create 200,000 jobs and in the next 10 years it could address the issue of unemployment. Of course, it's an ideal picture. You can't do that. The funds must also be paid into the PIO funds. I think we need to spend our budget more rationally, structure a little differently. I don't want anyone to understand that I'm against pensioners, because anyway, this law will apply and transform over the next 10 years, but I just want to see something that has been established as a principle in Serbia throughout Europe. Explain the situation, say, that you have a graduate technology engineer who worked in Viskoza from Loznica full of work experience and a graduate tech engineer who worked as a full-time intern at NIS. They went through the same steps, from the reference officer to the intern, to some director. One today has a pension of 6,000 dinars, and the other has 30,000 dinars. How is that possible? Therefore, no principle was established which was established in other Western countries. The basis for pensions with the same knowledge, the same title, the same qualifications, is the same. Whoever wants extra insurance, he'll pay private pension funds and then collect those benefits when he retires. This is one reform law, which will show its effects since 2007. The proof that it is reformal and that we should expect effects from 2007 on the opening of new jobs is a World Bank report, is one text from the Slovenian business weekly "Finance", which speaks of Serbia as a new destination for Slovenian capital and in which Slovenian businessmen express concern that the migration of capital towards Serbia does not move. Of course, Serbia is neither Germany nor France. We can't do exactly what the governments of the right centre did when they came to power, because we have not only different political problems, which I don't want to talk about right now, but also social and economic problems. This is a state, I think, with the highest participation of pensioners in the total population. I'm aware that's why we have to make a deal with the parties on the left. I think we should accept certain amendments to the SPS and DS. There are also some illogicalities in the law, such as the fact that, for example, the benefits of a work internship are guaranteed only to the members of the MUP, the military, the BIA and the MIP. Some categories, such as miners, ballerinas, dactylographers, and others in the previous law, have been expelled. Therefore, these solutions should be returned, in order for this law to receive one unequivocal and strategic support and for the system to change over the next 10 years, as envisaged. Speaking of right center politics in this area, I must say that one of the basic principles of the right center is the principle of political correctness. I think it's also how politically correct we are to advocate connecting a job internship for more than 100,000 people who were not paid in 1993, 1994 and 1995, until 2000. I think it is politically correct for the government of the Republic of Serbia to compensate those people for what their parent companies have denied them, so that they can exercise their rights as well as everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19756	The word of the messenger of the people is Sulaiman Spaho; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Paj Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19757	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, during the weekend, I was invited from the local pensioners to their meeting, where there was a constructive discussion about this very law and we came to the conclusion that this law is not good for pensioners, because this law would lead to a death sentence regarding pensioners. The pensioners also asked me to ask MPs from the authorities not to vote for this law, because there are two reasons: one that is not good, and the other, if you vote it, those pensioners who are capable, even those who are in a wheelchair, will go out on the streets and protest for it. Discussing them, I came to the conclusion that the SPS still has the support of the pensioners, so they also asked them not to vote for this law. Voting for the socialist law would lose what little they have in parliament. At a time when more than three-thirds of our oldest citizens barely survive the month, with about 10,000 dinars of average pension, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministry, headed by Lalovic, is preparing a new pension fund reform, under the pretext that the IMF insists on reducing public spending. Personally, I get the impression that the shortest way through retirement is to reduce public spending, which makes no sense to me. The minister also promises that the new reform will not reduce pensions, and that is also not true. The draft law that provides for a new reform of the pension system is unacceptable for pensioners because of the introduction of a new way of harmonising pensions, abandons the harmonisation of pensions towards employee growth and introduces only the cost principle. This would mean a drastic deterioration and such a difficult material position as the pensioner. It also predicts that the harmonisation of pensions with the cost of living takes place only twice a year, which is also not good. This way of harmonising pensions would result in pensions being reduced by 30%, so that employees' earnings would only be around 40%, and that would be the death penalty for pensioners in advance. Since there is no death penalty by law, our dear pensioners would die on the streets without a court ruling. The draft law also stipulates that the minimum amount of pensions is 25% of the average employee earnings, i.e. that it cannot be less than 20% of this earnings, but if the average earnings in June of this year were 17,000 dinars, there is a surplus. There are other provisions in this law that are contrary to the Constitution, which is the case with the abolition of acquired pensioners' rights. However, these two examples above are the most significant, as they concern the continued survival of the millionth part of our society. Because of such a bad SRS bill, they will not vote for this law, and they will also not vote because this law would vote the pensioners' death sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19758	The word is by MP Paja Momcilov and then by Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19759	Dear People's MPs, we were witnessing that at the beginning of this session there was a solemn atmosphere, a congratulatory atmosphere, a lot of optimism was made in the exposés, both Minister Lalovic and Mr Dinkic. What falls into the eyes and is a very interesting thing is that those who need to defend the law against this congregation do not attend our sessions. It's nothing new, it's not unusual, and I've always said that they sort of demean the congregation. I have to admit, I realized that maybe it's partly true. There's a far more important and practical reason why they don't attend our sessions, which is because they don't know the matter they're supposed to be defending here. I'll try to document it, and I hope most of you understand what it's all about. Unfortunately, I must say, with this set of laws, this government is finally showing its true character. A well-organized and civilized society is known for its attitude towards the poor, towards the weak. Who are the endangered categories? You'll all agree that these are our pensioners, our children, the disabled and the disabled. This country is a great deal in the interests of disabled people. You had a threat to their demonstrations in front of the Limes Hall because of taxes that must be paid on means of transport, on cars, and with this set of laws, it also hits the standard and life prospects of our pensioners. We still have to hit the kids and then we have a complete picture of what our government is like. What's the problem with this set of laws? Simply speaking, this law was not written by our experts and by the people who were supposed to defend this law, but by strangers. A roundtable on pension system reform in Serbia was held in Belgrade's Hotel Hayat on November 12th, titled "To Pension Three Steps". One of the participants of the conference, Mr. Predrag Kovacevic, says – the law worked by a team of experts from the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank, "Bering Point", colleagues from Croatia. At the same meeting, one of the participants in the discussion, a professor at the Faculty of Economics, current mathematics, said – there are institutions in this country that are very serious about pension insurance issues, the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, the Faculty of Law in Belgrade and the Institute of Comparative Law. For the matter to be even more interesting (of course, all that I am saying can also document relevant papers) October of the month in Cavtat, Croatia, an interesting set is organized – Another international conference, says: pension funds, capital market and financial environment. One referendum was – a reform of Serbia's pension system. Who do you think the reference officer was? Is anyone from Serbia? No, she was a certain Mrs. Rosa Chiapa, who referred to her in 2003, and I have her entire exposure, and that's the essence of these legal proposals, just maimed, which is sad. So Mrs. Chiape, with her team, over two projects, put together what these here can't even defend, rather than drive out poor and weak officers to play their representatives here. That's what's true and what's to be said. Let's deal with the laws. We say this is a fixation of reform. Many have convinced us that it is reform laws, and we Serbian radicals often say that there is an opportunity for some of the reform laws to be given, but then they write so deliberately that they are no longer reform laws, but they are the opposite. Here, the reform is being reorganized by the first pillar of compulsory retirement insurance, according to European standards. The third pillar is introduced and the second pillar skips. We have heard that the motive is to reduce 14.3 from the pension budget, because the OSCE countries single out 8.4. Be careful, Serbia and the OSCE countries, it is a sign of equality and we need to single out equally. This set of laws has no reform force because of the very beginning. In order for the laws to be valid and valid, you must first have a clear strategy for the economic development of the country, then you must bring in the strategy of the social policy strategy, and then you can adopt legislation. Mr Krasic asked you nicely what our policy and these laws say about pensions, whether pensions are a social category or whether pensions are what the group that represents us according to world meetings and stories about our reform without us, that it is an economic category. We don't have that answer, and no one has made it clear to us here. If we want to say that the clear situation, that today's modern pension system must rest on those three pillars, that first and basic pillar is the pillar of solidarity, the separation of all of us for those who did it yesterday, because we expect that the next generations will do the same for us. We understand that these funds will not be enough in the future and we need the help of the second pillar. However, no one says there are differences between countries in the first pillar. You have a system where pensions are equal for all citizens, such as in England, Switzerland, the Netherlands, Ireland and Denmark. There are arny grates, where you have a situation where the pension level depends on the separation of personal incomes. This is where you keep your mouth shut. You have this second pillar, where you have private compulsory insurance, which we skip and you have a third pillar – voluntary private, which we introduce. The Chicago Nobel Prize winner in the sphere of economic sciences, Gary Baker, said – the mother of all reforms is a reform of the pension system based on capitalisation. It's clear to us. We radicals fully agree that that's the way it should be. We don't mind that. If a certain amount is allocated to each pensioner, in the second pillar mandatory, in the third pillar voluntary, so that the money goes to the market and trades and turns that money, the funds will come to one profit and that fund will be solidly filled if it is worked hard and available, it is not disputed. Modern pension policy, according to us from the Serbian Radical Party, should rest on admitting that pension is both a social and economic category and that one mild balance introduces the second and third pillars into the system. What do these laws bring? In the first pillar, they bring "reform paper" to raise the censorship of the year to 65 and 60 years. It is clear that this reduces the pensioner's total Corps at this point, it is not disputed. But it is clear, and that should be said immediately, that the length of life of our citizens is smaller than in developed countries of Europe, which have the maximum length of workload of 65 years for men and 60 years for women. The expected years of life at birth for a man in this country are 69 years. Mr. Lalovic probably responded to me and said – we found that in the pensioner group the average was higher. They're immeasurable categories. Mr. Lalovic has no elementary knowledge that the expected years of life cannot be measured with the expected years of one who survives, it is absolutely clear to everyone. I didn't even talk about that category, as much as pensioners live on average, it's another economic category. Let's see why this second pillar is not introduced, it's for me a question mark, when the country gradually introduces it into the environment, or why is a third pillar introduced when there is no economic justification? I say there is no economic justification for introducing that economic pillar. To look at a few figures, what is the situation in Serbia: 1.5 million pensioners, someone says 1.2 million, probably don't count military pensioners, unemployed hundreds of thousands, not to bid, not to raise a figure in the heavens, and not to be said to be ill-intentioned, and what is the average wage - 170 euros, what is the average pension - 138 euros. The pension is 70% of the average personal income in Serbia. One key data: 90% of pensioners in this country have less pensions than 180 euros. What's 180 euros, let's calculate, and 90% of our country's pensioners have less than that. Can you, with these reform measures, raise the price of years and introduce a harmonisation of pension increases with the cost of living and thus realistically reduce those pensions? Do you have the right to know how large the majority of our pensioners are? There's always talk here that it was a disaster before, and remember by 1990, we had a good retirement system. The system rested on the first pillar of solidarity, always had to have secured three pensions, to be solid, and he had until 1990. When the sanctions started and the war started, the system collapsed, and that's what to say. They say it's a lot of retirement to be 70% of personal income. Is it a lot, when we know what real numbers people get and what the cost of living and imposing on them is? It says 14.3% of gross social income goes to retirement and that's a lot. It doesn't go on pensions, it goes on living people, it doesn't go on a fictitious category, it's the people who worked for us, who have solidified for their predecessors. These are people who are tortured by sanctions and war. These are the people who live the shortest in the developed part of Europe and these are the people who are the sickest in this part of Europe. Now you're saying that they need more, that they should sacrifice themselves for future generations – ultimate cynicism. I think it should be a shame to anyone who raises their hand to laws like this at a time like this. There's one thing that's pretty funny about this set. These two laws are in charge, and what's in the back, we can agree that it's okay. Pension funds – these pension funds are not pension insurance. What does that mean? If you invest in a pension fund, then whoever works with your money can work it out, you can lose your money, that's reality, and that's what Miss Natasha told you with this American fund. Retirement insurance is a guaranteed premium. Who's gonna control the funds? The National Bank of Serbia will control. Where do you have that in the world? It exists in three African countries. The National Bank, which will issue securities of value, which will be the main material for the operation of funds, it also controls, is nowhere in the world to be found. It's one more Udrum and a conflict of interest, at least said, that we don't move on. Someone will say, "You are only criticizing the Radicals, and what would you do?" Mr. Lalovic says – let us from this social product to reduce pension leave and invest it in investments, invest in new jobs, and this will raise gross national income and make everyone better. "Don't take a donkey to green grass" until that happens. In this country, it's gonna be hard in a year or two. It's a long way here, if that's what you're looking at. I say, isn't it possible, as Zoran Popov of BK University says, to start the economy, to get these unemployed into production, so you'll get a gross national income, so everyone will get better. You'll say there's no investment. No, because we don't rob pensioners, is that what you're saying? You want me to tell you why there's no investment? It's not because there's corruption and lawlessness in this country. You have a privatisation you didn't do, which is a robbery. You who are now in power have claimed that the previous government has carried out such privatisation, and those of the previous authorities now claim for you and state the affairs that prove it. The main reason you don't get investment is that corruption and there's no security for foreign capital in this country. I ask: What about donations, what about credits? After all, a study on war damage has been done in your institutes. What about the war damage of 100 billion, which you can also insert and start investments? Therefore, Serbian citizens should know, this is what the government has shown its true face. This touched the bottom, as in this assembly, with all this ringing and circus atmosphere, we're also trying to touch the bottom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19760	I thank Mr. Momchilov. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19761	If I had my word, Mr. Angelkovic, I would ask you not to interrupt me, as you interrupted Mr. Pai Momchilov, by your bell you interrupted him, he thought that time had expired and therefore ended his exhibition.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19762	Mr. Sarovic, I was worried about you, you only have a few minutes left, and that's why I did it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19763	How much is it, exactly?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19764	12 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19765	I'd like you to refuse me this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19766	I was worried you wouldn't lose your ability to elaborate the law. I'll count you in on this 40 seconds extra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19767	Mr. Angelkovic, please cancel this time now.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19768	Don't worry, I'll count it on you, you've got 13 minutes, instead of 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19769	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've heard a lot here in the debate, especially from MPs from the ruling coalition, how practically epochal conditions will take on the positive effects of these laws that are now being passed. It is a shame that Serbian citizens are not able to read these laws themselves, because if they read them, they would be very disappointed because of what the ruling coalition is saying, there is practically nothing. We have heard from the minister a story about everything and everything, about Holland, some foreign states, about 1914, and any other information that has absolutely nothing to do with these laws and discussions. Of course, he missed to point out what the real effects of these laws would be. I will try, within the time that I have at my disposal, to say a few words about every law and to show you that what you can hear in the previous days from this pay phone by the ruling coalition absolutely does not stand. First, the Law on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia, based on the commitments of the Republic Fund for PIO, on outstanding pensions and monetary earnings. So it's about 1.5 outstanding pensions, or cash benefits. We see here already in Article 2 that although it is only 1.5 pensions, there will be a payment within a recent period, even though it is today 2005. Article 2 says the fee totalling 23.5 billion dinars will be provided by 20 January 2008. We've heard several times from Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, saying we have an extremely large surplus in our budget this year, that it's the first time since I don't know how many years we've had a surplus. Then, logically, the question arises as to why the surplus, if we already have extra funds, does not cover these expenditures, or these obligations that we have towards pensioners, if it is known that pensioners today are the most socially vulnerable category, that some of them, unfortunately, will not be welcomed in January 2008, for which you planned to reconcile obligations with them. If it is taken that the period in which these obligations will be partially covered for two and a half years means that for the payment of this 1.5 pension at the monthly level, believe it or not, 0.05% of that pension. It means that about the 20th part of the pension due to the pensioners will be paid every month, or they will arrive for payment every month. If we know what pensions are in Serbia today, that some pensioners receive two, three, or four thousand dinars, the twentieth part of it, it's 200-300 dinars. So these are the funds that are completely miserable. I could even say that it's offensive this way to take any points, cheap political points, because pensioners are promised that they'll get paid some big money and these pensions they owe them. In fact, we see that it's really minimal funds. The second thing, Article 8, says: "The Fund will be closer to setting the level of total claims per user of the right, as well as the way in which the claims made under the provisions of this law are paid." I wonder why the Fund would be closer to determining the level of total claims per beneficiary of the rights? This is something that should definitely be governed by law. I don't know if there may have been a bad expression again and whether the legislator's intention was to say something else, but what's said here practically means that the Fund is authorized to determine for each potential beneficiary the specific conditions by which a way of determining the height of its claims will be determined. It's something that definitely can't survive and shouldn't survive in legal traffic. It is normal that all rules should and must apply to all right-holders, i.e. for all potential right-holders, the same methodology must be established by which the amount of their claims will be determined. Let's take a look at a little bit of the law that's supposed to pay the farmers 20.5 pensions they owe them. We will see that the situation here is even worse and that the conditions by which it will be done are incomparably worse than for these ordinary pensioners, so to speak. Of course, we know that agricultural pensions are extremely small. This is seen by the fund needed, 20 billion dinars, much lower by 20.5 pensions from farmers, than by 1.5 pensions from ordinary pensioners. It's a fact that says how miserable these pensions are; they are, of course, measured by hundreds of dinars, unfortunately. But there is a period in which they will be paid... Or, the maturity period of these bonds, I misrepresented myself, of course, to the farmers, nothing will be paid. They'll get these bonds, and what about those bonds they'll be able to do, I'll tell you later. The state says the total amount of outstanding liabilities will be charged at an interest rate of 8.5% on an annual basis for the period from 20 February 2006 to 20 February 2010. I ask the departments in charge – if today in September 2005, if 20 pensions are due, so the debts are already two years old, why will interest be calculated only since 20 February 2006? What about the means that should have been handed over to these pensioners long ago? You hold the funds for them for 2.5 years without interest, because the interest begins not until next year. Furthermore, when it is already two and a half years late with the billing of interest, is it possible that the state had predicted, and of course not, but that was the basic thing to do, that even those taxes that farmers owed to the state over the previous 2.5 years should not be taxed? So, the same archeological work is done for those resources that farmers owe to the state and the one that the state owes to farmers. This way we have double arches. One more thing, which is extremely controversial, why only 8.5% interest? So, if the state charges those who owe it, so to the agricultural producers, at the legal tight interest rate, which is much higher than 8.5%, where is the insolence and insolence that anyone comes here and says, for the first two and a half years we won't be counting any interest, and then we'll give you 8.5%. So, I don't think this relationship with agriculture and the village is good. Let's move on, he says - the Republic will issue bonds. Bonds are named, portable and paid off in dinars. He's a key, I'd say, member 11. It is said: "Homely legal person and entrepreneur, domestic natural person and persons on temporary work abroad, as well as foreign natural and legal person, can freely buy and sell bonds on the financial market." First of all, I don't know why they're here, because this is legally completely illiterate, isolated individuals and persons on temporary work abroad, if it's already said that both domestic and foreign natural and legal persons have the ability to trade these bonds. I don't know why this category is special here. The most important thing is, and here is Article 9 – the owner of the bond can pay the value added tax, excise taxes, property tax, citizen income tax and corporate income tax. When these two members are connected, therefore, free trade, the fact that farmers will not be able to get money on the basis of these bonds, but that they will only be able to sell them on the financial market, for example by paying corporate tax; the minister should come out here with statistics as much as farmers you owe twenty-and-a-half pensions, as many are corporate owners. I don't think they're going to be able to use funds to pay for some black excise, value added tax and anything else. The only thing they will be able to do with these funds is sell on the financial market those bonds, sell them to the Deltas, to those who buy businesses every day in Serbia. They will not sell at the new purchase value that is marked by these bonds, but by far less. So this is how you robbed them by not paying their pensions. The new robbery is that no interest is being charged, and the third and biggest robbery is yet to follow, so that the 20 billion dinar funds will be bought for much less money and then the companies in Serbia will be bought with it. I'd just like to say a few more words about the bill on the payment of contributions to PIO for certain categories of insurance. So it is said at the beginning that the right to pay contributions, which is this famous connection we have heard a lot about, says Article 2 – the right to pay contributions has a person who, from 1 January 1991 to 31 December 2000, was in a working relationship with the company, the financial organisation, the agricultural society, and which was declared to be insurance during that period. The right to payment under the law has a person who was in a working relationship with an employer who had been initiated bankruptcy or liquidation during that period. First of all, the law says that law has a face, and you will see very clearly from the next members that this right does not exist, but that only possibly, under certain conditions, can it be realized. Why until December 31st, 2003? What about those whose contributions weren't paid in 2004, and we know there's a lot of them. Furthermore, he says, a request for payment of contributions is submitted by the employer, if workers are still in working relationship with the employer. What if he can't handle it? There are no criminal provisions, and that's very interesting, because I'd be very happy in all the laws you're making, you're prescribing criminal provisions and, I'd say, dragon penalties for all those who don't commit. Given that the enforcement of this obligation by the employer would lead to an increase in the obligation of the state to its employees, you simply encouraged them by the fact that there are no criminal provisions in place practically not to do so. (President: Time. I'm finishing up, very quickly. Furthermore, Article 7 states that the Fund is obliged, if the conditions laid down in this law are met, to adopt a solution laying down the right to payment of contributions under this law, no later than 12 months after the date of application. So, the deadline for submitting demands is three months, and if we are aware that many citizens, and especially where companies went into bankruptcy or liquidation, will not be able to reach all the necessary documents to file requests, then, if the deadline of three months passes, they will not be able to achieve the right under this law, and then be given to the fund for an additional 12 months to reach a solution. A similar situation is repeated here, and yet there are no criminal provisions, what happens if the fund doesn't come up with a solution after two years? Nothing. The right to set up an insurance standing is therefore only reached at the time when funds from the Republic's budget are transferred to the Fund, within the framework of the planned funds for transfers to compulsory social insurance organisations and in a way that does not jeopardise the liquid potential of the budget. So, when someone acquires this first right, the right to pay, only then, in accordance with the possibilities of the budget, will eventually gain the right to pay these contributions. Furthermore, only after the payment of the contribution, i.e. after the transfer of the funds referred to in Article 3, the Fund shall make a decision on the establishment of the insurance standings. Two, three or five years can pass here, and only from that moment on, will someone be able to exercise the right to retire, or to increase his pension if he has gained a pension but has been enrolled in a smaller number of years of employment, which he tells us about – the right to retire is obtained on the earliest day of payment of contributions under this law. I'll be done in a few seconds. The best indicator of your laws... I don't have time to read this from all the laws, everyone says the same thing, says – an estimate of the amount of funding needed to enforce the law. So this is from the reasoning provided by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This is the clearest way to see what the effects of these laws on the lives of Serbian citizens will be, and there will be no, or will certainly not be, positive. The only effect is making that false promise. He says in an explanation – there is no need for additional funding to implement this law. Can anyone say - we'll pay you an internship or we'll do this or we'll do that, and say no financial means are needed for that. In this way, the government only assumes some obligations that may come to pass, perhaps not in two or three years. It is further said – there will also be no increase in the necessary funds on the disbursement side, i.e. funds for pension payments remain at the planned level. So, our dear pensioners, in order not to overthink whether you're going to have any of this and if you're going to get some more, the government said in advance in an explanation that, I'm going to repeat, the funds to pay off pensions remain at the planned level. It is estimated that it is mainly about connecting internships for existing pensioners, i.e. insurance companies, who will only gain pension rights in the future. A relatively small inflow of new pension users, whose number cannot be correctly quantified, is certainly not expected to have a significant increase in expenditure based on the inflow of pensioners from this category. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19770	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, i.e. representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Petrovich. The word is from the president of the DS parliamentary group, MP Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19771	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, much has been said in the past day and today about the legal proposals and what the pension system should look like after the adoption of these laws. What I said on Friday when we were here I must repeat: none of the two ministers, Mr Lalovic, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, is in charge of this area, nor is Mr Dinkic, Minister of Finance here today. This is bad, it shows the relationship between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministers, above all, towards the citizens of Serbia, and then to the MPs representing these citizens in this parliament. A set of these laws will have an important impact on how 1,300,000 people who receive pensions will live, and, for God's sake, it affects more or less, indirectly or directly, on each of us, on every citizen of Serbia, because I don't know if there's any law and whether there's a regulation that is more relevant to the everyday life of every resident in this country. It goes to the ministers and the government of the Republic of Serbia, and of course, the Serbian citizens will show that when the time comes, I hope that this time will not be far ahead of us, it will be new elections. The government and the ministers who represented it have tried to set up for the National Assembly and citizens of Serbia and to defend one thesis that if there is no change to the Law on PIO, if the system does not change as the Government proposes, it significantly endangers the PIO system or that sooner or later (Minister Lalovic said something), so for a time, the state and citizens will come in such a hurry that pensions can no longer be paid. Minister Dinkic explained this by impossible large transfers from the budget to the PIO Fund, this year 100 billion dinars will be transferred from budget to the PIO Fund to support pension payments by the state. According to the finance minister, the state of Serbia and taxpayers cannot bear such a burden anymore. The thesis is defended by the government, the MPs are defending the parliamentary majority, and they did not defend that thesis. Before I say why, in my opinion, this thesis is not sustainable and I give some facts in favour of my claim, I would like to say once again why the deeply unfair and inhumane bill here is before us, and I am talking about the law on amendments and additions to the Law on PIO. Two important topics, two important facts: one increase in retirement age, the age limit is now 63 years, and according to the bill it should be 65 years; another important fact and subject is the method of indexation. Simply put, the way in which in the future, if this law passes, will harmonize the amount of pensions in the time that lies ahead. All of us in Serbia are in trouble to live hard and Serbian citizens live hard. In this country there are millions of people without a job, in this country the average life span is 69 years and in this country, in our Serbia the largest number of citizens are engaged in physical affairs and we are not at the opportunity that, as citizens living in developed Western countries, in developed Western economies, two-thirds of people are engaged in service activities and not exposed to hard physical efforts during their working days. It is therefore unfair for Serbia to move the retirement age from 63 to 65 years, because if this happens, the average retirement time in this country will be four or five years. It would be wonderful if the average life span in Serbia was 75, 78 or 79 years, but it wasn't. That's why there's a big difference when someone retires to France or Belgium at 65 years old, and on average they can use that pension for almost 15 years, unlike Serbia, where when they retire at 65 they'll use that pension for four or five years. In an environment, closer and further, no one, almost anyone, except Albania, has come to make a political decision to retire citizens at 65 years of age. They have not done so in countries far richer than Serbia. In Slovenia, the retirement limit is 62 years. In the Czech Republic and Hungary, where you also live much better than in Serbia, the border is 61 or 62 years old. As I said, apart from Albania, there is almost no country of transition, so no country in the former communist system, which has prescribed 65 years for its citizens as a time-limit for retirement. This is proof that it is not necessary and that it is not exactly such a dictatorship of international financial institutions to establish the retirement limit for 65 years. I guess the Hungarians, both the Czechs and the Slovenians, and the Estonians and the Latvians had agreements and negotiations with the same IMF and with this same World Bank. How did they, or their governments negotiating, take no obligation for their citizens to raise the retirement line? What does that mean to you? It means that the government of the Republic of Serbia is worse than the governments of Estonia, Hungary and the Czech Republic, when they held negotiations on this important part of social life and an important part of public life, which is the establishment of a pension system. Unpreparedness or rather insufficient preparation and failure in 2004, which is the fault of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, have led to today's citizens of Serbia having a hard time discussing the Serbian Parliament's pension limit being raised from 63 to 65. Another big topic is pension coordination, indexation. Now pensions are coordinated by half of the impact on pension increases coming from average earnings and an increase in the level of average earnings, and this other half of how much the cost of life increases, so when you find some average value, then four times a year the pension level is adjusted. This model allows citizens of Serbia who are receiving pensions to monitor, to the extent possible, the increase in inflation and the cost of life, and to make it fair as possible, because as far as our economy and our society are concerned, that at least one part of that improvement is felt by pensioners. What's going on under the bill of this law? Gradually, year by year, the share of income increases in pension increases will be reduced. So in 2009, only a rise in the cost of living will be the measure of things; simply put, as much as inflation increases, pensions will also increase. From that moment on, it is no longer important for pensioners: whether the economy is progressing, whether the average earnings are increasing, whether the gross social product is increasing. For pensioners, it will not matter whether the average gross social product per capita is 2,000 euros or 20,000 euros. Their pensions will be the same. Realistically, as much as they can buy that moment, they'll be able to buy for one pension for eternity. That's inhumane. It's inhumane to kill people's hopes, it's inhumane to close the perspective of life to anyone, especially people who are in the oldest of their lives. So 25% of the population over 65 is below the poverty line in Serbia. The average pension today is 10,000 dinars. Two-thirds of pensioners receive less than 10,000 dinars. Now the government of the Republic of Serbia will seal it. Where are you? There you are. So, no hope, no help, no chance of any improvement, no matter what's going on in this country. Now a little bit on this other side – is the government's budget expenditure and transfer to the PIO Fund so large that it will collapse the pension system, so indirectly, unless it is reduced, collapse the budget, the country's fiscal capacity, and thus the power of the entire state? The truth is, with budget rebalance, this transfer from the budget to the PIO Fund has increased from 85 billion dinars to 100 billion dinars, and this transfer refers to both the PIO Fund and the Farmers' Fund. Both funds are unable to make contributions to pension insurance payments to pensioners and are all touched by the budget. Minister Dinkic said here that pensions amount to 13.8% of total spending, so pensions account for 13.8% of total consumption. That's not true because pensions make up 12% of total consumption. This is not the information you can find in the press or data provided by economists who may not be prone to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this is the information contained in the official IMF document. Pension expenditure accounts for 12% of Serbia's gross social product. That's true. The percentage of 12% is lower than in OECD countries, so in developed world economies. This percentage is slightly higher than in transition countries. That's true. Ladies and gentlemen of honourable fellow Members, the assessment of gross social product in Serbia is not correct and is not realistic. In Serbia, unfortunately, the grey economy is still high. When we say that what is official, and pensions are official, official data, no one receives a pension on black, so when we say that 12% of pension expenditure is in gross social product, it's not true, because that percentage is just as low as the grey economy has a share in the total social product. Let's look at this thing from both sides and from the other angle. The contribution to pension insurance is 22% in Serbia. In developed economies, therefore in OECD countries, the contribution to the pension fund is two percentage points higher and is on average 24%. In transition countries, these are countries with which we compare: Romania, Bulgaria and some that were more fortunate, such as Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, the percentage allocated for pension insurance contributions is as high as six percentage points higher than in Serbia and is an average of 28%. Let's see if we're talking about the real thing when we say that the budget transfer is 100 billion dinars, but with us, the percentage of pension insurance contributions is the smallest in Europe. If we had increased the contribution rate for pension insurance, it would not have been necessary to allocate 100 billion dinars from the budget in 2005, but significantly less money, just as much money as 22% in Serbia and 28% on average in transition countries. That we're still dealing with these economic and technical, accounting facts. In Serbia alone, the deficit is also included in the fact that the state has determined that certain categories of employees have an unfavourable job experience. The military, the police, anyone who has an underprivileged job experience everywhere in the world gets that benefit from the budget, not the pension fund. Well, it's the state that says it needs cops, that it needs soldiers, pilots, firefighters, and that all these people should work and have a working century shorter than the regular working age and that the state wants to pay a certain amount of money for it. Ladies and gentlemen, when it is added to the way pensioners' health care is financed in the world and compared with the way pensioners' health care is paid in Serbia from the Pension Insurance Fund, then we get the idea that the deficit in the pension fund, which is also presented here as a reason for tightening the regime towards pensioners, is not realistic and that the state of Serbia had no immediate need, no need to enter into this process that will lead to major reductions in pensioners' rights. Then what's the reason? Why are we discussing today and Friday a law that needs to change the pension and disability insurance system? Unfortunately, the government of the Republic of Serbia is incompetent. The IMF didn't say: either you will cut pensions or a three-year contract will be terminated that is due to bring a write-off of about 700 million dollars to this country. That's not true. The IMF said, when Labus and Dinkic were in Washington – gentlemen, why didn't you meet the commitments you made as a government and as a state in 2004; why didn't you gentlemen do anything to restructure public enterprises, and you promised to fix the situation in telecommunications; why didn't 80 major systems in Serbia progress in restructuring in 2004? At that moment, the revision of the pension and disability insurance system came to the IMF's agenda. At that point, NIS became interesting, and privatisation of two refineries. In this way, it became the elements of the government of Serbia's agreement with the IMF and thus became the obligations of the Serbian state for the past six months, in this last revision of the agreement with the IMF. So, to conclude, the Government of the Republic of Serbia was unable to protect the interests of Serbian citizens, as they were able to make the governments of Slovenia, Estonia, Latvia, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and all other countries where the age limit is not 65 years, but smaller, and where pensions do not line up as provided for by this bill, where the pension insurance system does not shut down all life prospects for pensioners. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia has made a political decision that the burden of transition, in its own strength, is transferred to a million and 300,000 people who receive pensions in this country, to the category of Serbian citizens who are no longer able to make up for their incomes through the gray economy or any other extraordinary way; these are pensions that they receive; to the category of people who spend much more on their own treatment, rather than people who are younger than them, because it is the natural state of things; in the population category, which I think is the most important, for which the government, Minister Dinkic, Vice President Labus and President Kostunica, estimated that they will not come to Germany's street several hundred thousand people to protest, because they are old and powerless. As a result, a weak government struck the weakest part of its nation, trying to compensate and correct the incompetence and bad consequences of its rule. I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on your conscience and not to allow millions and 300,000 of the most infirm people in Serbia to be the victims of an incompetent government and to take on the greatest burden of transition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19772	Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents want a word? No, I don't. I am concluding a principled search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, a draft law on voluntary pension funds and pension plans, a bill on the payment of pension and disability insurance contributions for certain categories of insurance workers, a draft law on public debt of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of the commitments made by the Republic of the Pension and Disabilities Fund of employees made on the basis of outstanding pensions and new benefits, a proposal for a Law on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of the commitment of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Farmers made on the basis of outstanding pensions and cash compensations. Therefore, we will move to a joint principled search on the Code of Criminal Code Proposal, the Bill on Minority Crimes and Criminal Protection of Jurisdictionary Persons, the Bill on Criminal Penal Code, the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Participants in Criminal Procedure, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code on Criminal Procedure. So, after a one-hour break, we're going to start this united debate and, due to the importance of all these laws, we're going to be working today until the principle debate on these laws is over. The break is up to 13.50 hours. [[After break – 14.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, unanimously of the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principled search on drafts of the agenda under points 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in the joint principled search for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour three minutes 36 seconds, the Democratic Party - Boris Tadic – 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus – 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes 24 seconds, New Serbia and independent MPs 9 plus 9 – 21 minutes 36 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, four SPP MPs, SDP deputies and two independent MPs, per five minutes, on the basis of Article 93. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. At the same time, I am informing you of authorised representatives in front of the parliamentary groups. For the SRS parliamentary group, MP Petar Jojic, DSS MP Djordje Mamula, DS MP Slobodan Pajovic and G17 plus MP Marko Krstin. We move to a joint principled search of the 6-10th item of the agenda: – Proposed by the CRIME LAW, PROPOSAL OF THE CRIME PARTS OF THE CRIME, THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE SANCTION, THE PROTECTION OF THE ACCIDENT AND THE EXCIPITION OF THE CRIME PROGRAMME DOCUMENT Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19774	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a set of law enforcement before us. I have a special pleasure, and I suppose you, too, that I can talk about something that this country has not been 200 years old. First time we get a criminal code. We're getting a code that should contain all the essential provisions on essential crimes, so that it doesn't happen, like so far, that most of the crimes are out of the criminal code. We no longer have a general and special part, but a single criminal code that contains all the essential crimes and all the newspapers that have appeared. This law, like other laws, stood a little longer in the congregation procedure, which in one way was bad, but on the other hand, proved to be good. In the meantime, we have signed several declarations and international conventions, accepted certain obligations, and this has given us the opportunity to install new crimes in these laws, primarily, something that has never existed with us so far, and in such a way that we can really imitate all the necessary standards of modern Europe. This code has passed all checks, including those Europes, and a very positive opinion has been given. I must say to everyone that you are also responsible, because a large number of parliamentary groups have given really correct amendments and the government has adopted the largest number of these amendments, and in that sense I really thank the MPs. This law not only represents the whole, but brings in a series of newspapers that have never existed before. They caused major problems in this society, starting with fighting organised crime and fighting corruption. Newspapers are being looked at in a series of cases. Now we're introducing a category that didn't exist. long-term prison from 30 to 40 years. There used to be 20 or 40 years, and that caused problems in practice where you have perpetrators who don't have the same situation, and you have only one option, or 40 or 20 years. The courts were running towards an easier option, so they said for 20 years, and now they have been given the opportunity to build a graduation between them and to give the court 30, 35 and 40 years. So there won't be any problems in practice in that part. A new way of calculating fines has been introduced, which so far has not existed in our legislation. Some new measures have been introduced, such as community service. At the same time, this law is characterized and in line with the new law on juvenile delinquency and we are now getting a single continent where minors are given the importance they should have, because the general finding is that juvenile delinquency in Europe is growing. In this situation, it was not enough that we had, but had to settle a more modern law, assessed by the United Nations and by Europe, where we tried to meet the basic conditions, what we had to do to achieve success in the fight against juvenile delinquency, and that this was not only realized by some penalties of deprivement of freedom and the like. On the other hand, if it comes to it, to ensure that these minors come out tomorrow as people capable of resociating and joining society, not to come out as good criminals as they are now. I'm also talking about the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, as the third one that had to fit into it; you can see that new measures are emerging, new conditions, new authorities, and, most importantly, people who are going to deal with this kind of crime will have to have very good professional references to do this job. We have a series of newspapers that must be interesting for this society. It's about trade, which is now detailed and well regulated; it's about money laundering, corruption stuff; it's about newspapers that apply, for example. on payment cards that are increasingly trading checks. We get the first part of command responsibility that is now systematized in two parts, so there will be no further dilemma of what can be judged and what cannot be judged. It is very important for us that certain acts are clearly precise and I must say that when the law on criminal proceedings is settled, which is at the stage of production and I expect in two months that it will be in the Assembly, then we will get full legislative matter in the criminal justice area, which is characterized by the standards of Europe and the needs of this country on that road of joining that orderly part of Europe. I think it has to do with the fact that the law stood, and the parties really put a lot of work into it, about 400 amendments were made, and more than 50% of us adopted, because they proved to be good, they fit into the system, and again it gave us the possibility that all new things related to the commitments that we have made under the declarations of both the European Union and the United Nations would be incorporated into these laws. We get definitely modern law. One small change is related to something that is not a matter of criminal law but of procedural matter. It's an amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, because we had to add this paper to change the status of state security to an independent agency, today BIA, by not changing anything in the system of the Criminal Procedure Act. Only this fifth law isn't about these laws, but I think we need to do it as quickly as possible, so we can achieve a smooth and valid state protection, given the environment we're in. I hope another new, valid argument will be given in the discussion. The government is ready to accept everything that's good, because what we did was good, or we've installed in the existing legal text, so, thanks to you for your cooperation, I want to inform you that due to the health situation, I may not be able to stay in session until the end, so I would like to thank you in advance for your understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19775	Thank you, Mr Stojkovic. Have all the parliamentary groups submitted their applications or will any other parliamentary group file a word application? Mr. Krstin, will you file for word, so we know technically? Yeah. ( b) Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or authorized representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is from MP George Mamula, authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19776	The proposal for a criminal code that the government of Mr Kostunica sent to this assembly for discussion and declaration is a modern, modern criminal code, in line with the achievements of the modern science of criminal law. According to its content, this is an open society code, in which the authority of the state is based on the freedom of citizens. This is one of the most serious changes in Serbia's recent history, i.e. Yugoslav space. This is really the law of change. Also, this is a law that contains provisions that represent the final round of desoving the criminal law, which, truth be told, began in 1951, by the Criminal Law of the FNRJ, when a decision was made to still take over Western law models and Western criminal law theories. Until then, our criminal legislation and legislation in general had been quite solicited, and this in criminal law felt multiple, with devastating consequences. During that period until 1951, the United Nations issued a General Declaration of Human Rights in 1948 and it was a key document on which all later criminal laws in the world were based. The General Declaration of Human Rights in 1948 was not voted by a Yugoslav delegation, as it suggested entering the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948 and the right to form concentration camps. As it was not accepted, it did not enter the procedure, but the camps at the time worked very much, so it should be seen as an attempt to form to strengthen the content, because it went from the form to protecting the right, even when it comes to concentration camps. Of course, there were no sanctions of the Security Council on the existence of camps, since there was little known circumstances that in 1949 Broz signed a protocol under which Yugoslavia became an American interest area, so that protection for camps was fully secured. The next change since 1951 was 1959, when new influences are still felt by the release of Soviet influences, which is the change of the crime of enemy propaganda, when a syntagma was introduced that it could be held accountable because of the malicious and untrue display of opportunities in the country. It was only done because of one man, renowned dissident Milovan Gilas, who only in 1988, with a change of government in Serbia, experienced a return to his passport, so in 1988. In addition, a criminal act of spreading false news was introduced, as a direct Soviet influence, as well as a measure of security of the ban on public indemnity was introduced retroactively, also because of it. Changes in the 1960s followed, and at that time there was ratification of the International Civil and Political Rights Pact, which had a very big impact on criminal law in the world. The pact was brought in 1971 and ratified in 1976. I think that all those who rely on rehabilitation on this pact in a criminal sense must bear in mind that the 1948 declaration was not adopted, so there is no obligation from that to 1976 that it protects the rights contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948. Furthermore, in 1990, there are key changes in criminal law. Then the crime of hostile propaganda, the crime of spying, the secret of state, and liberalisation change. But the influence of Soviet law still feels in some other formulations, like a relic of the past. The Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in 1992 brought an end to the death penalty for crimes of federal jurisdiction. After that, there is a reshaping of the crime of spreading false news, and so we come to 2001, when we have a new Serbian government, which has not made serious changes in criminal law. However, this government could not have been expected to do so. The 2001 government, through its representatives, Interior Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Dusan Mihajlovic and General Sreten Lukic, Chief of Public Security, placed venice on the graves of Aleksandar Rankovic and Slobodan Penezic at the New Cemetery, which was a very clear message for the days to come and which we saw in the state of emergency. No government before that government had ever laid garners on the graves of the two mentioned, but I don't think the government could have been expected to be more serious in criminal law and rooted in change. Regardless of the subsequent changes in organised crime and the amendments to the Law on Criminal Procedure and the definition of certain crimes, this could not have been expected. However, it should now be recalled that Dusan Mihajlovic, who in his memoirs "Vitici" and "Povnike nebula" said that the government had taken over the mafia from a previous period and that the government made it difficult for him to fight organised crime. It is even more interesting that no one from that government has come forward on those claims from his memoirs, nor have any of those ministers sitting here today as MPs, so there is a question of whether there will be any statements. I don't even think the family of the late Prime Minister has come to terms with it, so the question arises whether it's slander or whether it's true. As far as the 2003 government is concerned, I think it was clear that they returned the 40s, 50s to criminal law enforcement. The "Sabelaška" government of Zoran Zivkovic has returned the confiscation of property as a fine, a total asset, as a 1945 solution, and has retroactively decided to apply a 40-year sentence. In addition, the minister of justice in the government, on behalf of the government, once demanded that the death penalty be repatriated retroactively, so that it was an unrecorded fall in our near history, in conservatism and in old-fashioned ideas. This criminal code is otherwise the second in Serbia's history. The first one was brought in in 1860, and this one, when adopted, will be second in line. It was called a code because it made an attempt to unify as many crimes as possible, so now in one codification, a large number of crimes will be in one place. In addition, it should be noted that a secondary criminal law will also be detained, as it has come from the assumption that it is impossible to unify all crimes into one law, but that, in order to protect certain areas of life, it would be necessary in those laws that regulate specific relationships in certain areas of life to keep crimes that particularly protect those areas, in order to make them more transparent and to better apply them and to better look at them. In terms of the changes that this is about, first of all, I think it's important to mention (and I'll use another 10 minutes to talk) to change the concept of a crime. The social danger as an integral part of the definition of crime is definitely deleted because it is more of a sociological definition and has no legal significance and is not a place in criminal law. I think it's one of the relics of Soviet law, which now goes into the past. Finally, we now have a modern definition of the crime, as defined in European criminal laws. Another key change, in my opinion, is that as a form of complicity, the organisation of a criminal association is abolished, as a special form of complicity, which is imports from the Soviet Union from 1947 and has remained quite unnecessary until our day. I think there's been democratic capacity in the past to change that, but apparently there wasn't enough will and interest. Therefore, with this change, it comes from the assumption that it can only be held responsible for a specific criminal offence when there is a crime, so that the organisation of a criminal association is foreseen in a specific part of the criminal law as a particular criminal offence, and not on top of that as a special form of complicity and an additionalggravating circumstance. In addition, I think that one of the key changes that contributes to the democratisation and liberalisation of society is that the crime of insult and slander, which has so far been prosecuted by official duty, because of the insult of state officials, is abolished, so that also state officials who are victims of slander and insults through the press will have to pursue private litigation, rather than seek the protection of the state's prosecutor. In addition, I think that a major step has been taken forward because journalists have received special protection, because now they can protect their source of information, so they don't answer, like so far, except when it comes to a criminal offence that can be committed for over five years, because it would be a non-response for not reporting serious crimes. So now journalists can protect their source of information. With regard to insults and slanders, it is no longer intended to punish prisons, but only fines, so that now practically the ethics of the journalistic profession remains one of the important dams in their operation. I'd like to point out, plus, there's been a new punishment. One of the penalties is now the withdrawal of driver's license and public service for the greater good. These have so far been unimaginable changes in our legislation. I think with these changes I've singled out as the most important thing in our law, it's the order of liberal European laws. Of course, not to forget, there has been a fundamental change in the definition of legal error, since so far it has been responsible for the ignorance of the law, it has been taken as an extenuating circumstance; now only a hidden delusion leads to responsibility, so that there is a complete change in legal error, the definition changes after more than 50 years. So these are some of the key changes that I find very important. It comes from the spirit of the law that only with swift and effective justice, which does not bypass anyone, can achieve protection of the basic values on which life rests in the human community, rather than the dragons' punishments. I'll discuss the other issues in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19777	Thank you, Mr. Mamula. Anyone else want a word? Here's a word from Mr Jojic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. After that, an authorised representative of the DS Slobodan Pajovic parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19778	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the adoption of a criminal code in each country is an extremely important event that attracts the attention of the professional and the general public and as such remains permanently recorded in the legal history of a nation. We're in front of an event like this right now. Although Serbia had its part of the legislative jurisdiction in the area of criminal law matter in the former SFRJ and in the SRJ, this will be the second Serbian criminal code since the 1860s. In favour of the adoption of a new Serbian criminal code, there are several reasons, both formal and essential. First of all, by adopting the Constitutional Charter and forming a state community, the need for Member States to organise criminal matters in a comprehensive manner. The current criminal legislation was divided between the federal state and the republic of the member states, so Serbia, by taking over the SRJ Criminal Law, has, as its law, received, along with the Criminal Law of Serbia, two criminal laws, which is a kind of anomaly that is not known in modern criminal law. Otherwise, a number of amendments and additions, as well as shared legislative competences in this area, violated the integrity and coherence of the criminal justice system. Despite the fact that partial changes have abolished the exceeded norms, as well as the new ones introduced, this has, however, met only somewhat with the demands and challenges facing modern criminal law today. It is known that the issue of criminalisation and decriminalisation is always one of the central issues of any reform of criminal law. And some of the institutes of general work, although far less subject to change, require certain improvements and alignment with the modern criminal law theory. The development of the science of criminal law and achievements in theory shows that some existing solutions are overcome and that they need to be changed. So far, the application of criminal law in court practice has shown that some issues need to be resolved in a different way on a legislative basis. As an additional reason for the codification of criminal law, also negative phenomena in the area of secondary criminal law should be mentioned. This legislation, as is known, characterizes the hypertrophy of incrimination, inconsistency, unquality standards, as well as their lack of knowledge by citizens. With regard to a large number of these crimes, there is a need to be properly entered into the criminal code. However, this does not mean the total abolition of secondary criminal law. Some crimes are not justified to enter the criminal code because they are either minor criminal acts that are effectively brought into custody and subject to frequent changes or are limited to a very small number of people in a particular area, or their blank character is so expressed that they are constantly bound by laws that regulate certain areas, so nothing would be obtained by transferring them into a criminal code. Our criminal legislation has so far been aligned with international acts. In recent times, our country has ratified a number of international agreements that result in compliance obligations. For example, the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, the UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime with the Protocol on the Prevention, Prevention and Penalty of Trade of Human Beings, and in particular women and children, and the Protocol against the Smuggling of Migrants by Land, Sea and Air, the European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, the International Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Storage and Use of Chemical Weapons, and Others. The proposal for a criminal code implements our international obligations under ratified international agreements, but the relevant provisions of these contracts are adapted to our legal system, criminal justice terminology, etc. This means that a more difficult but more adequate way of implementing international law standards is chosen. On the one hand, it has been achieved that, in all things, the assumed obligations are fulfilled, and on the other hand, standard criminal standards are respected, as well as to provide for solutions that meet the needs of our society and the legal system. The effective fight against crime depends on a number of factors, of which it is very important and good criminal legislation. Although the current criminal legislation has not lagged to this end that it has become an obstacle to more effective crime control, a new criminal code should also be expected positive results on this plan. While this is certainly not a crucial argument, it should be borne in mind that only Serbia has yet to pass its new criminal code from the countries created in the territory of the former SFRY. This argument is relatively natural, due to the fact that the adoption of new criminal laws of secessionist republics was not only conditioned by meeting the needs, but also by distancing the former Yugoslav legal system and confirming its newfound statehood. In view of the threatened penalties, in general, it could not be argued that they are more repressive and neither weaker than existing legislation, but that only crimes of gravity are largely differentiated. Also, the prescribed criminal ranges remained broad enough, which gives a decisive role in the conduct of criminal policy in court practice. In the case of a legal description of certain criminal offences, as well as the regulation of a general crime institute, clearer solutions were sought to enable judicial practice to be applied uninterrupted by criminal law. What are the characteristics of this criminal code proposal? The criminal code fully regulates criminal matters, except for some criminal acts that remain within the framework of the criminal provisions of certain laws governing certain other areas. It is criminal offences which are either inextricably related to the matter which these laws regulate, or which are minor criminal offences, or which are subject to frequent amendments, and therefore it is not justified to enter them into the criminal code. When writing a criminal code, it is very important to choose which criminal-political, even wider, legal-philosophy approach will be chosen as the starting point. With regard to legal and legal and technical approaches, a clear view should be given. In the case of a criminal-political approach, it is important to find the right measure between the necessary and important repression and what is an excessive incursion in the sphere of individuals, as well as for society as a whole, has negative consequences. The safeguarded and guaranteed function of criminal law should be brought into mutual harmony or, in other words, the unitarian approach should be limited to the principle of justice and proportionality. Excessive use of criminal repression can indicate that society faces some of the following problems: firstly, either it is a weak and poorly organised society in a state that does not have other forms of legal reaction and social control, and therefore it is mainly based on criminal law. Secondly, either society and state are shaken by political, economic and social conflicts, or the situation of crime is such that they question the normal functioning of society. Third, it could point to a repressive and totalitarian state. As for the legislative technique to be used, it is necessary to avoid both the case-law and the excessive generalisation, as well as the procedure to be respected. Given the greater number of criminal offences and their forms, it can be concluded that the boundaries of criminal protection are laid down quite wide by the proposal for criminal law. In addition to being widely accepted in theory, the notion that criminal law was first and foremost ultimated by ultim, i.e. The last asset, modern criminal law, is in constant expansion. Although it was noted that certain problems needed to be resolved by other means and by other means, the number of new incriminations introduced significantly exceeded the number of those that were removed as anachrons. It's a constant spread of borders...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19779	Mr. Jojic, I'm sorry, are you using the other part? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19780	... the criminal protections imposed by new forms of crime, commitments made under international agreements, as well as the lack or lack of other means which are better than criminal law can combat some socially dangerous behaviour, poses a risk that criminal law is even more burdened by the limited capacity of the judiciary and is even less effective. Although the draft Code of Criminal Code took into account that there was no exaggeration in the spread of criminal protection (which has a number of other negative consequences), however, the desire to protect certain goods was dominant, so that it might be against the fact that the proposal was not more bold in terms of decriminalisation and a more liberal approach in creating the borders of criminal protection. However, the state of crime, as well as general opportunities in Serbia, represented a real obstacle to such an approach. The criminal code proposal sought to find the right measure in the protection of personal, individual goods and general goods. It is known that excessive criminal protection of general goods can even endanger the fundamental rights of man. On the other hand, no individualistic approach is justified in creating criminal protection. Although fundamentally good people are protected in the first place, criminal protection is also necessary for those general goods that are in the function of achieving these basic goods (so state, economy, judiciary and others). A parallel-law method has also been used when drawing up the Code of Criminal Procedure. Most of the criminal laws of European countries have also been taken into account. The solutions from foreign legislation are not uncritically adopted, but are adapted to the needs, opportunities and realities of Serbia. Compared with solutions in foreign legislation, in some cases, it led to the conclusion that better solutions are from our right, and that they should therefore be maintained. Otherwise, one of the characteristics of the Criminal Code proposal is that it contains those solutions from our current criminal law that have proved to be good, although some of them may have been even better. They have not been changed due to the short time in which this legal project was to be drawn up, as well as the attitudes of court practice that reluctantly looks at the changes in those solutions that did not in practice create problems. One of the characteristics of the Criminal Code proposal are new solutions to criminal sanctions. In general, new criminal sanctions have been imposed, and in particular penalties for certain criminal offences have been prescribed in a different way, i.e. a clearer differentiation of certain criminal offences according to their weight has been carried out. Compared to existing solutions, some crimes are prescribed a milder penalty (in some property crimes), while others are subject to stricter punishment (these are the most severe crimes, then the forms of those crimes that have elements of organised crime and others). In particular, it is noted that the need to influence court practice through legal solutions was taken into account by reducing the number of conditional sentences imposed and increasing the scope of the application of fines, and certain solutions are foreseen in this regard. Although it cannot be expected, for more reasons, that in Serbia the fine becomes a dominant sanction, as is the case in most European countries, including the low standard of living, the criminal code will certainly affect it more frequently than it has so far. The system of general part of the Criminal Code did not require any more serious changes. With regard to the system of special crime, it can be observed that it differs considerably from the existing one, not only because matter in a particular part of the criminal code was to be regulated in a comprehensive way, not as so far, based on shared legislative jurisdiction, but because of the different determination of group protective objects of certain criminal offences, as well as their order, given their importance, interrelationship and others. The proposal for the latest solutions in the general part of the proposed criminal code: in the very beginning, Chapter I of the Criminal Code contained basic provisions, which are few, but very important, since they establish the basic principles of criminal law, therefore, the principle of lawfulness, the principle of guilt, the principle of lawfulness of criminal repression, and the general purpose of criminal sanctions. These principles were sought to be formulated without the introduction of declarative findings, especially in one more concise and precise way; the principle of legality and the principle of guilt (zerom crimen sine) are formal and formulated as in most European criminal laws. Although the very formulation of the principle of legality could have been something different, it is good and expressed in a classical way. More important than how the provision of the principle of legality is formulated, the extent to which this principle has been implemented and respected through the Criminal Code itself. It is, above all, about that segment of the principle of legality which requires that norms and used expressions be as specific as possible, as precise as possible. Of course, there are also provisions in the Criminal Code that may be objected to, but in some cases it is very difficult to avoid indefinite and over-general terms, which may sometimes have the character of general clauses. With regard to the principle of legitimacy or, more specifically, to the extent that it relates to criminal repression, to the necessary extent and to the minimum of criminal law, the modern criminal laws that explicitly contain it are rare. It is mainly found in the criminal laws of former SFRY countries, and in this respect it is clear that it has contributed most to the similar provision contained by the KZ SFRY. In this regard, the impact of the Criminal Law of the SFRY can be assessed as positive, as the principle that it is today is, at least declared, adopted. In Chapter II, provisions on the validity of Serbia's criminal law are contained. Except for a few minor newspapers, e.g. the resolution of the disputed situation of the personal principle in the event of change in citizenship, compared to the existing solution, has also been improved by the system, since there is no reason to place the provisions on spatial and weather validity in different general parts. As regards earlier provisions on the validity of the Republic's criminal laws, existing solutions have been retained, taking into account that Member States' criminal law is now at stake. So that's the provision of Chapter II. In Chapter III, which refers to a criminal offence, general criminal matters are regulated (its general concept, the basis for exclusion of illegality, forms and the basis for the exclusion of guilt). Although some European criminal laws do not contain a provision on the general concept of criminal activity, the provision has been detained, but a significant difference has been made in comparison to the previous way. Consistently, an objective and subjective concept of the general concept of crime was implemented in terms of where consent exists, both in our theory and in foreign affairs. The present solution, which specifically singles out criminal responsibility, has been understood subjectively, therefore, that the basis for taking the crime is purely objective, which no one today represents. Furthermore, it has given up the introduction of social danger as a mandatory independent element of the concept, because in the modern European criminal law theory, no one is representing this understanding that was previously in socialist countries. Mr. Jojic, time, please. ) Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll allow me to conclude, surely this criminal code is one codification that means a lot to the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am obliged to tell you that in the bill of this code, eighty-seven percent of the provisions of the Code of Criminal Code, which were done by Serbian radicals, I was then a federal minister of justice. For a year and a half we worked directly on it, I worked on it personally with prominent experts, and then the Deputy Prime Minister was Tomislav Nikolic, who participated, Maja Gojkovic. I must say, there were distinguished professors, distinguished judges and respected prosecutors. I'm going to mention here a great expert in the area of criminal law, and that's professor. Zoran Stojanovic, a professor at the Faculty of Law. He was in the criminal code-making group. It's a proposal, the first codification I've done with those experts and members of the federal government of the SRJ. Since 430, as many members as there are, I'll tell you that this 2000 criminal code has been taken over from Serbian radicals by 384 members. Certainly, it should be said that the republican minister has complied with these provisions, which the SRS respects and values, because if there were no good proposal for a Serbian radical law, it would certainly not have been accepted by Minister Zoran Stojkovic himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19781	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. The profession is above politics. Great. Please, MP Slobodan Pajovic, authorised representative of the DS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19782	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that the proposal for a set of criminal laws, which we are discussing in a united debate, has sparked great interest in the wider and professional public. I can say that I see it from the presentation of my predecessors who, as I can say, have read a lot in much agreement with Professor Stojanovic's comment, who participated in the making up of this law, which gave a good comment in Branic, the Serbian Law Chamber magazine. There is general agreement that the adoption of this law was necessary, primarily that the legislative jurisdiction in this area was divided by Serbia having part of jurisdiction, and part of jurisdiction belonged to, at the federal level, the SFRY and the SRJ, so the situation was created that we had two criminal laws. It was necessary for this matter to be united in one criminal law. The Republic, the Member States of ex Yugoslavia, has all already passed their criminal laws. So, in itself, it was necessary to pass this law, and it is good that this law will be passed. Current criminal legislation has suffered major changes. They led to a breach of the unity of the system and the fact that we have situations that are very difficult to enforce criminal law. This is the situation we almost had, that the professional public, and the judges who apply the law in the situation for the most serious crimes are divided into whether or not criminal acts are being committed, for example. in the case of the Ibar highway, Stambolic's murder, he can sentence as the maximum prison sentence of 15 years or 40 years in prison. I would not like to express my opinion on this, I merely cited it as an example and the reason why it is necessary to pass a new law that will solve this matter in a comprehensive way, and I think that the Supreme Court on this issue should take its stand. We have also heard that the reasons for the adoption of this law and the alignment with the international acts ratified by our country are necessary. I think it's well done in most of this law, because the alignment and adaptation of our law has been done. Also, the necessity of passing laws is the need to reduce the number of criminal acts that are regulated so-called "the law". the secondary criminal legislation. It's done to a good extent in this law. For example, a crime of evasion has now been returned, and criminal acts have been deleted from the tax procedure and tax administration, which is clear to those who know and apply the law that it was quite well done and that it was necessary to do so. What you can see about this law, I don't know how much it looks like the law that radicals have passed, but it looks a lot like the Criminal Code that the Republic of Montenegro passed. Seems like the law's been passed a little bit in a hurry after all. It is that there was a great need for this law. Some things could have been solved more precisely and better. The speed is also mentioned by the fact that many amendments have been tabled on this law and that the government has accepted about 200 amendments, which have largely specified and corrected this law. Of course, it's commendable that it's done. The debate on details will show that some more amendments have to be accepted. What is a negative feature of this law, in my opinion, is that it is more repressive than the previous law. The aim of every democratic society, including ours, was to decriminalise and respect the penalties provided for by criminal law. Perhaps there was a need for stricter punishments for some crimes. The characteristics of this law are that the minimum penalties of many crimes have been increased, which shows a tendency for a stricter criminal policy, i.e. to impose stricter penalties in relation to some of the crimes in which there was also a large range of penalties before, and the general maximum has been increased. He's been in the bill for 20 years, but I see amendments have been passed, and it seems to me that it will be adopted that the maximum penalty will be 30 years. I'll talk about it later. However, the fact that the law is more repressive says that the state is unable to otherwise counter the rise of crime. I don't think criminal law can contribute to reducing crime in the country. I believe, from the point of view of general prevention, this law will not contribute much. However, the most important thing is that perpetrators are revealed and the law is applied to them, that judicial proceedings are more effective and that courts work more effectively. We can only see from these recent affairs at the Supreme Court and the D.A.'s office that there were appropriate interferences at that level. So we had good enough criminal law to punish the perpetrators. The issue of law enforcement and bringing justice to the perpetrators' crimes is much more significant than the repressive criminal law. The characteristics of this law are, it can be said, that the dominant place has been given to fines in relation to other penalties, especially the conditional conviction, which is certainly a good trend, but will be difficult to achieve. I'll talk about it later. Every good trend needs to be welcomed. However, it must be noted, in addition to the fact that, in itself, the adoption of this law was necessary, that this law represents a step forward in this area. For reasons I have already cited, and also because the law treats some new institutes, it processes the old institutes in a much better, more modern and modern way, accepting a new legal theory, and for the reason that a large number of amendments of the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group have been accepted, the parliamentary group will vote for this law. I'd like to analyse some of the institutions of general and special part of this criminal law. The definition of a criminal offence has been retained, but the concept of a crime has left out the Institute of Social Danger as an integral element of a criminal offence, which is good because it is a relic of communist criminal law, where the possibility was created to bend the principle of legality through a minor social danger and to get rid of some criminal acts. It has now brought into question the institute of minor social dangers, which has to some extent been replaced by a part of less importance, but this act can only be applied in cases of crimes up to three years, which is also good because it cannot be used against serious crimes. Also, in the area of complicity, it is good that the provisions on the organisation of criminal associations have been left out, because it is also a relic of the past, one unnecessary provision that could be resolved through incentive and co-execution, and there are adequate incriminations in a particular part of the criminal law that covers organised crime and belonging to organisations of that kind. As far as criminal sanctions are concerned, it can be said that a 40-year sentence has been detained, and under the bill, the maximum penalty is 20 years in prison. It was illogical to keep such a large range between the general maximum and the strictest penalty, and it was good that the amendments were accepted to be a maximum of 30 years, because why would someone who needed to get between 25 and 27 years in prison say 40 years. The question can be asked how and why there has been a 40-year sentence and why perhaps the most severe forms of serious crimes have not been considered a life sentence, because I don't think it would increase repressivity, but that the repressivity of the law increases other provisions. (President: Are you using another 10 minutes? Yes. A special significance is given to a fine. It is particularly good that a basic lack of fines has been removed, and it is concerned that it does not hit equally poor and rich, although it is kept in fixed amount of fines, but a fine is foreseen on days, allowing the range between income and expenditure of the perpetrators of the crime to be determined accordingly. This will certainly be difficult at first, given that this is difficult in our system to determine, but it will certainly create conditions for this, and such an effort is certainly good. New penalties are provided for: working in the public interest and withdrawing the driver's license. Working in the public interest is envisaged, but it is certain, knowing at least what practice is so far, that the execution of this sentence will be very difficult and I can say from personal experience that it will not apply, at least one long period. So she only exists to make the law better. The withdrawal of the driver's license is a special error and should not have been provided for as punishment. It is known that the law provides for a protective measure to prohibit the management of a motor vehicle. So, basically, there are penalties and safeguards that are identical. This is the first because of the accuracy of the law inaccessible, and it is unacceptable from the point of view of the purpose of punishment, because imagine that someone who committed the crime by using a motor vehicle gets three years incarceration, takes away his vehicle and gets another two years of seizure, after he endures three years of imprisonment, to take away his driver's license. What is the purpose of punishing him if he gets three years in prison, and what will affect the executioner’s repair, punishment, and not commit these crimes? It is logical that the withdrawal of the driver’s licence, i.e. the ban on driving a motor vehicle, is applied in the event that the perpetrator did not comply with the traffic rules and that a permanent solution should be maintained. In this sense, the Democratic Party has submitted an amendment, so we will discuss it further. In the area of measuring penalties, a good solution is that the provisions on extended crime have been provided, because this was the situation of an apparent and realistic strike, where courts supported the understanding of criminal law theory tried for extended crimes without the basis of the law. Now it's tax-determined and precise in which case it's an extended crime, and that's good. However, the bill does not provide for a situation where a new criminal offence covered by an extended criminal offence has been found and convicted. We have proposed an amendment, and the government has adopted, that in this case this crime is considered a special criminal offence, i.e. to enter into a particularly prolonged criminal offence, because it was possible to create a situation where this new crime was found to be a serious crime, but because the prolonged crime is considered a crime and because of the principle that criminal law cannot again be tried so that the perpetrator cannot be tried for this crime. Significant changes in terms of conditional convictions and these changes essentially eliminate the shortcomings that occurred in earlier practice, which is a situation where one of the perpetrators is given more conditional convictions, which essentially does not correspond to the purpose of parole as criminal sanctions, or that one person who committed a crime with imagination in the immediate past is then convicted. These are essentially good solutions because they have been extorted by the practice and poor work of courts that have not adequately applied earlier provisions. As far as the special part is concerned, I'll just look back at some of the crimes provided for in the special part, and there will be discussions on the amendments in particular. In a special section, it's intended to kill out of compassion as a privileged form of murder, and I think it's a good thing. I saw that this was foreseen by the Criminal Law of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia in 1929. The Justice Committee has heard arguments that this form of murder can be misused, however it is not and is not true, because every crime must be fully proven, with all its essential elements and features, which means that it must be proven that a sick person in a serious and explicit way has sought it and some other elements must be fulfilled. I'd like to say something special about crimes against honor and respect. It is characteristic that a criminal offence has been detained, although the Democratic Party has submitted an amendment to delete the member, because we believe that given the degree of social danger of this crime it should not be covered by criminal law but by criminal law. This in the first row because they would be damaged in a misdemeanor procedure their satisfaction would get in a much faster way and thus be more satisfied. In addition, it must be taken into account the fact that the damaged person has the right to receive compensation in a litigation procedure because of suffering mental pain and that there is an opportunity in litigation to resolve these issues in a more just manner, i.e. to give adequate compensation. I don't think even a crime of insult, and even slanders wouldn't have to be incriminating, because the satisfaction and satisfaction of the damaged would have to be fully experienced in a litigation procedure, and that would be a kind of punishment for whoever did it. I'd still say about the definition of a rape crime that a vague and inaccurate formulation, which cannot possibly be an element of a crime, is highlighted. It is said, whoever forces another to promise, or with it an equal act of force or threat, etc. The formula "equal act with promise" is very inaccurate and can't even imagine what an act is meant to be. If it is already known, why is it not stated what it refers to and who it is who can decide whether it is an equal act, etc. We have foreseen the amendment, and we will discuss it in particular. Finally, I would like to say something about the draft law on juvenile offenders and the criminal protection of minors. It is good that this matter is united in one law, but the question remains whether educational orders and educational measures are implemented in practice, because so far it has been a big problem. I don't see that some problem has been solved in this regard, because, as the minister said, there is an increase in crimes that are minors, and it's known that in speaking educational measures they come out of the courtroom laughing. In the discussion of details, there will be more details. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19783	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Zarko Obradovic, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19784	Dear President, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, today we are launching a debate on a set of important laws, each of which is reflected in a specific way in the lives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I will focus my presentation on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group on the proposal for a criminal code, for the simple reason I consider it to be one of the most important, perhaps after the Constitution, one of the most significant laws. With special satisfaction, I can conclude that this is one of the laws that speak out in terms of both SPS and how it has led to our legislation being brought into line with modern world movements. In addition, the bill shows that the reform in criminal law, initiated by the Socialist Party of Serbia, is only continued because the largest number of solutions contained in the current Criminal Law remain in force, while certain crimes are only adapted to current world conditions. The proposed criminal code contains one highlighted measure of continuity of the criminal law authority of this State. What particularly delights is the fact that the Criminal Code proposal contains a prominent legal approach to the norming of criminal norms that are protected by criminal code norms. These are, as a rule, parts of capital character and are important because they are not brought by any authority, nor by any authority, but are the result of a general approach, based on the principles of legality. I especially point out this because in recent practice we have had obvious examples of criminal law abuse as a means to combat political insinuation. What is looking forward to is the fact that this code is legal and does not contain ideological and party features. It is evident that the proposed solutions in the criminal code contain the denial of DOS policies and views, for example, provisions of the 98th Code, which refer to criminal acts against constitutional arrangements and security of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro and speak about constitutional arrangements, i.e. the attack on constitutional regulation, remained almost unchanged in relation to the existing law. Therefore, everything that the Socialists have treated as violence and illegal destruction of the authorities is also criminally punishable under this law. Furthermore, provisions on terrorism and armed rebellion remained almost unchanged because they were in line with widely accepted international standards. I point to this because of the fact that state intervention in Kosovo and Metohija was legally established, not only by our Criminal Law, but also by international accepted standards. This is important to mention because we fought terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija. This was recognised by the whole world by 1998, and in 1998 there was a change in US policy, a change in attitude towards our country, a change in relations with the fight against terrorism, and now we find out why. Independent analysts, people who do not deal with politics, only now bring out a bright set of facts: that America was behind the support of the UK and that it encouraged the fight of Albanians to create an independent state. It is so important to mention these things and because of what happened to us then, especially because of what awaits us, which is a diplomatic, legal and political struggle for respect for Resolution 1244 and the preservation of Kosovo's status within Serbia. Of course, I share those opinions that show that criminal law reform is an important and current topic and, above all, because of concrete historical practice. The reform is also required by processes that mark the beginning of the 21st century. In fact, modern processes question state borders, which before the universal perception of equality among people who, I quote, are "free, equal in dignity and rights and awareness of the necessity that universal rights and freedoms of man must be protected by the legal system give way to a world without borders". Of course, that world without borders is being abused by many. It is a very widespread practice by the great powers to use this formulation practically under the protection of general human rights and freedoms firm as a legal basis for intervention and for the repression of state independence and independence and the installation of large-scale political systems. "The construction of a new world began with the general acceptance of various international institutional forms contained in multilateral and bilateral conventions. These processes also make a significant contribution to universal international and regional organisations, such as the UN, the European Community, the Council of Europe and others, which, by seeking to spread the idea of human rights and freedoms, contribute greatly to the fact that the greatest number of national states accepts the obligation to protect and respect human rights and freedoms, contributing to each individual's sense to a member of the international community. "It should be recalled that nearly half of the last century was marked by a practice in which an individual protected his guaranteed international rights against national courts, following a procedure laid down by national law. The existence of differences in the development of legal systems of individual countries objectively gave rise to the possibility of the same rights being protected in a different way and with different successes from country to country. Hence, the requirements for direct application of international law standards represent the necessity of modern development. However, due to the lack of codified international political law, each individual is both an entity and a national and international law that function legally in almost all countries of the world. In international criminal law, each individual has certain protection, but this right can be imposed on him and certain obligations. Such a relationship also gives rise to the necessity of applying and developing international criminal law that does not create a national state on the usual legislative path, but the supranational authorities of the international community. Starting from these premises, it can be found, although certain critical objections, as we have done in the form of amendments, can be made, that it is in line with almost all accepted theories in the area of criminal law. In addition, the proposal for a criminal code is also in line with the Statute of the Permanent International Criminal Court, but also with international agreements that oblige Serbia to reform criminal law, including the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms, as well as with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. That this also shows the fact that a new crime, so-called "criminal" has been included in the Code of Criminal Code. Commanding responsibility, through the crime of not preventing the committing of a crime against humanity. We believe that the introduction of this crime into our criminal law has removed all the reasons for making objections from the international community to our criminal legislation. Although the proposal for a criminal code retains continuity with current criminal legislation, it also represents a significant shift forward in the area of criminal law. For these very reasons, the legislator of this code could, in a well-founded way, have to explain why, unlike the solution contained in the criminal laws of other countries of the previous Yugoslavia, and even in countries in the region, the maximum penalty that can be imposed for the most serious crime is 40 years, while in these countries for 30 years. The comparisons work, in the Criminal Code of Montenegro, the maximum penalty that can be imposed is 30 years. Does this mean that a Serbian citizen who commits the same crime as a Montenegrin citizen will be severely punished? Does this mean a threat to his rights and freedom? In addition to the above, in the Code of Criminal Code, the time range for threatened penalties is too large, for example, from two to 10 years. It would be good for the legislator to consider whether leaving such a large space favours various abuses, especially given the latest developments in the judiciary. I am aware that certain solutions contained in the code have arisen under the pressure of the international community. This is the case with the criminal part of an aggressive war being brought into our criminal law without being told what is meant by an aggressive war. I propose, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, that the legislator of this code consider the possibility of defining himself for the formulation contained in the Statute of the International Criminal Court, where it is said that the crime of aggression will be more precisely determined after it has been defined in the international community and as such is widely accepted. In addition, the question arises what to do with crimes that represent the international obligation of the state community, as an entity of international criminal law, as well as because of the very nature of certain protection facilities of certain criminal offences. First of all, I think of Serbia-Montenegro's Army, constitutional arrangement and security of the state community, etc. (President: You'll use another part of the time? Here you go. ) The fact is that the legislator did not give up everything he has the right to under international norms and conventions by an independent and sovereign state, so that the provisions of the Code of Criminal Code do not differ from those of the provisions which were the basis for the criminal responsibility of Western and NATO pact leaders. There is no provision that would differ from those that were the basis for these people's criminal responsibility. Under the generally accepted standards of international criminal law, it is a crime against the civilian population, war crimes, a brutal violation of international law standards, the use of illicit funds and the like, which contains the proposal for a criminal code. I'd point to a newspaper containing the Code of Criminal Code. In fact, as a general provision, it is envisaged that failure to execute a judicial verdict is a criminal offence. I assume that such a provision represents the proposal to increase the degree of struggle in strengthening the legality and role of the judicial authority. I hope this at the same time means breaking up with current practice, that individual prominent officials who are dissatisfied with the court's decision make the same public comment, or, worse still, statements that they will not implement certain court decisions. Although they commit a crime, they often went without consequences. Finally, I would like to express my expectation that by adopting this code, the prosecution will finally realize that the guilty of violent conduct and vandal burning of the Assembly must be held accountable on 5 October 2000, because this code also provides for them, and that they cannot be amnesty for these crimes. Also, our judiciary must face the fact that it has been illegally kidnapped and extradited to The Hague by Slobodan Milosevic, that more than 1,700 Shipatarian terrorists and so on have been illegally released. These crimes are known to the guilty, they must answer to our judicial authorities for committing crimes that are punishable by all generally recognised international criminal norms. I must say that this criminal code proposal contains one crime which, in our opinion, has been the subject of great abuse in the past few years. It's about the famous crime, which is abuse of office. As clean and harmless as that crime seemed, and what was done, I'm going to plastically show a few cases of what it looked like in practice. I will read Article 242 of the existing law, which reads: "The official person who, by taking advantage of his official position or authority, by exceeding the limit of his official authority or by failing to carry out his official business, duties, obtaining himself or another benefit, harms others or serious harms the rights of another, will be punished by imprisonment from six months to five years. If the execution of an act referred to in Article 1 has provided an asset benefit of more than 300,000 dinars, the perpetrator will be punished by imprisonment from one to 10 years. If the execution of the part referred to in Article 1 has provided an asset benefit of more than 850,000 dinars, the perpetrator will be punished by imprisonment for at least three years. The responsible person in the undertaking, establishment or other organisation that performs the work referred to in Articles 1 and 3 of this Article shall be punished by the penalty prescribed for that act." I considered it necessary for me to read this to you, because over the past four years, the practice of applying the Criminal Law in the territory of Serbia has experienced a trial according to political definition against political insinuators and that members of the SPS or other citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who have been proposed or elected to a state or some other institution on a proposal from the SPS, are subject to persecution and legal torture. I will only mention six cases of abuse: 1. There are cases where charges of abuse of official office are filed and when the defendant has acted in accordance with the law, but allegedly did not obtain consent directly from a higher authority, although he is not bound by law to such a procedure. 2. The public prosecutor filed criminal charges against SPS members even in those cases where he himself found that the participant in a particular procedure acted in accordance with the powers and powers he had and that, in all that case, had no personal benefit, which he says, of course, that the indictment was based on political motives. 3. A criminal report has been filed for abuse of official position against persons who are often not direct employers. Above them were two or three leaders against whom the indictment was not filed, but against, of course, a member of the SPS, which says the indictment was based on political motives. 4. A criminal application has been filed for abuse of official position in those cases where the contracting authority and the contracting authority accept that the job has been carried out in accordance with the provisions of the contract between those entities. 5. In some cases, the public prosecutor filed criminal charges for the alleged abuse of his official position and when material damage was done less than the one prescribed by the law, saying such an indictment had a political background. Six. In some cases, the public prosecutor has also filed criminal charges for abuse of the official position because of the alleged disregard for the business procedure of the authorities, although the same work on the body is not disputed; etc. etc. I didn't mention names on purpose, because what I'm saying is based on documents. I've got all that paperwork on me. Of course, that is the problem of the state, not the SPS, because in this matter we will insist on fighting the application of policies to the judiciary. We'll have to make all these cases public and stamp those who do so. Speaking on behalf of the SPS, I have to say, when I say "cases" I really mean cases, because I don't want those honest, working, hardworking, professional people in the judiciary, whether it's about prosecutors or judges, to feel called when these speakers mention the work of certain people, because these bad people have done great harm to the judiciary and the state of Serbia, and on certain occasions, it is not necessary to conclude that the situation in the whole Serbian judiciary is so. I mentioned six typical ways to interpret this crime. I have here a very specific case, it's about the abuse of the official position that was allegedly committed by Dr Bozidar Jelic, at the time he served as assistant minister of education. Of course, he was the subject of special treatment for the D.A.'s people and you'll see why. Namely, he has been accused of committing abuse of his official position and the application exists. There is a process to be conducted against him, although the act for which he is accused is not the case, or what he has done should not have been the subject of this crime. It is something he has done, which the law prescribes, is not his jurisdiction; it is the responsibility of the minister and other people in the ministry. It is interesting that he, trying to protect his personality in different ways and believing that there is justice and justice in this society, seeing that for the same act he was accused of (it is a sum of 600 and a few thousand dinars, as non-intentional spending of funds), on the same legal basis the previous minister of education and competent people in the ministry spent more than 10 million dinars, so, on the same legal basis, filed a complaint to the prosecution. What's going on? When he submitted a request to the Ministry of Finance, Mr Djelic, on 21 November 2002 to send a budget inspection to the Ministry of Education for the purpose of checking the non-intentional spending of funds and determining the abuse of the previous minister and the authorities, otherwise it was the same procedure, the same part on which a criminal report was filed against him, the result was that the finance ministry had done nothing and they realized that the request had disappeared. Then, on September 22, 2003, a man renewed a request from the finance minister for a budget inspection. Result: delays and promises without a concrete procedure. Furthermore, on October 17, 2003, he filed a criminal complaint to the Second Municipal Prosecutor's Office against a person, and it is not the names here but the principle, because I will deliver all this to the prosecutor, so a complaint has been filed against Bozidar Djelic for the cover-up of the crime and the execution of the crime, as well as for the violation of Article 60. Criminal law, which concerns discrimination on a political basis. As a result, he was told ironically that none of this would happen, as such a political climate is in the prosecution. On 21 November 2002, he filed a criminal complaint against the second municipal prosecutor's office against the previous minister of education and sports and the secretary of the ministry for the same crime for which the Second Prosecutor's Office initiated the same against Mr Jelic. The result: the public prosecutor and her deputies informed Mr. Jelic that there is no reasonable doubt that they have committed that crime or any criminal offence. They didn't even find it appropriate to conduct basic investigations. On 24 October 2003, he made a personal request to the prosecutor, insisting that an investigation be carried out against the minister and secretary of the ministry, stressing that non-implementation of the same member meant discrimination on a political basis and violation of Article 60. The criminal law of the Republic of Serbia. The result was that the prosecutor simply ignored this attitude. Now, since time is limited, the point is that the prosecution has not responded. There's a criminal case against a man that's being conducted. It'll probably be sentencing. It is clear that either against the previous minister or Mr. Jelic must be released. These two things don't go differently, considering it's the same thing. I mentioned this as an eclectic example of how one crime can be misused. I think it's good that it exists in our criminal code, because unfortunately I appreciate that there have been a dozen cases of abuse of official position that have not yet seen the light of day because of individuals in the judiciary. I'm saying, because of the individuals in the judiciary, not because of the judiciary as such. All of this drives me right to that basic setting that we should do everything possible to stamp these negative phenomena, so that the culprits are punished, so that Serbia simply has an independent and independent judiciary. When I say independently and independently, they work in the law and in the interests of the citizens, and they don't care whether the Assembly has chosen them with a smaller or larger number of votes. (President:Time. I'm sorry, Mr. President, I'm finishing up, but that's when we make the choice of leaders in the judiciary. Finally, together with several other colleagues, I have submitted a number of amendments to this proposal for a criminal code, and in most cases Mr. Minister and Government have accepted these amendments. The other amendments that have not been accepted are being withdrawn this way, and I expect my colleagues, MPs of the SPS, to do so in the coming days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19785	Thank you. So, please, are you withdrawing your amendments? I see. We find that something goes wrong in the record, and the word is MP Marko Krstin, the authorised representative of the G17 Plus parliamentary group. Then we'll move on to the debate by the registered speakers, all the MPs' groups checked in, so just so we know about the order. The MP Ljiljana Nestorovic will first speak, and then the MP Rajko Baralic will speak. Once again, I remind those who did not follow the morning work, we are working today until the principle debate is over. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Kristin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19786	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, as a lawyer and as an MP of the G17 plus, I am extremely pleased to talk here about a set of judicial laws, for which there is a need for a long time, and which Parliament, in whose composition I am, intends to pass. I am very pleased that most of my colleagues or all my colleagues who have discussed, regardless of the political parties they belong to, support the concept of the law and that the law has just been put into debate and adoption. As far as the criminal code is concerned, that's right, the Code, because we're used to that term criminal law, and this is about the Code, which is very important, because it is really in the legal regulation that the ultimate achievement is made – this is indeed a code not only by name, but also by what it represents contentally. It reflects what was good, which proved to be meaningful in the current application of the Criminal Law. I'd like to point out, we've had two laws in this area, a law since 1977, and a law since 1976. The 1976 law is a former federal law, and now a basic law; the 1977 law is a Republic law; this one has been amended 23 times, and the basic law 11 times. You can imagine how difficult it was to apply one of these rules in practice. What is absolutely the advantage of the code is that it contains as a codification all that is necessary in so-called ‘. material criminal law, which the lawyers would tell me, and what with procedural criminal law, means with the criminal procedural code represents one continent in this criminal-legal matter. Now, what I particularly consider to be very good is the procedure for minor criminals, which on the one hand expresses the proper and new relationship of this assembly to this form of crime, which is on the rise and has been on the rise for a long time, but has not responded to that. The law has 432 members and prescribes over 320 crimes. The general part, indeed, represents, to the greatest extent possible, what was the general part and so far, for the past 30 years, with certain changes that really lead to improvement in this matter. I would not agree with my predecessor, a colleague of the DS, if it were a repressive law, on the contrary. Unfortunately, we do not have too many elements to strengthen the position damaged in criminal proceedings. Everything, of course, is facing the defendant, to protect the general interest, to protect society from crime. As for the latest penalties prescribed, minimum and maximum, as well as general, it can be said that they are balanced, both mutually and for certain crimes, and cannot be characterised as repressive. As far as the subject mentioned here is concerned, that this is an affair in the judiciary, it's about deprivement of the freedom that we have approved here as a Parliament, so the deputy prosecutor and the Supreme Court judge, I couldn't call it an affair. The people's affair involves something that has not been sanctioned, not processed by state authorities. The state authorities here responded immediately, in the right way. I think all MPs of this assembly support it, and that support I have come to understand through our unanimous decision to carry out proceedings against these judicial officials. Of course, I am pleased that this assembly did not select those holders of judicial functions, but rather took steps to remove such holders of judicial functions from the functions on which they work. They were chosen by the former Assembly, here's a colleague. So this convocation has taken everything so that it doesn't come to that. I'd like to talk a little bit about the purpose of punishment from the general section, and I've heard my colleagues debate very carefully. It was a really good debate, they were all good. Purpose of punishment (as it was): individual prevention, general prevention, social condemnation, moral strengthening and legal awareness. I would really like for some future right to be satisfactory, therefore, damages to the damaged. Because in an individual concept, which we are getting closer to, not only to protect the people and the state in general, I would advocate greater protection of individuals, given that the property-legal requirement as a request for damage is very difficult or almost never implemented in criminal proceedings. I can see that when it comes to criminal proceedings against minors, we have a role as damaged which is quite significant. I think it would be very good to stress in criminal proceedings against adult persons the role of damaged persons and to allow for greater rights, especially the protection of their property interests, which is a satisfaction for certain crimes that are directed towards the damaged. I think we should protect the more damaged. Since colleagues have talked a lot about the general work, I'm just going to look back at a few new crimes, to distract the public and our citizens, who are quite interested in this debate. Two new forms of privileged murder, the murder of a child and the murder of a burdened woman, as a difficult form of murder, and we have a new form of privileged murder, which is a murder of compassion. So these two new forms of serious murder are also how to introduce, murder a child and murder a burden on a woman. A new form is also privileged, it's a murder of compassion and practice has shown that it should also be introduced. I would especially point to Chapter XIV, which is a criminal offense against the freedom and rights of man and citizen; this is where crimes are committed – the violation of freedom of expression of national or ethnicity and the violation of freedom of confession of religion and the conduct of religious rituals. I will be free to quote part of Article 131: "The punishment of the first article will also punish anyone who prevents or interferes with religious rituals. "If such sanctions and such a state existed in some of our surrounding countries, it would not have happened that the Bishop John, the world of Vranishevski, would have been in prison for baptizing a child. That can't happen in Serbia, I'm very happy about it, and I would even say proud. Furthermore, what I would draw attention to, these are new crimes for the protection of individuals, means a citizen, who protects the privacy of citizens. I would also draw attention, and this is very important, to the unauthorized collection of personal data and to the unauthorized publication and presentation of other people's files, portraits and videos. So, personal rights and the privacy of citizens are protected, which is a very significant crime which represents a good measure to protect the privacy of citizens, since different forms of information about these rights are often accompanied by illegal situations that violate every kind of human freedom. This is one measure that should allow it to come down to normal frames. New crimes against election rights are also significant, that is, Chapter XV, Giving and receiving bribes in connection with the vote. We had a chance to boast or to know who gave up how much money to vote on, who went to the neighborhood, and there he shared not only a sandwich and pasta, and something concrete, so he sent buses. So, the government saw that there was a need here for something like this to be arranged and I welcome it. So, it's very important and Head XX, and it's crimes against intellectual property, it's something new, not as new in practice as new in editing, and I welcome it, as well as new crimes against the economy, falsifying securities of value and counterfeiting funds of cash. There are many crimes, there are 327 of them, and I think this law is comprehensive and it deserves the term – the code. I'll stay a little longer than my colleagues on the other laws. Law on juvenile offenders and criminal and legal protection of minors. This is very important, because for the first time in recent history, this procedure is being singled out. He was unjustly along with the process of adulthood. I think that persons of minor crime, and especially its increase, or diversity, provide the basis for the suggestor to suggest something like this. It is particularly important to introduce, in addition to the educational safety measures, so-called. the educational orders or measures of the sui generis, which shows a different attitude of the state to this form of crime, which again means that the state perfects its mechanisms and methods, and how it reacts to certain methods and measures of crime, although in the legal theory it is considered that state institutions are slowly variable. I welcome one of these changes, and I appreciate that she's here at the right time. As for educational orders, they mean certain circumstances, and I'm going to explain them a little bit, because I think it's a whole new thing. So the educational order can be applied not only by the court, but also by the prosecutor, only by certain crimes, where fines and prisons are scheduled for up to five years. The conditions are for a minor to confess to a crime and show proper relationship, on the one hand, to the part, and on the other hand to the damaged. Thus, the types of educational assignments are adjusted. So it's very important, and I would point out that as a confirmation of my thesis, that we need to protect the damaged more in criminal proceedings, that the first educational order is a alignment with the damaged and damages. This is very important, because damaged in criminal proceedings often feels neglected behind some state or social interest and often criminal proceedings, especially if the prosecutor is not agile enough, they do not view as their own personal protection. This is one of the ways in which a criminal case is considered to be the personal protection of each individual citizen who has been damaged by a criminal offence. Also, as a type of educational order – regular school attendance and regular work departure, inclusion without compensation in the work of humanitarian organisations, submission of appropriate studies and withdrawal of addictions, especially in drug addicts, as well as inclusion in individual, or group treatment in the appropriate medical institution and counselling – these are measures that are really valuable and can express particular satisfaction that the promoter has suggested such a thing. The law, of course, is conceived, as shown by these kinds of educational orders, to first of all aphirmise the principle of education, instead of the principle of punishment. In particular, it is important to form or form new organs within the existing bodies. Therefore, jurisdiction is changed, with municipal courts, jurisdiction is transferred to district courts, as in courts that are specialised and have judges who are richer in life experience and more skilled in certain areas. Special conditions are also foreseen for defenders, so, for lawyers, who must know certain rights and the rules to which those rights are exercised. Of course, I mean minors and underage police. As regards the draft law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, I think it is also a legal text that really represents a step forward in solving the problems so far, because there are many more public in the enforcement of criminal sanctions. We are facing judicial control in the violation of individual rights of convicted persons, which largely allows convicted persons not to be completely on the sidelines and completely without help when they support the sentence of prison, in relation to those persons or the punishment that is determined. This law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, of course, brought into line with the international obligations that we have adopted, provides for the introduction of new penalties, such as the penalty of work in the public interest, which has been arranged in a diabolical way and I think it would be good for the special regulations to regulate these issues more in detail so that this punishment would be applied wider. Special arrangements are being made for the execution of penalties for violations, then detention measures, and is particularly an interesting part of the law which has quite detailedly regulated the rights and obligations of staff in institutions. I think we are also witnessing that employees are violating the rights and obligations they have and that it is very important that their rights and obligations are carefully regulated, with a procedure against them being conducted in these cases. It's another instrument to stop corruption. The law detailes the types of institutions, the types of institutions, puts emphasis on the public work of the Administration for the execution of criminal sanctions; rightly puts that administration in the Ministry of Justice. So from Articles 31 to 174, it prescribes the execution of a prison sentence, detailing cases of postponement, which is very important, to remove arbitration and conditions for corruption that existed, because it did not matter whether someone was granted or not to postpone the sentence. We've set it up here in detail, and I think it's very good. As regards the position of the convicted, it shall be arranged from Articles 65 to 127, which is very good, because, regardless of the person the State has designated to maintain a certain sentence and to endure sanctions for illegal conduct, it must have certain rights. The democraticization of a single state is now seen in the extent to which these persons are protected in their rights. So, as I was saying about the damaged, so are certain rights to those who have damaged someone. There is a taxicab listed, comprehensive, from visiting defenders, the right to stay in a special room once in three months with a spouse, children or other close person, to the right to work at their own workplace if the punishment is up to six months, which is very good in today’s times when employment is difficult and easy to lose a job. Then, to have 70 percent of the fee. I especially stress, when it comes to measures for disciplinary offenses and measures, that security in the administrative dispute has been secured, with a precise deadline of 15 days to be resolved by the lawsuit, which is very significant. I would also mention the measure of singleness, which belongs to the most difficult disciplinary measure, that it is precisely limited, with precise dimensions of space, lighting, and all other things that need not be humiliated or tortured by a convicted person while sustaining such a kind of disciplinary measure. There is a law on the protection of participants in criminal proceedings. Also, on the agenda, we have a whole new regulation. The government also reacted here on time. It is about the necessary means of proof, the witnesses, the defendants who may be in the position of witnesses, who, without this law, would not be able to fulfill their function, given that we are dealing with organised crime, terrorism, war crimes and other most serious forms of crime or crimes that are in itself in a group of the most serious crimes. A special protection mechanism is envisaged, independent of the one in the ordinary criminal procedure, which is otherwise insufficient, time and spatially limited and only tied to a direct participant in the proceedings while in court. Everything else doesn't exist. Indeed, it is established that such a law is passed, for anyone who would testify or who would put himself in conflict with an organized group if he did not enjoy any protection outside the court building or even in the court building is extremely weak. This law rests on the principle of volunteering and volunteering to accept protection. There are special authorities - the Commission for the implementation of this programme, which are representatives of the Supreme Court and representatives who propose the relevant institutions. On the other hand, we have a protection unit formed within the MUP, which is tasked only to deal with this area. In principle, protection does not last forever, long-term, it lasts until the isolation of the person who put his life at risk in order to enable the state to deal with the most severe forms of crime. The height will be equally interesting: it is only up to the amount necessary to cover life costs and involve the person in the new environment. The measures are: physical protection, change of residence, cover-up of identity and property data, as a measure to be applied only if these four failed, change of identity. It could be a physical change in identity or just a change in documents. I'm saying, this is a new law that will bring security to people who put themselves at risk of fighting organised crime together with the state and it has a lot of justification to bring it in. The G17 plus MPs support this law from the bottom of their hearts. With regard to the amendment and addition of the Criminal Procedure Act, this is a minor amendment which, in fact, represents a change to the fact that, instead of the State Security Resolution, as part of the MUP, we, by law, have formed the BIA, which is a special body, outside the MUP. As a result, it is necessary for certain actions, which have been authorised by the Ministry of State Security and within it, to enable the BIA to deal with them as well. This is about monitoring, recording phone and other conversations and optical images of certain faces. All these laws by the G17 Group plus evaluates the right for this moment. As for the criminal code, we believe that it will long apply to our criminal practice, as well as to the law on minors, as well as the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions. We hope that the protection law will not apply for long and that we will deal with this phenomenon of organised crime and terrorism.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19787	The word has the minister of justice Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19788	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I asked in the opening statement that you would have the understanding that I would have to leave this session before the end, I would like to address you all this way. In the opening statement, I said I really thank you for the full co-operation of all the parliamentary groups. Now, when I heard the opening statements of the heads of Parliament's groups, it turns out I was right. Yet we are not the people they call us – Serbs who do not see from foreigners what is important. A system law that has meaning for the whole society, including for us here, really comes across a full understanding amongst the parliamentary groups. What I'm trying to say again is that all the groups have made one remarkable contribution. You've also heard in these speeches that there was really no politics. There were words about what was thought to be good, possibly about what had to be corrected, in which we had absolute agreement all of us had. This is indeed one system law that should exist for a longer period and be for the benefit of all of us. I just want to point out a few things that cause confusion. About one remark was that the minimums and the maximums were slightly raised, so that there could be a tightening. No, we've had a lot of harsh criminal legislation, looking at European legislation. We have experienced the situation that the minimums and maximums set have given us the opportunity to bring court practice to be one of the countries that is the easiest in the world to be punished. We all suffered great and justified criticism from citizens, for it was difficult to explain how, for example. for drug dealing and similar things, a large number of parolees. In this way we tried to, by raising minimums, disable a little twisted court practice. On the other hand, it had to be kept in mind that court practice formally became a source of law, but instead of being an exception, you know what the source of law is, court practice -- a general session of the Supreme Court, in exceptional cases, when the norm is unclear, we have experienced here that we have so-called. The case-law that led to the collapse of the norm. That's why we've stepped up these standards to prevent such a collapse of the same standards. There were words that, eventually, there could be abuse in persecution. At first, I said that we are passing a new law on criminal proceedings in which certain things and prevention will be decided, to the greatest extent, abuses of that kind. To be clear, no law can eliminate all abuses. On the contrary, if they come forth, they are revealed; they are driven away. At least in a certain way, they will remove those objective possibilities. The question has been asked why a 40-year sentence. The sentence of life is gone and it is clear that it can no longer have, the European legislation does not know it. It was a matter of life imprisonment. I think only a few European countries have it, but with one procedure where an opportunity is given when an early release can be sought, etc. It is one complex procedure that would not bring us anything, and on the other hand we would introduce one punishment that would be essential for the purpose of achieving any punishment. In that situation, we felt that the best punishment for this is so-called punishment. to apply a long-term prison, because we're coming into a 40-year sentence situation, you know how much it is, and I don't think it achieves the purpose, eliminates two key elements for the purpose of punishment, and I think it might even give better results. The question was why not decriminalize the insult and slander. I have to say, that's not to go wrong. The constitution provides for two freedoms... Just to explain what's been arranged by this law, why the insult and slander have wiped out the prison, and the rest are crimes. The constitution provides for two freedoms. One is freedom of information and public declaration, and on the other hand is the protection of the integrity of the citizens. That's two equal freedoms. You can't completely disavow another in the name of one freedom. I think we've found the best solution and the best measure to protect both freedoms. I'm not talking about what you were talking about, about protecting journalists, sources, etc., but really there was no possibility. For your information, there has been a lot of pressure on the side to decriminalize it, but they couldn't give me an answer to the fact that all European legislation has it in their legislation, so there was even an explanation that it has it, but it doesn't apply to a good extent. I'll give you a case so you know what it is. I thought we needed to protect our situation, in a certain way our sovereignty. Here's a key reason. Kosovo and Metohija, Europe gave them less than a year and a half ago a criminal law and you know it. You know there's an insult and slander in that law. Why should we be the ones who have to accept something that this Europe has kept with it, whether it applies or not, but it does. Or, let me give you another example of one neat country, we won't argue here, Germany. A prison sentence of up to five years is scheduled for the most difficult act. I thought this was the best measure for these two rights to find protection and not to be damaged against each other. That was why we kept it. As for the extent of criminalization, I think we've committed some decriminalization in the general part, and you've already mentioned it in certain cases, but, for example, As far as the military is concerned, if you've noticed, up to three years of all those acts as milder, we've transferred them to disciplinary responsibility, so in that part we've made sure that we decriminalize something that isn't necessary to be in this law. The question of the role of the damaged – we have introduced certain norms, a declaration has been made in Helsinki about the so-called Mediation. We have done so in a certain way in the case of minors, including the execution of sanctions, and the rest is guilty. I can give you information that a new law on criminal proceedings will introduce what you say should exist, so to speak. Mediation for the weakest, means a peaceful path, where the defendant must face the damaged, the damaged gets greater significance, and the state does not have to conduct difficult and complex procedures. This will certainly be done and it will enter our law on criminal proceedings, even before Europe ratifys that convention. I think it's gonna be okay. There's a fact that it gives greater importance to the fine, which is everywhere in the world. There's a fact that our material situation isn't the best, but as you can see, it moves better every year. We are passing criminal law as an important system law, and I personally believe that, after the Constitution, such laws should be passed in such a way that they last a considerable number of years, and that, possibly if something new appears or needs to be amended, it should be amended by amendments. So, like other countries in Europe, we have a criminal law that lasts for 100 years, but with the amendment some things change. That's how we're gonna do it. As for the mention of Bishop John, this ministry was assigned and we did a valid analysis. It turned out that the verdict was passed, and there was no shop, that directly the Constitution guaranteed something else, the law guaranteed something else, and we gave that argument. Ours, the Serbian delegation put it out in Strasbourg, was assessed as completely correct and that protection should be sought before the court in Strasbourg. In the meantime, I hear there's been a verdict, where they tried to throw out in the fact that they can't, in fact, those elements that have clearly hurt their eyes that are directly opposed to the Constitution, but they've confirmed the verdict. I think we'll be able to solve that at the Strasbourg court. So thank you again, and I'm pleased to see that, when it comes to such serious matters, it is legally discussed. There was a really valid relationship with this law, valid critical remarks, the government accepted everything that was good, it fit into this continent, and I think we showed once that we as Serbs don't have to transfer everything to foreigning, but there are also some important things where we agree because they are important to society as a whole.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19789	The word has a folk MP Ljiljana Nestorovic, and let the MP Rajko Baralic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19790	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, I have paid particular attention to the proposal of a new criminal law as an MP for the SDP, and I have been working on it since I sent the proposal to the National Assembly, so since October of last year. I was curious about what had been contained in the 1929 Criminal Code of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, so I took the appropriate literature from the library of the Federal Assembly and from our congregation library, and above all from the book of our prominent legal theorist and academician Tome Zivanovic. At the same time, I followed in the press a very heated debate about what the judges say about the new criminal code. The basic dilemma, of course, was whether the best solution for the most severe forms of crime was to be punished for 40 years, as envisioned by the proposal for a new criminal code and how this ultimately defines this criminal law that is now in force. The perpetrators pointed out that the range between the general maximum, therefore 15 and 20 years, and 40 years is very large and that the range excludes shades in the trial. Or, in the dilemma of whether to impose a general maximum, a sentence of 15 or 20 years or 40 years of age, judges usually commit themselves to a minor sentence, which is not always just. It quickly became clear to me what might actually be the best solution. If the death penalty was abolished in our country and if the pandan of the suspended death sentence is not a life sentence, but a 40-year sentence, the main issue was how to overcome the problem between 20 and 40 years and to meet the case-laws and demands of judges who are, after all, the most invited to talk about it. In the Montenegrin Criminal Code, the maximum sentence is 30 years, and I think that my fellow MPs from some other parliamentary groups in the National Assembly have followed that amendment, which proposed that the maximum sentence be not 40, but 30 years in prison. However, my thinking went in a very different direction – is it, for example, just justice that the punishment for the monstrous killings is only 30 years? Could that be a death penalty pandemn? My deep belief is that he can't. A monster killer who kills a whole family for nothing, as we unfortunately had a case in practice to see us, if he's 25 years old, he'll get out of prison, if the maximum sentence is 30 years old, and he's 55 years old, and he'll continue his life, I guess the same way he started before he went to prison. Unfortunately, there are such mistakes of nature, or there are people of beasts. That's why my proposal was that instead of 40 years for these crimes, prisons of 30 to 40 years are prescribed, which goes to meet the demands of the judges of the guilty, and does not end the possibility of a 40-year sentence. That solution has been accepted by the government and I really think that this is essentially the best possible solution. It has not been accepted, however, my amendment to move the lower minimum sentence of prison from six months to one year for the immediate cause of death, so that the sentence is, instead of six months to eight years, on my proposal from one year to eight years. The intensities of this criminal code were to reduce the prison sentence for the accidental execution of crimes. I agree with that in principle, but not when it resulted in a fatal outcome. People's lives are very cheap with us, it doesn't have to be repeated, it's already become a phrase. Unfortunately, that's quite true, and the state as a system is full of irresponsibleness and misbehavior. I also remind you of the definition of malpractice in Article 26. The bill: "The crime was committed out of neglect when the perpetrator was aware that he could do his work, but he easily held that it would not come to this or that he would be able to prevent it or when he was unaware that he could do his work, although under the circumstances under which it was done and according to his personal properties he was obliged and could be aware of this possibility. "So that's not what we call a coincidence in life, it's just irresponsibility and negligence. So far, criminal policy certainly wasn't good, and that's what we all agreed on here in the Assembly. It happened, for example, that a guy kills a girl and gets seven or eight years of punishment, and that the judge, as a easing circumstance, leads to jealousy. In normal, serious countries, such killings are essentially an incident, they hardly exist. With us, however, there is a everyday phenomenon, which is very mildly punished. The penalty for an organized robbery is often in that range for seven or eight years, but you will admit that the robbery is just a robbery, and that murder is a murder. To not be misunderstood, I do not advocate that the situation simply improves by being drastically stricter, but unfortunately, we are neither Sweden nor Norway, in the sense that we are a developed civil society, and if the reduction of penalties does not follow the generalization and development of all the institutions of society, I believe that the reduction of penalties will be counterproductive and that nothing will be achieved, however, will lead to a worse situation than it is now.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19791	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Rajko Baralic, and let the MP Slobodan Pajovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19792	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Zarko Obradovic, an authorised SPS representative has made a basic vision on behalf of the SPS regarding the criminal code and other laws that are present here today in a single debate. I would like to say that the SPS Legal Council together with the MPs discussed the proposed laws and that we have adopted 52 amendments and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has accepted 31. Because of the correctness and respect for the arguments we have offered, as well as Dr Obradovic, I am informing the National Assembly, because I have submitted a large number of amendments myself, and a large number of amendments have been accepted, that I am withdrawing all those amendments that have not been accepted, in order to facilitate and speed up the work and debate on these laws. I'd like to touch a few questions, and others have applied to say something. Chapter 28 – criminal acts against constitutional arrangements and security of the Republic of Serbia and the SCG; I would just count a few here and make certain comments. So, endangering independence, recognising capitulation or occupation, jeopardizing the territorial continent, attacking constitutional order, calling for a violent change in constitutional arrangement, killing the highest representatives of the state community and Member States, armed rebellion, terrorism, diversion, sabotage, spying, giving away state secrets. From a time distance of a few years, so five years has passed, I want to say that a serious state must have a legal tool that provides for the prevention of such events. And, without intending to hurt anyone's wounds or reminding him of something that at one point seemed to him to be the ultimate range of democracy, democratic political enthusiasm – everywhere in the world is a criminal who in any way does any of what I've listed, or is a spy, or is a criminal or what he already is. Everywhere in the world, I hope, terrorism will define itself as terrorism, and those who oppose it hope to be called the real name, and that name cannot possibly be a threat to human minority, ethnic, religious or other rights, and colleagues know what I am talking about here, as well as Serbian citizens. The secret military -- the state of Serbia had a Deputy Prime Minister, former SRJ Chief of Staff, the former head of the National Security Authority in the state union, vice-president of the current government, who was caught in the most obvious manner possible to give state secrets to foreign officials, high diplomats. I'd ask my colleagues not to, because they don't have the right. They have the right to disagree with what I'm talking about. He's done it before. I want to say that Mr. Momcilo Perisic, somewhere in May, a year before the aggression, at the House of the Army in Gornji Milanovac told reporters exactly how many we have or don't have "migs", how many we have or don't have the right engines, how many we have or don't have plane bombs, how many of these we have, and we don't have that. In this way, he endangered one of the most important components of each army, which is a deterrent component, and publicly informed the potential aggressor, and they were in sight of what they could count on when they came here. I really hope that it will never happen again in this country to do it unpunished and that all that I have listed here and what the criminal code contains, someone has come up with it because it's supposed to be written here, but because that kind of behavior should be sanctioned. Mr. Zarko Obradovicos spoke about some issues. Now I ask publicly – will someone (on the side of a political initiative) really respond to this law or someone else who, for example, represented items of invaluable value from the Federal Parliament? Who sold them, who burned them, who produced great material and national and historical damage? Will someone in any way be able to summon all those people who have functioned in this way? I'm not going to mention who wrote the book, but there's a sentence there, because of the piety of some MPs here according to some personalities. I quote, "We've committed so many crimes that there's no going back." Not back, not forward. Whoever commits crimes, no matter what his intentions, must face them and must, in a legally prescribed manner, answer for it. This is where, for the first time, command responsibility is included in this way in our legislation. I understand that, above all, it is the need that results from what Serbia is in today, that is one process of adaptation, negotiation, etc., but let's say what we think about it. Here the command responsibility of ad hoc was applied in some cases, and that the law did not even exist, from some trivial acts that are a violation to some serious ones, when anyone estimated fit him and could benefit from it politically. As far as I'm concerned, I'm not very happy that it exists here, but I said that for reasons of correctness, I won't comment on it anymore. This defines aggression in one way that doesn't entirely match what our understanding of this concept is. There are better definitions in important international documents. We were threatened in the most brutal way possible. All our potentials were at risk, our lives were at risk, our entire infrastructure, human health. There are still huge consequences of untested levels of pollution by various explosives, bombs, chemical and other means. We were an experimental lab for graphite and other fibers. A lot happened to us, and all that happened to us in this paper here was sanctioned, and anyone who did it again would have to be blamed the same way we used to blame someone. For political and other reasons, all those who, only where I live, dropped 100 bombs left 10,000 people without a job, who destroyed the entire infrastructure of Radio-Television, the post office, who killed innocent people and children. I'm saying this so we don't forget. As uncomfortable as it is for anyone, it can't be that it's the one who allegedly blamed the aggression of the one who committed the aggression. What does it mean to blame aggression? I'm talking because I associate terrorism with what I'm talking about here. Also, I would like to remind you that this country, by way of a majority opinion, has waived its rights to war damage and, for the second time, burned, bombed, burned, killed everything those who caused it already did. It's been many years since then, but there have been real consequences. I think it's good, and we agreed that it's here, just asking all my colleagues if there's any readiness, strength, if, God forbid, someone decides to say it again, to forgive anyone again? Or they will say, "We will do what is right because they have wronged that and that which is wronged." Lives in my Casca, a doctor named Merica Dragojlo, his father came from the Czech Republic as a master many years ago, was well accepted in our midst, got an apartment from the state, educated his children who had dorms, scholarships, got large apartments, were executives at different levels and one day adopted the text in "The Voice": "Dr Merrick first introduced the torch into parliament". However, many are now boasting that they burned it. I don't dispute his right to political opinion, political conviction. I don't dispute anything about what I don't dispute or anyone else in this country, but it's a lot, it's a lot. He was relieved these days by the health minister from the post of gynaecological service chief in Chacan health care. As you know, there were several mothers and babies infected with jaundice, not doing his job properly, and the other one didn't do it right. I hope anyone who has done anything in this country will have to pay someone to pay this people. The federal parliament didn't even burn the Germans. The damage caused on Radio TV was almost equal on October 5th and during the bombing. From some money, they're always from taxes, from people, from citizens, it's someone's got to do it again. We're not doomed to do everything in Serbia 10 times, are we? In the end, I will set an example because of those who think we forgot: on June 28, 2002, in a legally prescribed manner, the Socialist Party of Serbia organised a political gathering in Belgrade. One of our fellow MPs, he spoke here earlier, got a criminal report, which is still standing, because he didn't take whatever was necessary to secure the rally. The rally was not safe because Goran Vesic organised 100 young men to throw bottles and stones at police officers, and one of the officers was easily injured. There are a number of cases that say that there was a political trial here, that it was done by people who had nothing to do with all this, such as Boza Djelic, who called for a briefing of prosecutors and others to say who should be arrested, how long should he be detained. And then, when they tell him there's nothing there, he says, "Let it be found." I hope that time won't come anymore, but I hope that many of these people who have really political applications will be freed from this nonsense, it's the pressure of our fellow Fooder who has a famous criminal record, that I don't repeat it here, because of those other people who did certain jobs. Since I am from Cačka, to point out the case of two people, one was the head of the county at the time, Mr Milos Nesovic, not the one from the Kralje, but ours from Cačka, that during the war he ensured that the municipality of Gjilana would receive 10 tonnes of flour from the Stock Reserves. A criminal trial has been under way for almost two years. The man proved his innocence, but he and his family suffered much harassment, humiliation, insult, and suspense. The second gentleman, Dragan Vasovic, a longtime worker of Elektrodistribution in Cačka, and now the SPS's chairman in Cačka, comes from one of the most famous families of the chacan region - Vasovic, and his own sister is the prima dona Radmila Bakocevic. For similar reasons, otherwise Mr. Vasovic commanded the regiment that shot down the planes during the war, and that's probably the biggest problem he's ever made, he's going through similar things. I look forward to if we, by voting all these laws, create an ambience in Serbia – I personally have a lot of confidence in what the Ministry of Justice is dealing with today – which will ensure that courts and prosecutors do their jobs in a legally prescribed way, not to be consecrated, not to pursue hunting for people for political or other reasons. That is why I believe that the consensus that has almost been reached about these several laws is a guarantee that this is what I have been talking about in Serbia and that we will have one normal environment, which will ensure that everyone is doing their jobs uninterruptedly, and that no one in any way scolding him because of what he thinks, because of the way he votes, because of the party he belongs to, because of faith, nation or anything else. If we're there, then I'm really looking forward to it, and I believe we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19793	The People's MP Slobodan Vukovic has the word, and let the MP Istvan Ispanović be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19794	Ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Party has come to the conclusion that it will support this law because it contributes to a normative clearing in the criminal area. We had federal law, so the Republic law, etc., and this is progress, but still insufficient progress. When said and told here by the minister that out of the 430 members that this law contains 150 amendments, it speaks of low professional work and level, both the Ministry and the Government themselves. This shows that we do not have sufficient expertise in making these laws, and this was seen in the Law on Procedural Procedure, in other laws, and in particular from these sensitive domains relating to the trial and application of law on courts most often applied. Secondly, there's not a word here about who was involved in the drafting of this law, how much the professional public had an impact on this law. It seems she had no influence when we MPs here in the assembly were able to make so many corrections and so many repairs of this law. I say we vote for him, but I don't guarantee any other application, as some of us have pointed out here. In our view, at least 30% of the amendments submitted could have been adopted. Now I'm just going to look at some things that are very politically sensitive, and I think it's going to be important for the public to hear and share my opinion with you. In fact, this is about a part of the law that concerns sanctioning violations of electoral law. It's a very sensitive question, because we've had multiple thefts in the election, we've had it in courts, we've had it on election boards. Here, even though the minister tells us that the fines are more severe, most of these penalties begin with a minimum that reads – a fine. Why is a fine in such a serious crime as violation of voter rights, violation of voting rights, counting votes, etc.? I will read to you, for example, Article 161 says: "A member of the electoral or referendum authority or another person who performs his duties in relation to the vote, who adds or withdraws ballots or votes when counting or otherwise amends the number of ballots or votes or publishes a false result of the vote, will be fined or jailed for up to three years. "Why is this minimum so low in relation to other crimes, why is this difference made, what is the explanation for it? Is it thought that perhaps, in some subsequent elections, such a procedure is being tolerated again? I don't think it's likely that it wasn't the proposalor's position, but that's how it comes from this text I read. I think we should pay special attention to that and secure electoral law and sanction better this future law. The second question that is equally politically sensitive is the matter of torture by the authorities, and most often there will be internal affairs authorities and those conducting the investigation. We've had tragic cases and we've had many, many fatalities. The international public is very interested in torture. There is no entry into the EU if it tortures on our militia stations as it has been. And here I am very surprised by the low sentences that have been threatened. It is said, for example, in Article 136: "The official person who uses force or threat or other illicit means or an illicit means in order to extort a statement or any other statement from the accused, witness, expert or other person, will be punished by imprisonment from three months to five years. "Please be nice, the lowest penalty is three years, which allows for parole and our citizen is imprisoned, without witnesses, with several representatives of the authorities who are harassing him, who are using force, threat, etc., and in other members you have a equally difficult health disorder and what I know. On the other hand, the level of the threatened sentence is very low. It is said, "Whoever abuses another or treats him in a way that offends human dignity will be punished by prison until one year. "It's a very low-threat punishment. Without the will to be cynical, but I have to notice, in Article 269, where there's talk of killing and torturing animals, he says -- whoever breaks the rules kills, hurts or tortures an animal, will be punished by imprisonment for up to six months. So the difference between only 6 months between the treatment of our citizens and our animals; no matter how much we love them, but this kind of regulation really does sting our eyes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19795	The People's MP Istvan Ipsanovic has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19796	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I just want to say a few words about the Criminal Code. A series of commendations has already been said here by my predecessors, so I can say by all the parties in this assembly, because it is a modern law. The code means the practical codification of criminal acts, because they were in a very large number of laws, and I think it will be a great help to those who apply this criminal code every day. Incidentally, my predecessor also talked about some of the crimes that I want to say, which are crimes against election rights. Those crimes were partly covered by election laws, some of them existed, some of them not. I also think, given my experience over the past 15 years, that these sanctions really aren't enough, that they should have been much sharper and, in practice, in some laws, I think it's going to be very difficult to apply these standards. I will, for example, mention the crime of assembling incorrect voter lists. This is Article 158. The bill, which reads: "Whoever, in order to influence the results of the elections or the referendum, makes up an incorrect voter's list, will be punished," and there is also the fine, a fine, "or a prison of up to three years. "Why do I mention this crime? I don't know if the billmaker knows exactly how to make up the electoral list. The electoral list is not made so that that official in the municipality writes some names in that ballot. Falsifying the results using the electoral list is not done as this crime is sanctioned here. Namely, that official in the municipality who runs the electoral list every name, every entry, every erasure, every change works on the basis of one document. So, not at all, and that's not the problem, that clerk will always write it right. I don't know the practice of others, but my experience is that this clerk has never falsified a voter's list. The counterfeit was done in another way, so that there were brigades that visited polling stations. They were registered for a particular polling post the day before the voter list was concluded. They received falsified IDs and went from one to the next, the third voter list, because there was no single polling list at the country level, because it would be discovered immediately, but it was done so that someone voted in ten, 15 or 20 polling stations, and thus the result was tailored. Therefore, the danger exists, but not that the official who makes the polling list in the municipality will falsify the results, but the problem arises when he gets the wrong information, i.e. falsify data that allows some people to vote multiple times. In this criminal act, since hopefully one day we will have this unique or aggregate electoral list for the whole country, there is another danger that needs to be sanctioned. Namely, there is a danger of data abuse on that pooling voter list. Namely, it will be on one disk and whoever has that disk will practically have all the personal information about all the full-time citizens of this country. So he has data on the date of birth, the place of residence and so on, and that can be misused. In this criminal act, Article 158 should provide for the prevention of the abuse of such data that one will eventually have and be able to abuse. Another crime was cited here, and that's Article 161, that's falsifying the election results. I also speak from my experience. We had many such cases in some past elections when it was so obvious that the forged results of the election, that all these objections had to be adopted. You had a situation at the time while it could go to the Supreme Court of Serbia that all these objections were rejected, although it was so obvious, that a small child saw there were counterfeits, but the Supreme Court did not respect it. That's why I think falsifying election results should be severely punished. I would also refer to another member of the law, which is the killing and torture of animals, i.e. Article 269, where it is prescribed - who, by breaking the rules, kills, hurt or torments the animal, will be punished in that way and so on. I think we're gonna have a lot of trouble applying this member here. It is clear to me why the legislator prescribed "who by breaking the rules", however, there are such injuries and torture of animals that no regulation prohibits. You should still punish all that. Recently, in a neighboring country, hanged young men tied a dog to a car and tried how a dog could monitor the acceleration, or movement of a vehicle. These hanged young men are punished by unconditional imprisonment. Namely, they dragged the animal by car until the animal died. That act under this law cannot be sanctioned with us. Namely, it's not a violation of any regulations. I can beat my dog and kill him, and I can't answer for it, because it's not sanctioned. I would also warn of the position of 2nd of this same member, where it is envisaged – whoever kills, tortures and hurts a number of animals, or animals that are protected. I think in this attitude we should predict and kill in an extremely cruel way. So it's the same qualified form of this part. I'd still like to say something about a crime that practically doesn't exist and can't be taken under this crime that I've been talking about before, which is fighting animals, preventing animal fighting. I don't know if you've had a chance to watch, recently I've watched this movie train fighting dogs and what it looks like to fight dogs to death, to the death of one of those dogs who participate in the fight. It's so hard to watch, it's such a cruel way, firstly, to train animals to fight, and secondly, the way these animals fight. I think it would be necessary to provide for a ban on animal fighting in the context of this crime or in particular criminal act. Maybe that's not so widespread with us. I know some dog fights are being staged in Vojvodina. Maybe it's not that wide in the country yet. But I think it's the only way to prevent such fights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19797	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic, and let the MP Nikola Milosevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19798	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think once again the unseriousness of the ruling coalition has been shown. I don't think it's appropriate for us to discuss five of these important laws, from such an important area of criminal law and criminal law, to unite and to discuss here just five hours of something that will, in a very serious way, affect the lives of all our citizens in the future. This is about limiting certain freedoms and rights. I think that definitely this topic should have been devoted a little bit more time, a team before today's debate is extended, so at least you could let those of us who have seriously prepared ourselves for these laws and who really take seriously the freedoms and rights of citizens to at least discuss how much we want, with or without you, because, of course, you are no longer obliged to sit in this room. Unfortunately, about 400 amendments have been filed on these laws. We heard about 50% was adopted somewhere. It already, in itself, clearly enough says that there are many inaccuracies and inaccuracies in these laws. A lot of amendments have also been submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. One can be made that some amendments, although quite accepted, may not be very important, that it is a termological difference, that this is a difference in one or two words, but even though some other laws may allow the law to contain some wrong formulation, when criminal law comes to any point, it can mean a lot and the maximum attention must be paid to each member. That is why the debate, especially with regard to Serbian Radical Party MPs, will be more focused on the work itself in particular and on amendments, as only on concrete examples here can explain what it is that we have been looking for with our amendments. However, we do not have a review of all the amendments that have been accepted and therefore, if you have accepted about 200 amendments, then it is very difficult to discuss at all in principle, without information on whether what we are now discussing has already been changed by any of our interventions or not. I repeat, we'll tell you more about the details. I am also surprised that today's debate, as far as I can see, is not attended by many MPs, if at all, in front of the Democratic Party. Why aren't they interested in this debate, I really don't know. Perhaps because of all the "reforms" they've carried out during their term of office, in connection with criminal law. Maybe it's because of what they did during their famous "Sabre". Perhaps because someone would not mention to them that the Supreme Court judge Vukkovic, who was arrested, was elected during their term of office, was not elected by the Assembly. Also, Milan Radovanovic, the deputy special prosecutor, who was arrested, was proposed by the government of the Republic of Serbia during the mandate of the "democratic" government. Whether it's because of some other disagreements, I really don't know, but I repeat, it's a miracle. Maybe they'd better be here and answer us. Another great example of what and how this government did in its time. Here's the find of the expert on the criminal charges filed in 2005, and launched during the presidential campaign. The Serbian Radical Party candidate was then president of the party, Prof. Vojislav Seselj. Since they had absolutely nothing to object to any of the SRS ministers, then they used different lies and pranks, they placed criminal charges, not in courts, but on the first and second RTS daily. The charges have been piling up on information programs and it's been repeated from day to day, but of these criminal charges, of course, nothing happened. They were all rejected very quickly, if they had passed that deadline and the reason they were written. Here, some of them even ran the findings. It is the deputy public prosecutor from the Second Municipal Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, Branko Stamenkovic, against whom Dragan Todorovic also filed several private criminal charges. We also asked experts to determine what his mental state is, whether he's capable of doing business at all, and whether he's capable of acting as deputy public prosecutor. I'll read you just a few sentences from the expert's conclusion, so I won't burden you with these millions, whose embezzlement has been accused Dragan Todorovic and Ratko Marketic, ministers from the Serb Radical Party. The expert says: "The expert believes that there is no criminal responsibility for the indictees Todorovic Dragan and Marcetic Ratka of Article 245nd position 2. The criminal law of the Republic of Serbia, because the account was paid out of the transferred funds of ZTP Belgrade in a separate account, from which the bills were made payments, does not therefore mean that the funds were spent contrary to the Regulation on terms, criteria and how the funds were used for the regular and safe conduct of rail traffic. For the money spent on drinking and thermal water and for the construction of an idea project there is agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia, and payment was made from the paid funds of 0.35 dinars under the oil derivatives regulation, which were paid into an account. The expert's opinion is based on documentation in the case file, on an interview with inspectors and direct insight into the documentation of ZTP Belgrade, as well as a written explanation by the Belgrade ZTP professional service." So you can absolutely see from the expert's opinion that there is no indication that a crime has been committed and it is clear that these people who have written such criminal charges have done so for daily-political purposes and for the purpose of dealing with political opponents. As far as the laws themselves are concerned, I will try to list a few of the things the Serbian Radical Party advocated. First of all, as far as law enforcement of criminal sanctions is concerned, we tried to modernise some of this law of ours, even to accept some of the so-called solutions. more developed countries. It is very important that Article 136(2) of the Law provides for a measure of loneliness, according to a convicted person who is at risk of escape, violent behavior, self-injurement or endangerment of the order and security of another species. So this measure can be determined, but this general formulation absolutely enables exceptional abuses. When a position 2 is read, where it is said that the application of special measures determines the manager of the institution or the person he has authorized, then it is clear that the circle of the person who can express this extremely difficult measure per man's psyche, and in any other way, is virtually unlimited. Thus, this right was once the sole minister in charge of the affairs of the judiciary, and now, under the new law, it is the right to give it to prison managers, or to any person who has the authority to impose such a measure. When you say that the measure can be determined by a convicted person who is at risk of escape, is there any convicted for whom there is no danger of escape or danger of violent behavior, self-injuring or endangering the order and security of another species? First of all, it should be borne in mind that this is about perpetrators of criminal acts, that these are crimes that are more serious in nature, more serious crimes, because those perpetrators who commit crimes for which a lesser sentence of prison is threatened, or there are particularly extenuating circumstances in principle very rarely end up in prison. So when it comes to people who have been convicted multiple times or who have committed more serious crimes, then certainly any person ever found in prison can apply this measure. This measure can also be abused in many ways, as it is clear that absolutely every person can be swept under this general standard. I think that it should limit the application of this extremely difficult measure and that it should be placed under some kind of control or completely deleted, in line with some European flows. In the case of classification of convicted persons, e.g. in Article 63, the Serbian Radical Party's proposal is to classify the convicts on the basis of personal properties, based on a type of crime, sentence, earlier convictions and other criteria. What's fundamental is the personal properties of convicts; will you put someone in the same room who's here for a traffic violation along with a mass murderer? I think there's a lot more to be taken care of when sorting out convicts. Otherwise, we're in danger of this sentence of prison and the time that a person spends in prison, instead of acting favorably on his further life and future behavior, instead of some resociation that should be one of the basic purposes of imprisonment, we're getting from someone who's been committing some kind of crime to literally through that some socializing with the perpetrators of serious crimes, you're practically making him an even worse criminal than he was when he came to prison. A lot of weathering inaccuracies exist in the law on minor offenders and the criminal protection of minors. Already in the first member of the Serbian Radical Party, it suggested that this term that you have used "underage perpetrators of criminal acts" be replaced by the term "young people being prosecuted", because you cannot in the first member of the law that deals at all with the criminal processing of minors say in advance that they are perpetrators of criminal acts. Then absolutely further provisions are neither necessary, or only possible provisions on measuring the penalty or to say – that we will blame those who are already wrong in advance and why we should judge someone who is guilty in the first place. As far as the criminal code is concerned... I'll say something about every law, because it's a really short time. There are a lot of changes in criminal law, but it seems to me that the promoter did not find the best measure in reducing, or increasing, threatened penalties. It is clear that in practice this leads to different treatment and to different penalties for the same actions. It's too big a range between punishments. We haven't had bad laws so far, and it's not true that the fines were threatened. The problem is that the penalties that have been imposed are mostly closer to the minimum that is being threatened and that in most cases they go either to a minimum or even to a conditional conviction. Therefore, it was not necessary to increase those penalties but rather to influence through the case law that e.g. For some average act, the average penalty will be imposed, for harder forms of greater time penalties. The only thing that needed to be done was to apply the law. This way we've got bigger ranges and we don't have any guarantee that the future law will be applied, but there's only the danger that again one of the perpetrators of the crime will get a minimum, which is for example. Three years, and someone else will get 15 years in prison for the same act under the same circumstances. I don't think that's a good thing, and some crimes should've been reduced before. In crimes against the SCG Army, the right to tell you, I've looked forward to that part, given everything you've done in the previous period. Just look at the names of these crimes: avoiding military obligations, avoiding lists and reviews, non-execution of material obligations, avoidance of military service, and not talking about helping the enemy, etc. Knowing how many problems the state had during the previous period, knowing that there were many who had avoided the military obligation, who had fled across the border during the NATO Pact's aggression on Serbia-Montenegro and in view of the end that they were all abolized, the question of what further these provisions serve, how during the peacetime state you would apply these provisions if you did not apply them during the war. I think the good part of these crimes has become pointless, because punishments either had to be applied or crimes erased. The worst thing is when you have crimes in the law, and you don't apply the law or apply it selectively. One more thing about fines. I think these provisions are absolutely incomprehensible and unusable, especially those relating to a fine in daily amounts. "The penalty in daily amounts is measured by first establishing the number of daily amounts and then the amount of one daily amount." Be careful how it is determined: "The amount of one daily amount of fine is determined by dividing the difference between income and expenditure of the perpetrator in the last calendar year by the number of days per year. "One daily amount can't be this big or that much... But is it possible that someone thinks that a court can determine in the course of a criminal trial what the criminal's income was during the previous year? So, the court has to determine, I don't know what methods and means, how much someone's income in the previous year, how much expenditure, and I need to make sure that most of the crimes are committed when a certain period of time goes by, first of all, until the perpetrators are discovered, while an investigative and investigative procedure is carried out, and only when the criminal proceedings are committed very often since the execution of the crime itself has been carried out in a few years. How will you, especially those who appear more often in court and who are repeatedly convicted and lead a criminal life, determine their incomes and expenses?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19799	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Representatives of all parliamentary groups are present in the O.R., so let's not use that replica. Here's a replica to the mention of the DS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19800	counterpart Sarovic, if he followed the debate, saw MPs from the Democratic Party participate just as much as MPs from other parties in the debate on the subject. But that's not why I answered, but I think it's a malicious commitment of any judge to any political party, because if we look at the choice of judges in this assembly, we can find out that individual judges have been elected or have not been elected thanks to the votes of the Serbian Radical Party or the Democratic Party or any other party. I don't know when Judge Vukevic was elected Judge of the Supreme Court, but what he's suspected of has nothing to do with the Democratic Party, and I think this really was a malicious connection.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19801	Thank you, all MPs have spoken of this unanimously. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Sarovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19802	Article 104 and 101, Mr. Markovic, were injured. First of all, I have to say that you can't say that certain judges can't connect with this party or that party, because of course that's not true. You say you don't know when someone was elected and whether they were elected by the votes of the Serbian Radical Party or any other party. It is normal that all those judges and deputies elected in the Assembly are chosen by some votes; they can never be just SRS votes, but more parliamentary groups, and then the consensus on someone's election means something again. But the specificity that is related to the deputy special prosecutor is that he was not elected by this parliament, but was appointed by Natasa Micic. Therefore, the lady in question is from the D.S. Parliament's list. You all know the laws you made during "Sablje" that no longer required the Assembly, that the prosecutors were proposed by the government, that they were appointed by the government, or the deputy public prosecutors, and then you can, because they are directly appointed persons by a particular party, say that the party bears responsibility for the appointment of a person. So there's nothing malicious about it, it's absolutely all the facts that are very easily verifiable. The fact that you don't like that these people that you directly put caught in crime, that's another thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19803	Sarovic, there is nothing offensive, of course, as there is no violation of the Rules of Procedure by Articles 104 and 101, in no way. The Messenger of the people is Nikola Milosevic, and then the Messenger of the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go, Professor Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19804	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in one of his discussions, Karl Popper wrote that we do not need as many good men as we need good institutions. His words could be paraphrased like this – we do not need good people as much as we need good laws. There was also a certain anthropology behind his words, therefore, an assumption expressed in that winged Lord Akton that every authority is corrupting, and absolute power is ruining almost absolutely. So, the best man, if there are no restrictions in the laws, will be inclined to abuse his powers. An example from Roman history: the most expendable and best Roman emperor was Marko Aurelius, but it was this emperor who abolished the so - called so - called Roman emperor. The law of adaptation and the heir appointed his son Commoda, who was no better than the worst Roman bloodlocks of emperors, such as Nero and Caligula. The law of adaptation was passed by the Roman Senate in order to limit the will of the Roman emperors. But since the emperor was not limited by any law, he could, of course, abolish the Law of Adaptation, which Mark Aurelius did. However, at the time of the Republican Rome, to remember that too, the wise Roman lawyers knew that if, in exceptional circumstances, such as wartime, someone was given great authority, they must be legally restricted. So whoever called himself a dictator in Roman times, after six months, because his power was time-armed, had to return to the Roman Senate, he couldn't declare wars, handle the state register, and the existing laws could only suspend, not bring new ones. When Karl Marks later formulated that idea of his, so-called. dictatorships of proletariat, on which the legal system of the so-called legal system is established. The socialist states, he actually, under the concept of dictatorship, meant what's called despotia, because Marks neither timed the duration of so-called. Neither did he limit the dictatorship by any law, so it was really a despotia, not a dictatorship. I want to draw your attention to one key difference between totalitarian and liberal criminal legislation. I would formulate it this way: totalitarian legislation has been adjusted in such a way that it does not come through evidence of some truth in criminal proceedings, but through a series of forced measures to extorted recognition. Liberal legislation aims to reach the truth through a series of legal measures, based on evidence, and recognition can and does not have to be a condition for the truth to come. Here's what it looked like in practice. This totalitarian form of criminal law has been established by the Inquisition. For the Inquisitors, it was important for the heretic to admit that he was a heretic, and the evidence was not necessary. To extort confession, heretics are thrown into prison, deprived of any contact with the world, he has no right to defend him. If it doesn't lead to extorted confession, then they either roasted it on the crane, or they fed it with water until he confessed to what was asked of it, or they stretched his limbs, or they put so-called. "Spanish boot." But back then, the one-domestic, author of the Inquisitors Manual, wrote that there is not much to be trusted in a confession that has been coerced by force, because he says that someone will persist in their stubbornness and not admit anything, someone will Google, and someone who is weak, and of course has the most, will admit everything you ask of him. Many centuries later, this totalitarian criminal practice and theory came back to life in the Soviet Union. The confession was both basic and the only way to get to the truth allegedly. Here were the consequences in practice, to entertain you with one example of that time: Moses Moses, who was the native brother of Lazar Kaganovich, otherwise a member of Stalin's Politburo, was accused of negotiating with the Germans and of being predicted by the Germans as president of the Quislin government of the Nazis, when they rule over the Soviet Union. In addition, he was accused of deliberately building airports near the border of the Soviet Union so that the Nazis could easily destroy Soviet planes. To what extent this accusation was not only absurd but also foolishly judged by the name of this man – Moses the Moses. He was Jewish. It's absurd and stupid to suspect a Jew that he and the Nazis have reached an agreement that he will be head of the Quislin government and will even build airports so that the Nazis can destroy as many Soviet planes as possible. But this same Moses Moses, isolated from the world, eventually admitted this completely absurd and, I repeat, stupid accusation. Now let me mention an example from our recent history: an operation called "Sabre." The operation was legally designed by Vladan Batic, the then minister of justice and the doctor of law. This doctor of law, for example, did not, besides, know how to distinguish between martial law and war. For an operation called "Sabbe" he claimed was the introduction of a state of emergency. However, the state of emergency, it's a textbook truth, can only be introduced in one part of state territory, not in the whole territory; it's number one. Under number two, during an emergency, all legal guarantees and legal standards cannot be abolished. Then how was this whole operation set up? She was set up in the best traditions of the Soviet criminal proceedings. So, only the defendant's confession, all the measures aimed at him confessing and extorting himself, they didn't care about the evidence at all. Here's what all the measures were taken at the time of that operation. First, the arrester was full for 60 days, which could be extended for another 30 days, was deprived of the opportunity to get a lawyer, to talk to him, to receive any visits, even the closest relatives, to telephone, to write and read the press. It was a kind of mental torture. Anyone who belonged, according to that definition of the Dominican, the writer of the Inquisitors manual, among the people of the weaker nervous system, there are many of them, in order to get rid of that mental torture he was willing to admit whatever was required of him. When a prisoner is mentally and physically isolated like this, then space is open for tortures of other species. So, for example, the painter Tapi was subjected to that torture with a nylon cap. Since a man had a weak heart, he exhaled on the spot. A certain Ilic named Limar, the late Spasojevic, in the presence of then Deputy Prime Minister Ceda Jovanovic, wrapped his nose with wooden pliers. So that's what it was. Of course, during the same operation, Sabela was used other means of extorting recognition, so for example, Nikola Kawai, otherwise the unfathomable assassin on Joseph Broz, had been tied to a bench for 12 days. So these were all the measures and conditions, which were practiced both at the time of the Inquisition and at the time of Stalin's Soviet Union. Only one measure has not been introduced - the death penalty. However, the doctor of law, whom I have already mentioned, Vladan Batic, like any good Christian, sought to fill that void, demanded the introduction of the death penalty. It did not go through, they say, the interference of some foreign ambassadors who estimated that the government, which they supported, would compromise too much. That's why I think one of the great advantages of this criminal law proposal is just to predict the measures that would make it impossible for a mental torture against the people who are being held captive. On the first day, whoever was arrested has the right to call his next of kin, to contact his next of kin. He has the right to defend himself, he has the right to write, he has the right to telephone, and I don't think he's underestimating, he has the right to read the press. So that's how the possibility of mental torture is going. Likewise, sanctions are provided for those who abuse, and by extortion, they force them to grant recognitions, although these sanctions could be even more severe. In general, I can only welcome this criminal code project and support it. But I have one remark, which I would be free to present to you. That remark concerns the part in which the genocide is mentioned. This is Article 370. First, let me draw your attention to the fact that there is an old logical rule for definitions, which says, "Definition can't be too narrow, but it can't be too wide." When someone says that some definition is expanded, it's not expanded, it's distorted, it's betrayed. The very word genocide comes from two Latin words: gens, which means gender, caedera, which means killing. So, the word genocide means killing, or physically destroying an entire tribe, tribe or species, whatever you want, regardless of all gender differences and age differences. If we upgrade that definition a little bit, we could say that for today's occasions genocide would be designed and in practice the realized physical destruction of all members of a single nation, or ethnic group. So any attempt to extend this definition means her failure. It has been extended, or failed, to the practical and political purposes of The Hague Court. As the Hague court's task is to prove for the Serb side that she was committing genocide and that what was in Srebrenica, therefore, the chronic evidence of genocide, the definition itself, has been failed. Because if a female part of the Muslim population was deported in Srebrenica and, of course, children, like the old, could not possibly have been genocide, therefore, the deliberate killing of all members of a nation. I was free to draw attention to that. Here, to explain my objection to Article 370, under the heading - Genocide, which says: "... or put the group in such living conditions that lead to the full or partial extinction of the group... ". Complete - it's genocide, partial - it's not genocide. So it can't be in the same provision, in the same article, under the genocide company actually implies what isn't genocide. Article 371, under the heading - Crime against humanity, says: "... Putting the population or one part of it into such living conditions that lead to their total or partial extinction." If it's complete, it should be transferred to Article 370. If it's partial, it could belong to Article 371 - crime against humanity. I think that, just to be critical of the false definition of genocide, which we are looking at by the Hague Court and their prisoners here, we should do something to bring these two members into line with the true definition of genocide. Without keeping your attention, I'd limit myself to another short parallel. It is understood that it is very important to apply such good laws, but it is equally important for them to be implemented in the work. Unfortunately, this country is exposed to the pressure of great forces, which has its own repercussions and when it comes to the application of legal sanctions here in our country. We all remember that Natasa Kandic hit a Serb from Kosovo in public. I don't know if we all know, I'm afraid a lot of people don't know, that on the occasion that lady said she was very sorry that she didn't get to slap someone else. I don't know if it's familiar to anyone, that when the police asked this lady to legislate, she refused (infraction, of course), and when they asked her to step away she refused to do so and continued to insult the audience. Why would I bring that up? Because the same Natasa Kandic was prosecuted only on the private suit of the man she slapped, the violation of the SUP seems to have failed to file against her, and if she was filed there was nothing, and the competent court ruled that she was not guilty of anything at all. For this offense, no single dinar has been punished. I can't shake the impression that it's because Mrs. Kandic has the support of a powerful foreign force, and it's known which side of force is it, and then it's supposed to be that she with such high protection shouldn't be responsible for what citizens of that same force would have to answer for, and that according to their laws. Now allow me, parallels for the sake of a case of one critic of the ideology of Mrs. Kandic and those who accept this ideology and promote here. I'm sorry, I hope you don't mind. That critic is me. In its own time, and this is probably where the MPs here will remember, the Sava Centre is prevented from promoting a book, and on that occasion the boys of the Democratic Party, the Civil League, the Centre of Dragoljub Micunovic and Ceda Jovanovic surrounded the table at which I sat and shouted that I was a Ustasha, the greatest evil in Serbia, that I would only live for two more years. After that, they wrote me big letters, auto-light, word, idiot. City SUP, not me, didn't file a private suit, launched an investigation. What did the investigation look like? Like this: The coroner calls me and leaves me waiting for an hour. Of course, I'm a disciplined citizen, I respect the laws, but you know what, I couldn't wait more than an hour. Epilog: The city's SUP closes that investigation, as if nothing had happened, although it had a TV footage of these guys, very lively human rights fighters and what they were doing there at the Media Center. It's not the end of my story. Somehow after that, one of the leaders of NGOs in an interview with Politics told me: that the criticism of these organizations would come back to me. Whether or not you're judging yourself, I had to buy a new door. But the top lock on that door doesn't work. I call a locksmith from a company where Sam bought a lock, opens a lock, looks and says: I haven't seen this yet, pours you a super glue. The idea of these human rights fighters, they see it that way, was about this: if I tried to close the lock inside, the super glue hardens, and I can't get out. Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I sincerely hope so, and I believe I am not mistaken, that this group of laws or sets, as they say, will do something to help even criticise, even NGOs, not take on the head of the critic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19805	Thank you, Professor Milosevic. The People's Messenger has the Word of the Prophet, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, and then the Messenger of the people of Zivodar, Dacin. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19806	Today, for who knows which time, we have in place a sort of arrogance of the ruling majority that is expressed in that, gentlemen, you have easily accepted the proposal to discuss five such important laws in a united debate. Indeed, I don't know how the rest of you do, but I, as a lawyer and a man of the profession, am not able to speak within a limited period of time about these laws, or the draft laws individually, or simply impossible to conduct some serious debate on these laws. You will agree, I hope, that the importance of these laws was such that it was most likely that for at least a week we were discussing each of these laws individually so that we could really hear arguments for and against, since these are laws that are not often passed, some are for the first time in our legal practice. I think Serbian Radical Party MPs certainly share my opinion, but I think the others do, regardless of what they voted for to bring this debate together. Anyway, those who voted for a united debate aren't here today. They were there to press the green key for that proposal and they don't care what happens next with these suggestions. Dear colleagues, that's not good. It's not good, because these are laws that will really touch anyone, one way or another, and that's why one more serious approach to these proposals was needed. We have these laws somewhere since October 18th last year in congregation material. After all this time, we need to talk about it for so long, and then there's a lot of praise here. Of course, it's not as great as trying to introduce itself to the peoples and citizens of Serbia. So maybe I'll talk a little differently than the other colleagues about these suggestions. The proposal for a criminal law -- here it's said that this is coded matter; it really is, but there is another problem. Remember, a year and two years ago, when we passed all kinds of laws that envisioned various crimes, that we Serbian radicals warned the minister of justice not to propose such laws, that there should be one codified criminal code. Now I wonder if we would be able to look at all these laws in detail with various criminal acts that were adopted in this House, whether all these crimes are in this so-called today. A codified criminal code. The right to tell you, I don't believe. The proposal for a criminal code that we have in front of us and which has 432 members is essentially a proposal of the Serbian Radical Party of 1999 and 2000, from a time when counterpart Petar Jojic, then federal justice minister, and Toma Nikolic and Maja Gojkovic, then vice-president of the federal government, after about a year and a half, with a group of experts, gave in the procedure almost identical legislation to the one we have adopted today. That proposal was then passed by the federal government. In the meantime, elections took place, so you know how everything went to the bulldozer of the revolution. This law has 432 members, and 384 members are literally copied from the law I speak of and talked about by my colleague Jojic. Why did a large number of amendments by the Serbian Radical Party appear? I think we had, Pero, about 200 amendments, right? Why? Because the minister, the government and the co-workers are ministers, that it would not be great to give an absolutely identical text of the law which, since 2000, is therefore the work of the SRS and of our experts, so that it would not be absolutely identical, have corrupted the proposal with some different solutions. Then, as a representative of the government, when we discussed the amendments, the minister realized that he had to accept these amendments to get some comprehensive text. That's the real truth about this bill. When counterpart Jojic mentioned today the fact that this law is almost identical to the one he wrote personally with Mr Nikolic, Maja Gojkovic and still with a group of associates, then I saw, I was honest and I saw a very bold and cynical laugh by some colleagues I had just told in front of the hall if they did not believe the Serbian Radical Party, let them not vote for this law. Of course, these colleagues, who are both half-years and in politics young, cannot understand, but they will understand, we will show; besides, look at the archives of the then federal government, surely there is a proposal in the archive of this law. That's why we in the SRS don't have any excessive objections to this law, and in order for us to have them, at least in the part where our law is in fact, but there are a number of amendments that are not accepted and which significantly spoil the text of the criminal code. That's what we'll talk about when it comes to the law in particular. And if I did, I wouldn't be able to talk about it right now, because I don't even know how many amendments were accepted and nobody here knows who's accepted or who isn't. I expected that by the start of this debate we would have one review to know exactly what was accepted by the proposing representatives and what was not accepted. You know, I'm a member of the Justice and Administration Committee; one day I was with my colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party taking part in the work of that committee, and then, of course, we knew what was accepted and what was not accepted, but after that we didn't participate in the work of the Committee, because we of the SRS opposed the Rules of Procedure who asked that the MP should be half here and half in some other hall on some committee. We think the seat of the MP is here in this room, and on committees at a time when we don't work in this room. So it was not clear to me why we sat outside the hall for an hour today, since the congregation majority did not provide the majority for the start of today, why we did not have a Committee on Justice and Administration, but it began when we started working in this room. These are reasons why we do not have accurate information on what amendments of the Serbian Radical Party to this criminal code proposal have been adopted. Today, the minister thanked the MPs here several times for their co-operation, for the amendments submitted, for their understanding. I don't think there was any need; as far as the MPs of the SRS are concerned, we're doing our job the way we think it's best, we're putting up with the amendments where we think they should be submitted. And the minister's proposal received 200 amendments, so he accepted two-thirds of those amendments, not exactly praise him. There are still amendments to this law that have not been adopted, and other drafts of the law, so when we talk about the laws in particular, then we will certainly talk more about all these proposals. I will now say one sentence at a time about each of these laws, more so as to read out loud what significant laws we are discussing in such short and limited time, and even with the threat at the beginning of work that we will continue to work until this debate is over. Then again another day we'll go home at 10:00 or 11:00, and today we'll be working on who knows when, probably so the MPs will lose their patience and leave this room and give up the discussion. But it seems to me that it happens in some other parliamentary groups, in order for me to have it, but we in the SRS are known to be persistent; as far as we're concerned, you can do 72 hours uninterrupted, we do not give up and we do not give up on what we want to say. The draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, we spoke on the Committee, is a completely unnecessary law. This wasn't even supposed to be in the process, and this isn't supposed to be adopted. The law should not be passed because of one of Serbia's Supreme Court's most radical stances. We tried to explain it to the minister, but there seems to be no success. We'll see if you'll vote on this proposal in the voting day. Next, we have a bill on juvenile offenders and criminal protection of minors. Indeed, I must not allow myself the luxury of talking for a minute or two about such a significant law, but when we look at only this first member, you will see, if you look at it and if you look at it, that a drastic mistake has already been made at first when it is said that this law contains provisions that apply to minors. This is where it had to be said to refer to juveniles being prosecuted. I guess for minors, too, there's gotta be a presummation of innocence. I cannot believe that in the bill of this law you accepted the views of NGOs when it comes to Hague indictees, because Natasa Kandic, Biserko and other human rights guards are calling anyone indicted in The Hague a war crimes offender. It simply makes me feel that this article is one. The draft law on minor offenders and the criminal protection of minors has been passed through the hands of some NGOs, since a recognised principle of presummation of innocence has not been applied long ago and has not been entered into the first member of this law. A programme to protect participants in criminal proceedings, it's a special story and we all know what the reason is and why this law is even being passed. You already have a series of protected witnesses who are willing to lie to protect themselves. That's what they do, the whole public in Serbia knows, and now there's a law that specifically regulates this matter. I'm just going to refer here to article 7 that talks about the Commission for the Implementation of the Protection Programme. It is said: "The decision on inclusion, extension, suspension and termination of the protection programme shall be taken by the Commission for the implementation of the programme of protection, which has three members. One member of the commission is appointed by Serbia's Supreme Court Judges President of the Supreme Court of Serbia, the second member is appointed by the Republic Public Prosecutor, and the head of the protection unit is a member of the commission in position. "I ask you, dear colleagues, after your extraordinary session on Friday, is there any guarantee to us that someone is the Supreme Court judge or is he a deputy prosecutor? And today I heard and these days I read about the newspaper that the Assembly unanimously took away immunity from these unfortunate people, Vukkovic and Milovan Radovanovic. It is true, we unanimously made that decision and it is logical that this decision be unanimous, but there is no reason to be happy about the fact that at the top, because the Supreme Court is a drop of Serbian justice, a criminal judge has appeared, or has discovered, and how many others there are. So, the special prosecutor, his deputy, the razor blade "Sablje", remember, the Serbian government then elected him as deputy special prosecutor, and he's a criminal. Now we need to be pleased that this witness protection committee will make up people from the top, the Supreme Court, the prosecution and so on. There are many problems in the area of justice and, unfortunately, not all can be dealt with by law, not even by good laws. There's a lot more trouble in the judiciary on the subject of personnel. This is what we Serbian radicals have been talking about long ago, but it seems that you who support the government and who are the congregation majority do not share our opinion. You still think that there is room and need for some party officials to be placed in courts, but believe me, everything will come back to you, just like this Vuckovic and Milan Radovanovic are beating their heads off for those who chose them at the time of the "Sabbe" action. In the end, we have a bill to enforce criminal sanctions. These days, they're full of newspapers, full of media, and what happened to this judge and the D.A. is again tied to the execution of criminal sanctions. Imagine the amazing fact that hard prisoners walk with cell phones, communicate with the rest of the world's cell phones. Running away from prison was also present. It's hardly that we and this law are going to make any more significant shifts. And here you need a system change. You won't change the situation in prisons because you predicted the existence of a single woman, not to mention the dungeons. Who needs that? We're not going back to the Middle Ages, are we? Do you look again at these Hague inquisitors who hold the president of the Serbian Radical Party in some special department that does not belong to the UN at all, but is part of the Dutch prison for their regular prisoners. Why do you always boast of something so revolutionary, and each time it's something that's very backwards, which destroys fundamental human rights and freedoms. Don't just go out for this pay phone and talk about you being human rights fighters, and then predict solitarys for prisoners, etc. So we Serbian radicals, as you've heard, have a lot of objections to all these bill proposals. We expect a broader debate when we talk about proposals for laws in particular. We truly believe that we will come to an understanding, if not of the minister, then the assembly majority will accept our proposals for preparing these legal texts.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19807	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, The Life-giving Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19808	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, would it be normal for citizens in their country to seek and receive protection of their rights, or would it be more normal for a large number of Serbian citizens to be forced to address the International Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg? Are we, as MPs, the ones responsible for the passing of certain laws, and how can we affect the change of the better? I think so. If we all know that, unfortunately, in all trials, Serbian citizens do not trust the institutions, here, I propose that we, as MPs, as representatives of the legislative authority, restore citizens' confidence in the institutions first. I'd say you all assume what I want to talk about. Criminal law has over 400 members. Why not? Whenever there's a phenomenon and we see that it's not in the criminal code, why don't we be the ones who put it in some of our amendments? I tried to correct this injustice on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group in 2002. I didn't make it. At the time, I had strong promises from then Minister Batic. I was disappointed because not only did he not accept it, but even the congregation majority rejected the amendment. Today there is Minister Stojkovic. To be honest, first of all, I'm sorry that he's not here, secondly, I was convinced that he would adopt these amendments on the Justice Committee and allow at least 3,000 families to come to their truth. I'm not saying what is true, I'm not saying which side will end up being true, but I'm sure of one thing – people must be allowed to come to the truth. Why have all their doors always been closed? Of course, because criminal law does not foresee the possibility of reaching the truth about what happened to their newborn children in maternity homes throughout Serbia. You know that the Survey Committee is working intensively these days. I'm not going to tell you this, but you should hear these people, hear how many arguments they have, who really give them the right to turn to our courts and come to their truth. They don't claim either, they just want their truth. We, members of the Survey Committee, also do not claim either, we want to allow these people to come to the truth, however it may be. It's certain that many of them may be disappointed, perhaps all of them, who knows who's right about that. Let me tell you one more thing: don't think that in any way subjectively, because of the place I'm on the Survey Committee, I'm putting these families aside. I just want to make it possible for these people to get to the truth, because motherhood can never get old. Who's the one in this room who's going to say that motherhood is getting old, that only war crime and genocide don't go out of date? We just heard from Professor Milosevic an exact interpretation of the word genocide. Could it be a genocide for a family? Is it necessary to leave people to, according to Criminal Law, Articles 116 and 117 relating to the change of family status, to grow old within 10 years, to get the prosecutions back? Please, we are making it even more possible for these people to rightly doubt all of us and all the institutions. I really ask that we all stand together only by the truth, and I would say justice, because there are some places where so far existing laws are extremely quality and good, and whether all people are acting responsiblely by them, let them be proven. Let's not let this go without an echo this time. I don't think Minister Stojkovic, unfortunately for me, but that says in favor of everything, that we can't trust unreservedly... I was almost certain and convinced that we would have the understanding of the minister and that he would be in the interest of the courts and the prosecution doing their job to the end, to say that there is no crime like this. I'm not saying there is one, but if we don't install this phenomenon, which is evident in our society, not in the last two or three years, the first dates are in 1959. I was convinced that one objective question would be asked about the problem of retroactivity of the application of this law. And I'd take that as an explanation. Let's put it in this code, so from now on, no one's ever thought of doing anything, if he did. Of course there is a way, and we, as the Committee of Auditors, will report to you, be sure, and it will be the first and only possibly polling committee to report to this assembly, with the recommendations given, we will do everything we can to make peace with those people for whom we cannot possibly apply a new criminal law. We have to do something. This is a large group of people, restoring their trust in the National Assembly and in all institutions and slowly, if we go the right way, there will be no reason for Serbian citizens to no longer believe in their country. I think that would be normal and I'm almost certain that all 250 MPs, regardless of political orientation, want the same thing. We want first all justice and respect for all the laws for ourselves and our families, and then we want to do that to make some other families come to the legal truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19809	The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic. He's not here. The People's Messenger Petar Cvetkovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19810	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since 2001 I have participated in the discussion of amending the criminal law several times, a dozen times, I have been a participant in the debates of amending the law of the domain of the judiciary, in the time of the Sabre, in the weather and in the weather, and today I can say that I am pleased that I will not take away your time, to participate in the debate on today's draft agenda regarding the law in the domain of criminal law. In particular, it is a proposal for a criminal code, a bill on juvenile offenders and the criminal protection of minors, a draft law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, a bill on the protection of participants in criminal proceedings and a very small amendment, or a draft law on amendments and additions to the Code on Criminal Procedure. It is my pleasure to say that this small step towards a law that will be passed, but a very significant step with the help of the government, a very important step in leading the state of Serbia, the SCG state union where it belongs, to the European community of peoples for centuries. These bill proposals are, as before, and I expect, as well as the future to be discussed, modern laws based on the legal tradition of Serbian society, as well as on modern European knowledge of legal science. These laws, especially by criminal code, which has been in the process for almost a year and, as Minister Stojkovic pointed out, in this time of year there was room and if there was any desire for everyone to make an adequate way from a professional point of view to advance the bill and give their amendments. A large number of amendments have been made to the draft laws, especially I am talking about the Code of Criminal Code, one huge part of the amendment has been adopted, as we heard from Mr Stojkovic. I have participated and submitted amendments from the beginning, participated in this process of building the bill and adopting amendments and I can say that the fundamental objections in the current process of passing the law were not and this debate today shows in principle. There are certain objections regarding individual solutions, with regard to certain individual criminal acts, i.e. the proposed methods and the formulations of certain criminal acts, but I would notice that this is a very small part of the criminal code. As you heard, Serbia gets a criminal code for the second time since 1860. The basic idea in the legal theory is that most of the crimes, i.e. the acts of which the state as the holder of the force punishes for unlawful conduct, should be determined by one criminal law, i.e. codified criminal acts, and therefore the criminal law is named as a criminal code. I remember my question in early 2001, when the first amended criminal law addressed to the then minister of justice – when Serbia would get the criminal code, and the answer was – very quickly, in a few months. However, this "very fast" had to wait for such a ruling majority, I would not underline the ruling majority because it is obvious that almost all parliamentary groups would support the bill, Serbia had to wait four years for such a proposal to come on the agenda. This is the basic merit not only of the ruling majority, but also of the government that does much more than it says, it is much more concerned with concrete work and achieving results than with its own propaganda. In addition to those successes that have come in the past days and months, we will be witnesses of the success that will yet come, which will only be recognised by the international community, and especially by the European Union and which will speed up... I deliberately avoid the word reform, because some have used the word reform for years and have done nothing to reform this society and all laws, whose alignment with some basis of European legislation must follow in all countries, both those who are recently members of the European Union and those who will be full members, such as Serbia, or the SCG state union at this point. As I said, the most words of the criminal code today were justified. We get a criminal code, we get a codified criminal code, except for a small part where special laws will provide for certain crimes whose inclusion in the criminal code at this point, due to their minor significance, is not justified. What is not enough today, according to me, marked, is that we will get a new law on juvenile offenders and criminal protection of minors. A smaller number of countries in Europe have particularly criminal law regarding minor crimes. We used to have special heads in the Criminal Code of Procedure against juvenile offenders, as well as in procedural proceedings. The assessment of developed European countries, as well as the people who made this bill, is that our country should pass a special law on minor offenders. This is the first time we've ever been passed a law like this. The solutions of both this law and everyone else are, as I said, in the domain of modern legal theory based on legal tradition in Serbia, by normally putting up a fence, and you will agree with me, that the legal tradition in Serbs is not something of a significant long time, and that in the near and further history of legal solutions we have adopted depending on whether the writer has studied in France, Austria or Germany, so many such solutions are accepted in these laws. I do not want to reduce the legal tradition in Serbia that has been built over the past decades, but I have to join what is said today for this speaker – that the new Criminal Code proposal has moved Serbia one step further from the direct history that was in 2002, 2003 or 1951. This is Mr. Mamula's very detailed explanation, so I would not re-explain this development of criminal law in Serbia. It is also on the agenda to consider the law on enforcement of criminal sanctions, also another law that monitors modern aspirations, which is based on the need to include socially beneficial work in criminal sanctions, and that, as in all modern and developed countries, the accent should be placed on fines. We are aware of the restrictions that exist in Serbia at the moment, but it is an intensity for every praise. And this law will, in its application, be possible, indicate that something needs to be complemented. However, when we basically have a good law that has passed criticism, which has been completed in all institutions and by all well-intentioned ones, we will easily remove any shortcomings, which would prove in its concrete application. Also on the agenda is the draft law on the Programme for the Protection of Participants in Criminal Procedure. This is a matter that was largely unregulated or superficially regulated in our legal texts, so it is also for every commendation of this bill. Finally, the draft law on criminal proceedings is with very small changes, with regard to the jurisdiction of the Security Information Agency, and therefore it is necessary to amend the law. This surrounds one process of adopting criminal laws that, again undermining, the state of Serbia can democratically, responsibly act, create conditions for responsible work, responsible citizens' behaviour, create conditions for a country where all will be equal before the law and the law will be equally harsh for all. In that sense, this Parliament deserves praise, as well as the previous session of parliament, and you know what last Friday was about, as well as all these actions, all the laws and all our efforts are heading towards obtaining a legal, democratic state in which it will be a pleasure to live and in which it will be a citizen.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19811	Thank you, Mr. Cvetkovic. The People's Messenger, Bozidar Koprivica, has the word, and the People's Messenger Milan Markovic, and then the People's Messenger, Djordje Mamula, will be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19812	The honourable MPs, mostly, my predecessors, have presented a large number of praises about the Code of Criminals, although he, I'm sure, does not deserve it. For the sake of truth, the adoption of the criminal code in each country is an important event and should draw public attention, especially to the professional public. That is how it should be with our country, but unfortunately, the divided legislation between the federal state and the republics of the Member States is no longer possible, as the DOS regime and the issuing regime of Milo Djukanovic have destroyed the common state with the Constitutional Charter. Since they have destroyed the common state, you are in a hurry to formally destroy it by adopting all laws, including this criminal code. Dear People's MPs, the only thing that can be praised is that this is the second in the history of the Serbian criminal code, after the 1860 code. For the sake of truth and objectivity, previous numerous changes and additions in the criminal area have violated the integrity of the criminal justice system, but these changes and additions were carried out by the DOS regime. The proposer has failed to complete the codification of criminal law, there are no fewer and more important criminal offences, and mostly the unquality legal norm dominates the proposal for this code. The current code was not an obstacle to the state's protection of citizens and to suppress crime, so the adoption of this law will not contribute to reducing or suppressing crime, so it will be in vain to provide for such repressive penalties for certain crimes in relation to existing legislation. The description of certain crimes is unclear and will inevitably cause major problems in the application of these standards. I can give you a large number of members, from Article 316 and beyond. The criminal code proposal is not regulated in a comprehensive way by criminal matter, as a certain number of criminal offences remains within the framework of the criminal provisions of certain laws governing certain other areas. I suppose the crime is a crime and who gave you the right, that is to say, to determine which act will be of minor importance and which act, related less or more to the matter that these laws regulate, will remain in these special laws, which you will codify by this criminal code. With this repressive criminal code, you prove that you are the least democratic society, which you are formally declaring, that you are a society without organisation, that you are a society in chaos, where citizens have no security, where crime is on the rise, headed by your judges of the Supreme Court, which you can only prevent, you think, by repression, and which suggests that you are far from democracy, you are already very close to a dictatorial state, which is likely to compromise the fundamental rights of citizens. If the world is well-known for its position, and for us, that criminal law is the last means, then what is the expansion of the newly introduced incriminations? What is the guarantee that it will be applied when it is not applied or existing? Certain provisions of the criminal code are indeterminate, general, inaccurate, so the Serbian Radical Party has submitted a large number of amendments to the code. You're abolishing the current solution that sets aside the criminal responsibility, so are your employers. You're giving up entering social danger as a special feature of an independent element of the concept of a crime, because that's what your bosses from the West want. You lift the institute of minor social dangers and replace it with the institute of little importance, and this institute is limited to those crimes for which a prison of up to three years or even a fine is intended. The section containing the rules on liability for criminal offences committed through the press and other means of public information practically brings the paper, i.e. the right of a person not to reveal the author and source of information, thus avoiding any criminal liability, unlike the existing solution, which will inevitably lead to many abuses by editors and journalists. The proposer introduces two new penalties in the penal system. Imagine, working in the public interest and taking away a driver's license. It's really incompatible with criminal law. I'd like to ask the minister, if he were here, what is working in the public interest, and what has been whispered to you by your employers and who will be punished by this punishment. The fine, as envisaged, cannot hit the rich and the poor equally, all perpetrators of the crimes. The introduction of a felony murder out of compassion has no justification and comes across the negative attitude and reluctance of our entire Serbian public, because what would be the difference between this murder and the ordinary murder? By order introduce incrimination of torture, in Article 137. The proposal, where the perpetrator can be any person, introduces a criminal act - abuse and torture, and the provisions of this article are general, vague and unclear, so that no one will be able to determine a criminal offence, so that millions of people will come under the influence of this law, or this Article 137. The problem of command responsibility, which neither knows our own nor foreign legislation, is that you are trying to improvise orders from the West by introducing a new criminal act from Article 384 – the failure to prevent crimes against humanity and other goods protected by international law, where a military commander appears as the perpetrator, therefore the commander, who, beware of this, does not take appropriate steps to prevent the crimes of his subordinates. Gentlemen, these criminals well know that this work would require a causal link between the insubordination of the alleged and the subject, as perpetrator of the crime, which, as suggested, is not a causal relationship. By the way, there's no crime. Because if there is no causal link, the execution of a felony would not constitute a condition for the incrimination of this crime. One of the important tasks of the puppet government, gentlemen, in every country, even in this one of yours – and if it weren't for puppets, would not have extradited our heroes and our heroes, such as professors Dr Vojislav Seselj and other heroes of our defense war, is the loss of integrity. The country commanded by the outside is relatively rapidly parting with its history, its past, tradition, laws, national symbols. Serbia's criminal code, such as irony, is written from the capital of European crime. So a large number of solutions the Serbian Radical Party has disputed because they could have been better. Many solutions are even worse than existing legislation, and these are the solutions you have taken from foreign legislation, i.e. The solutions of your mentors that you do in subjection, causing irreparable damage to your country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19813	Thank you, Mr. Koprivica, for your clearly reasoned views on why you will uphold the law. The word has a People's MP Milan Markovic, but he is not present. The People's Messenger Djordje Mamula has the word, and then the People's Messenger Sreto Peric. (Zoran Krasic, from the scene: It was constructive criticism. I thank you. Here you go, Mr. Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19814	The proposal for a criminal code is based on its content, when examined in detail, so that the authors were deprived of any claim to originality because today it is very difficult to be original, especially since we, in a series of countries that have changed the criminal code, are lastly changing the criminal code and harmonize it with internationally accepted obligations. As is known, we as a state that is a member of the UN have agreed to bring our legislation in line with the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, the UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime with the Protocol on the Prevention, Prevention and Penalty of Human Beings Trade, especially women and children, and the Protocol against the smuggling of migrants by land, sea and air, the European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, the International Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Storage and Use of Chemical Weapons. In addition, the Constitutional Charter adopted in 2003 in Article 10 prescribes that international contracts are directly applied in our law. So the provisions of international agreements on human and minority rights and civil liberties, which apply in Serbia-Montenegro's territory, are directly applied. One of the obligations, which is respected in this proposal, is provided for by the Charter of Human and Minority Rights. Namely, ratified international agreements and ever-accepted rules of international law have primate over Serbia-Montenegro's law and the law of the Member States. So it was necessary to appreciate that we could belong to a civilized world. So, to say that someone was first in this or that proposal, I think it's quite unnecessary, because these are solutions that have existed for 10-15 years in the modern criminal legislation of Europe. Almost all the countries of the former Yugoslavia, or the Republic, have adopted it, so we are only now coming in that order, as one of the last states to make serious, rooted changes to criminal legislation. Of course, in addition to good solutions in criminal law, it is very important that we have judges who know life well. Because having a great law, and having judges who aren't good friends with life, reality, that can't judge the facts, can't help much. In addition, it is very important that we do not have what happened here in the near past in 2001, 2003. In his memories, Serbian Deputy Prime Minister Cedomir Jovanovic said they were forced to be MPs, judges, prosecutors, police officers and to talk to the mafia and everything else. Where's that? What does that mean to talk to the mob? What does it mean to be an MP at the same time, to be a prosecutor, to be a judge and vice president of the Assembly? That period should stay behind and never happen again. We recently had a retroactive operation of Criminal Law. We had a court president who said that somehow we'd find a way to retroactively apply the law when it comes to 40 years. When I mentioned a statement by Mr Jovanovic, or his memories in the book "My Account with the Past", when we saw all these powers, it is likely now that the question is being raised how is it possible that almost all members of the Surcin clan get the status of protected witnesses or are at risk of obtaining that status? So, considering that, I think this is the time I mentioned is definitely for us and it serves as a very bad example, which shouldn't happen again. As far as new crimes are concerned, I think it is important to draw attention to the fact that we are now introducing the crime of murder out of compassion, which has not been in our legislation so far. It has been adopted by European legislation, because it has come to this point that such life situations should also be respected in which someone should be helped in such a way that diseases or pains are so intolerable and difficult that further life makes no sense. I think in our practice it could be seen that there were such situations. However, I think that now by regulating the murder out of compassion one big step forward in approaching the moral values of the European continent. It is very good that there has been a change in the provisions relating to conditional leave, because it is now found that the court is deciding on parole, not administrative authorities, or criminal and jurisprudence administrations. Rehabilitation has been changed in a key way. She's been more police than humanist by now. I think there's a big step ahead. It's a good thing that the statutes of limitations are changed, because in the case of time crimes, it's taken to assume that obsolescence starts from the moment the consequences occurred, not when the act was done. On the other hand, if we look at the situation in Kosovo, we know that since 1999 our government has no jurisdiction there, that there are international forces, officers from military and police academys from the West, with the most modern equipment. However, I think their results on the detection and clarification of crimes are very weak. Look at the situation surrounding some very difficult killings, we mean Gorazdevac, we mean the situation on March 17th, the pogrom of Serbs, almost no work has been clarified. This means that neither good criminal laws, nor well equipped police with modern technology can do anything unless there is a strong will to get into the fight against crime, especially organised, as it is today in Kosovo. I think it's very important to see that when it comes to fighting crime, the world changes. We were recently able to see in Britain, and for the murder of an unfortunate Brazilian citizen on the London subway, that no one is responsible for this mistake in Britain, which means that a new standard has been established in Europe – for state reasons and killing, and not responding. In terms of prison sentences, I think it was still necessary to amend the law by putting in place a life sentence, because I think that for some crimes of 30, 40 years, such a person can no longer return to life after prison and that a life sentence, as a solution already exists in some countries, would be the right solution for our country. I think the upcoming changes need to take care of that too. I think the law should be accepted as a whole.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19815	Thank you, Mr. Mamula. The People's Messenger Sreto Perić has the word, then the People's Messenger Bora Kutic, then the People's Messenger Dragutin Peric. Please, MP Sreto Peric, MP Momir Markovic has given up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19816	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, because of our public, and above all for the professional public, I will just have to remind myself of what legal proposals we are discussing today, because almost all colleagues, as I will, of course, do, for justified reasons, comment on and talk about the Code of Criminal Code proposal, given that the merger of five points of the agenda has been made. Therefore, we are today discussing the Bill of Criminal Code, the Proposal for a Law on Minority Crimes and the Criminal Protection of Jurisdictionary Persons, the Proposal for a Law on Criminal Penalty, the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Participants in Criminal Procedure and, ultimately, as a fifth legal proposal, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code on Criminal Procedure. Mr. Petar Jojic, as the authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party today, spoke extensively about the general principles concerning the SRS' stance on the draft criminal code. You've seen how many Serbian radicals can be cooperative and, above all, more skilled when they're doing a part of the job. You saw from his statement that 80% of the bill was rewritten from the Serbian Radical Party working group's proposal. It doesn't matter now. It is important that one "European politician" suggested and said – let's combine these five points of the agenda, and most of them say – so we could. It reminds me of how when students go to school and somewhere before the end of the first term they don't get graded, teachers don't question them at the end of the first semester, they say on the last day – we could question you all and give you a grade. That is, about considering and discussing today the five points that are united. You have seen that the proposals for these laws in the majority, except for this last one, which was submitted to the assembly procedure on 1 September 2005, and this is the proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, arrived in 2004, and we have occasionally approached these problems, studied them, investigated them, and then gave up, because it was not on the agenda. Today, one of the MPs said the Criminal Code is one of the most important laws in the Republic of Serbia. I can agree and accept, because around him, he regulates that area where much rests. Discipline in economic economy will depend on the extent and the good part of how we are regulated by the criminal code, that is, how certain acts are envisaged and what penalties are threatened with non-compliance with business in business, and everything else, that I do not speak further, is regulated and will depend on it. It was therefore necessary not to include this proposal in an extraordinary session, but should be held in a regular session and a much more professional and thorough debate should be conducted. I've recorded a few terms here from the Criminal Code, and I have no intention of commenting on them all. Someone said that the judges... We can have a good criminal code, and it's good, I'll agree with all the colleagues who said that the progress in adopting a criminal code is. That's true, because we have a situation where so far we've had in the 24 laws incriminating acts that are now provided for in the criminal code. That was very difficult for the practitioners as well. When I say practitioners, I mean, first of all, judges, prosecutors and other organs that work in this area. Now it will be much easier, and for the citizens of Serbia themselves, if something is provided for by the criminal code, psychologically acts on it much more, more seriously and stronger, it has stronger strength, so that it knows that a certain sanction is being threatened, where the sentence of prison is often anticipated. Today, freedom is the favorite thing for every citizen, and that is why he has a respect for it. If we foresee certain crimes in some laws that regulate other matter and problems, then it will not have that psychological impact, and in this sphere its application will fail, or the effect will not be achieved. And so far, a large number of crimes, wherever they are contained, whether in criminal law or in other laws that regulate other matter, are prescribed certain prison sentences, but was not the realisation of these criminal sanctions at that level. That's where the Serbian judiciary failed, and it's not ruined, so someone would now split up here and say, in the last five or ten years. It's been for years, and the most we've seen since 2000. It is necessary that judges who apply this law know life, and as one of their colleagues said – and not just life; and not only judges, but also the legislator knows the current situation for which certain regulations should be laid down and applied. Let's say, Article 340. A criminal code that says -- a crime of non-execution of court decisions, and you know that Serbian citizens are most often faced with these problems, and very often the execution of these court decisions is pending even after a few years. Serbian citizens are beginning to doubt Serbia's judicial system at that point, and we cannot say that we do not have any good judges. Not all the time, there's been a negative selection in the judicial authorities and prosecutors, but also today in the court and in the prosecution we have very professional and quality people. Of course, we also have those who came to court by party membership and who had no working experience, as well as the presidents of the courts. Because of such cases, someone will answer, or for the time being, only the political punishment, the political sanctions of those who have proposed them, was known. There'll probably be other sanctions for that in the future. Then, I think my colleague Bozidar Koprivica spoke of the stretching of sanctions that can be imposed in the execution of a crime. The Serbian Radical Party has advocated more humane relations, i.e. more humane application of sanctions when committing crimes, and we do not think that there should be such a range of crimes. You see, forest theft, where one who cuts more than one cubic metre of trees, I mean national parks, special protected zones, so on a simple forest, will be fined for up to one year, and for serious crimes, a fine of one year is foreseen. So there's no equal criminal policy here, which is what we should pay attention to so that simply this criminal code could also be counterproductive, which is our goal. Because the Serbian Radical Party has proposed that we pass such a criminal code to prevent potential perpetrators of criminal acts, so that the judicial authorities have as few cases as possible, and so that they can do the same as best possible. Since there are other colleagues from the SRS who will speak, I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19817	The People's Messenger Bora Kutić, then the People's Messenger Dragutin Perić, and then the People's Messenger Miljko Četrović. The People's MP Bora Kutic is not there, then the People's MP Dragutin Peric, and then the National MP Miljko Četrovic, and then the National MP Milan Stevovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19818	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since they are the predecessors of the so-called People's MPs of the Serbian Radical Party pay more attention to the Bill of Criminal Codes, I would look back on this one and rather cast my discussion's accent on the draft law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions. I would point out some inconsistencies in this proposal, and all for reasons that are so clear and visible when comparing certain proposed legal provisions, such as if we take a delay in the execution of prison sentences for extraordinary remedies. Inconsistencies would consist in the fact that the law does not follow the decidently and literally these opening provisions of the proposed law. For example, Article 4 states that "execution of sanctions shall be approached when a decision imposing sanctions becomes effective and there are no legal interferences for the execution of sanctions", which will say that it is clear that it can appear as a legal disturbance if a delay in the execution of a prison sentence is sought, when it comes to repetitive criminal proceedings or an emergency review of a judicial ruling. However, in Article 4(2), point (a) is replaced by the following: The bill states that a court ruling can be executed even when it is not judicial. So that points to the conclusion... Later, it said in Article 59 -- execution is delayed when a judicial decision is made if the prosecutor submits a request for a review of the judicial decision. There is one legal uncertainty, because it turns out now that the situation is that judicial rulings, when they are enforceable and enforceable, when this sanction is to be carried out, can be delayed, while a verdict that is not final judicial and executive cannot be delayed, although it is not yet judicial and is not ready for enforcement, because it is normal that there is a legal remedy, it is a complaint, and it can be appealed, but to access enforcement. Also, I'd like to point out one illogicality in the means of execution. Article 11(1) states that the funds for the execution of sanctions are borne by the budget of the Republic of Serbia, while Article 2 is said to – unless the law provides otherwise, which means that a person who is at the maintenance of a sanction can also happen in respect of certain appropriate submissions to be filed (and everything is related to an institution where he maintains the fine, and this in terms of treatment, as it goes through in that institution), is in a situation where he is able to subscribe and pay costs, such as appropriate taxis. It is entirely illogical that this is applied in the sanctioning procedure, and we know that in the trial process there is an institute, for example, a poor state, where the accused is unable to bear the proper costs of the proceedings, so the defence attorney is given him by law under official duty. And already in the executive procedure, where it is located on the maintenance of the fine, there is a situation where he does not have the means to bear any costs, and all related to the proper treatment in the case of domestic order, if he submits certain submissions or if he asks for adequate judicial protection, since it is assumed that the protection of persons who are subject to the penalties is allowed, and everything is related to the conditions and application of the specific household order and the treatment itself in the establishment where the sentence is maintained.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19819	The People's Messenger Bora Kutic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19820	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I thank you for giving me your word and I apologize for being away. In my presentation, I would like to pay attention to the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, because my predecessors paid more attention to the Criminal Code and other laws. That's why I decided that my exposure should be directed to the law on the execution of criminal sanctions. Knowing that matter, as a longtime criminal-infringing worker, I am aware that throughout history there have been various systems of enforcement of criminal sanctions. The first system in the execution of criminal sanctions was the Pennsylvania system or the Philadelphia system (because the first prison was founded in Philadelphia half of the 19th century). After that, progressive systems appear, it is an Irish progressive system, a classification system, a Makonaki or a credit system; in our judiciary, therefore, at the center of the execution of criminal sanctions is a classification system or a system of joint maintenance of penalties. Why the classification? For reasons that convicted persons were classified in the KPZ through A, B, C groups and convicted on the basis of these groups had certain rights and opportunities to use certain benefits. I would particularly like to pay attention to this law, which the legislator of this law may have missed a little bit to address the problem of those convicted the first time. As a criminal, in practice I've had a lot of encounters with people who are perpetrators of crimes on their way back. So, people who have endured prison sentences and appear to be perpetrators of the crime on their way back, means retrieval. This means that the KPZ retraining service failed to carry out the basic task of retraining convicted persons and bringing them back to normal life flows. I think the state should pay more attention to those convicted the first time, and accordingly I would suggest that a KPZ be established at Serbia level, where the prison sentence would support those who were convicted for the first time. The funds provided for the refurbishment service would take part of the funds and focus on these institutions for the first time. Normally, in these institutions, prison sentences would be held for a certain type of crime, given in a certain period of time, about five years. This would avoid training criminals in the KPZ. As a man who worked at the KPZ, I can safely tell you that the convicted who came to the first time in contact with others committed education and after leaving prison committed a crime, usually as did the perpetrators with whom he communicated during the time of his sentence. It is therefore necessary to establish a KPZ in Serbia for those convicted for the first time in support of the fine, in order to reduce the level of relapse, or return. Furthermore, here I came across that when paying for work – normally, work is required and for this work, the condemned should receive a certain fee – the proposer predicted it to be 20% of the average personal income at Serbia's level. My point is that this should be one quarter of the personal income for the same kind of civil work. Why? In this way, we would stimulate convicted people to adapt, fight and advocate certain actions when they go free, so that they could fit into social life more easily. Look what else is going on at the KPZ where convicted persons are staying during the night. There's not much to be taken care of. There's 20-30 convicts in one dormitory. I think the law should limit the number of convicted persons who can sleep in one room to limit the management of the KPZ so that they can't put more than one dormitory in one bedroom than, I'm talking to you by heart, about a dozen people. In this way we would be more humane than our fellow citizens, because they are, in any case, our fellow citizens. Anyway, the law on the execution of criminal sanctions is good for me too, with this part that I have stated in some way need to be corrected.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19821	The People's MP Miljko Četrovic has the word, and let the National MP Milan Stevovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19822	Dear People’s MPs, with the will of the MP majority, the National Assembly was in a position to consider in a united debate a total of five hours in the principle of a set of these laws, starting with a criminal code and other laws of criminal law. This speaks of the seriousness of the proposing, or government of the Republic of Serbia and the parliamentary majority, as it observes the situation when it comes to criminal laws, all the laws following this code. In the opening statement of the justice minister, it was said that no proposal had yet been made, that a law on criminal proceedings was being drafted in the process, which was inevitably to follow in one set with a criminal code and other laws on the agenda. With all due respect for the effort and process of codifying criminal law and the drafting of this bill of criminal code and compliance with the Rome Statute, with conventions, one fundamental and open question is being raised – will the proposed criminal code and other laws reduce criminality in Serbia, if we have the situation we have, start with organised crime? We know that former Police Minister Mihajlovic, who now writes novels on the mountain and publishes it, among those 40 organised crime groups, as listed in some White Book, on extremely serious crimes, where people are killed in the calculation of certain mob groups or innocent victims who fall on streets and cafes and other public places, on the rise of juvenile crime or delinquency, which is the most difficult result of this situation in Serbia. Will all these provisions provided for by the criminal code make it a matter of swift establishment of justice and an effective legal order, at least in this part of criminal law, that most Serbian citizens understand that we have an organised state, that we have an independent judiciary, as one of the pillars of the state, and especially in this area where chaos, anarchy and hopelessness rule. I have one graduation from a few years ago, when criminals were reportedly being prosecuted on various grounds, which were linked to the government, whether local, or at a republican level. These are called, when they are caught or brought in – the perpetrators are well known to the organs of persecution. What does that mean, "well-known law enforcement"? That means they've done a lot of crimes before, but they haven't been prosecuted, they're not tried, they're not convicted, they haven't endured prison sentences. In the next phase, we came up with the name that they were your so-called so-called. Known to the authorities of the prosecution have become "controversial businessmen", because they have become rich and are no longer known to the law enforcement bodies, to come to the next stage that they are "tycoons", "oligars" and other names taken from other countries. Can we go over one controversy that was heard from DSS MPs today, and we haven't received an adequate answer from DS, that she's the former DOS government took over the mafia, continued to work with the mob, and that no one from that government, who is now insiders or writers of these books, as I have already mentioned, continues to humiliate Serbian citizens, to appear on TV B92 and to call others for hard work or looting Serbian citizens or anything they say and do. I'd like to make one concrete remark when it comes to replacing a parole by fine. Does it mean that the perpetrators of criminal acts, where the practice they applied, and it is known which courts, first-degree courts, instead of the sentence of prison, have, as a rule, pronounced a parole, will not even have that threat of parole, but will only have fines, and those who gain or gain still the wealth of robbery and withdrawal will pay fines and will never be threatened by parole, let alone prison punishment? As a man and as a MP, they cannot agree with this, because the concept of a liberal law or the concept of a criminal code cannot in this state in which Serbia is located to be applied. Many angry wounds on Serbian citizens, and angry wounds require angry grass. Therefore, an effective criminal law and the application of that criminal law in the short term should aim, with all that is provided for as a criminal offence, to be prosecuted in one short procedure, not denying the right to pursue criminal sanctions or punishments, and that it is a prejudicial purpose to prevent others from committing these crimes or similar acts, and on the other hand to be a repression against one who commits such a crime. Unfortunately, we have returnees in the same or similar criminal acts, and as a rule these returnees go to far more serious crimes, but we have no response from the state, no response from the judicial authority. The evidence why we don't have is this last thing that happened in this assembly at an extraordinary session, when it came to the immunity of the Supreme Court judge and the deputy special prosecutor. Then we can assume what is the situation in municipal courts, in district courts, if this is the case in the Supreme Court of Serbia, and Minister Stojkovic himself has announced new arrest cases in the highest court. Then there is no trust, no law and no justice in the state of Serbia. For all these reasons, with all these commendations about codification, the only good is this criminal code and all others who follow this criminal code if applied consistently, quickly and efficiently. We are aware that we cannot absolutely eradicate crime, but we cannot allow society, as a people and as a state, which has existed for over 200 years, that crime continues to flourish and that those who continue to deal with crime or are engaged in crime live in debauchery, humiliate the citizens of Serbia, and that, in addition, Serbian citizens are allegedly paying the special court, the special prosecutor, that special court spokesman, and now we see that other courts have a portfolio. This is not what courts need to do, to enforce laws, in legal procedures to work quickly, effectively and to decide.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19823	The People's MP Milan Stevović has the word, and then the National MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19824	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think there's something to be said about this very specific codification of the criminal code, since it's a codification of the federal, republican, and that lex specialis level. It is about provisions previously prescribed by federal laws, and then some of the provisions prescribed at the level of the Republic of Serbia. I have to say something about the fact that this law has been unjustly standing in the assembly procedure for a long time, because the government has already proposed on 14 October 2004 to go into procedure with this code. If the state cares about justice, justice, truth, and legality, there is likely to be grounds and reasons for putting this codification much earlier in the congregation debate and adoption. I have to say that the environment in which we're making these laws and in which we're discussing it is really very problematic, especially because of the latest events, because last Friday, when we decided what we decided and what many of my predecessors were talking about. I hate to remember that, and I don't want that situation to happen again in this country. We are witnessing that some of the attributions have been justified, however, that the judiciary has laid down corruption and bribery, i.e. the prosecution and the court. We are now in a situation to codify criminal law, and on the other hand, we have a very problematic behaviour of individual judges. I purposely stress - some judges and prosecutors, because we must never generalise things. The honor of those who perform these functions professionally. When we talk about the criminal code, a very clear message falls into the eyes, which is that there is a presummation of innocence left out of this criminal code. I expected at least a minister or a proponent to explain a few words as to why it was done, whether it was a European tendency, whether it was a tendency of the Anglo-Saxon system, or whether it was a relapse that had to be erased from this legal system of ours. When it comes to the concept of a crime, one very important feature has been left out, and this is a social danger and, on the other hand, we know that there was a minor social danger. The justification given by the promoter can only be accepted conditionally, which is that social danger is important for those who prescribe a criminal offence and that it is managed by this social danger something and included in the crime. However, when we talk about a minor social danger, we cannot go beyond the fact that the intended work is of little importance; there are now some basic things being prosecuted, and that is that no crime is really a crime, because this crime has little meaning. Therefore, something that is not a crime has just been caused by minor social danger. So, that institute had to stay at least in the part we talked about here, which is during legislative activity. I'd like to say something about an irrefutable legal delusion that, according to the motion, rules out guilt. It's said to be a delusion that the wrongdoer could never escape. I'm asking you to answer me what the case is in my life. So far, and according to such a finding, there is absolutely no example that we could say that someone has been in an irrevocable legal error. In addition, I would like to say that the abandonment of the provisions on the organisation of a criminal association is very characteristic, given that the focus of protection was on the leader who organizes the criminal association, and now we are undermining all this under duress and co-execution. We know it's forms of complicity, but we can't generalize things that much. In fact, that social danger that we erased from the context of the crime has just demanded that there be a special prediction of criminal association. Thus, the person who organized the criminal association has a degree of criminal responsibility greater than those who otherwise organized themselves according to his address, his proposal, or his encouragement. So, I think it's prematurely thrown out here to organize a criminal association. There's something I'd like to say about the maximum penalty of 40 years, although that's what we're talking about. As I analyzed the applicant's explanation, for 40 years as the maximum penalty is justified by the existence of legislation and life imprisonment. We absolutely can't justify that. If we define as a maximum of 40 years, we have to say what is the basis for determining that maximum penalty. The fact that there is some serious punishment in some legislation, that I'm not talking about the death penalty, is no excuse at all for us to take this 40-year time interval as a maximum to determine a prison sentence. I would like to point out another very important fact, which is that when it comes to the limitations of crimes, one exception is that the limitation period begins with the temporal crimes of the day the consequence occurred. This generalization is absolutely not allowed, because if we look at the provision of Article 16 which speaks when a criminal offence is committed, it can only be given this exception on one condition, and if it is not possible to determine the time when the perpetrator worked or was obliged to work. So, the temporal crimes are those crimes where the action of execution when someone was, when someone was working or was obliged to work, and the consequence came much later. So, if we can't determine this first part, it's only then that obsolescence can run from the time that the consequence occurred, but as stated in the law, it's all under the notion of obsolescence that starts with temporal crimes from the moment the consequences occur. There's going to be a lot of mistakes because we can't just discuss criminal law right now, because we got a united debate so we can't concentrate on these provisions. I expect very rapid changes to this codified criminal code. I'd also like to say something about some concrete crimes. First of all, I would refer to a crime – a serious murder, referred to in point 7 of Article 114) where "who deprives the life of a child or a burdensome woman". There's only one crime that can lead to confusion. I'd like to ask the promoter to explain: this is clear for a burdened woman, but what is meant if she deprives a child of his life? I think this should have been completely separated. So one attitude to be, who deprives the life of a child (that is one form of heavy murder) and the other is, who deprives a woman (that is another form) of life. As it's written here, with this vesicle "or" it's questionable whether it's deprivement of a child's life in the womb of a mother or depriveing life of a woman or whether it's a crime. So it's absolutely not clear. We cannot leave this to interpretations, we cannot leave it to court practice, this legislator has to define clearly, because it is very specific. According to everything we've had so far, I speak from experience, as a serious murder is considered child murder. So, a hard murder is a murder of a child and a murder is a murder of a burdensome woman, and not in one sentence, with an "or." When it comes to the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, the issue of abolishing the personal-examination office is raised. Whether it's a good move by the promoter, from this place I can't give my judgment, because time will show whether this was the right attitude or not. The problem is that this institute, a person-examination facility, has experienced in practice a single indignity. There was little access to a real personality study and a reference to certain criminal institutions, and more this was accepted for granted, someone was directed, spent some time and deployed in some institutions. So I don't think that all the convicted should have been deprived of the office of questioning and their examination of personality. There will be problems in practice, who is referred, as directed, in which way, where the punishment is maintained, etc. I must say that in terms of disciplinary measures and material responsibility for damage can indeed be accepted that amount of 10,000, which makes for the maintenance of the criminal penalty damage of 10,000 to pass the disciplinary procedure and to be compensated, but I believe there is absolutely no justification for these disciplinary measures of loneliness, as the representatives of the Serbian Radical Party have said, there is absolutely no justification. I'd like to pay attention to a very characteristic institute, and that's the right of a defendant to judicial protection. This is the right of the convicted who is already in the institution to conduct a administrative dispute before the competent court concerning the disciplinary procedure and the measures to which it has been referred. I'd ask the public to pay attention to how deep we're going in and out, which is that we have to accept everything that's being served, I'm not going to tell them from which towers, but I have to point out that it's about convicted persons who have had a disciplinary offense, a crime, and we give them the right to conduct a administrative dispute after what we've said. This law can never come to life with us as long as there is a certain court called The Hague, while there are rights denied not to the convicted but to the suspect, taken violently. So we're going into administrative proceedings here, we're providing protection through the administrative dispute of a convicted person, and we're allowing some courts there to respect even basic, fundamental human rights. When we talk about the Code of Criminal Procedure, there are only amendments regarding Articles 232 and 233 relating to the confidence of certain important matters. We see that it's important as soon as there's a change, and we see that it's the BIA, which is given the authority to listen to the judge's approval, etc., to monitor, record. They've done it before, so it's likely that this change has come from that practice. I wanted to say so much, and I think this codification in these conditions is very problematic and I expect the very rapid changes to these regulations that we've been considering here today, because a lot has changed and there's a lot of that left inexplicable. I can tell you, when it comes to this lex specialis, it's a problem whether or not it was necessary to extricate crimes from special lex specialis laws. I'm going to give you an example of the Law of Arms and Ammunition, which is all stated in this law, and this law is left without a crime. When someone reads that law, they can't see that a crime is planned. So, article 33 pulls out. It's the same with many other laws. Imagine the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration that we discussed here. You read, everything's fine, we see that there's a breach of provisions, but there's no crime. The question is whether someone who applies this law alone will take the Penal Code to see if it's an act that's meant to be here. So, everything can be discussed, but we need a little more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19825	Thank you, Mr. Stevovic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19826	Anything proposed in this set of criminal rules at this meeting should be more fully placed in one criminal law which should cover both procedural and material law and the enforcement of criminal sanctions. This is what the SRS considers to be a codification and uniformification of our regulations. When Petar Jojic talked about some of our efforts from 1999 to 2000, it is conditional to understand that it was an attempt to codify under conditions of shared jurisdiction in criminal matter between the SRJ and the Republic of the Member States. What do you say, first of all, about this criminal code? I think it's just one attempt to do something, which can probably be regarded as an unskilled and unfavourable attempt at the moment. Why? If you write in Article 13 that the provisions of the general part of this Code apply to all criminal offences established by this Code or by other law, other rules shall remain in which there will be criminal offences. If there are other rules in which crimes exist, then this is not codification, what we're doing today, it's very simple and simple. If the general part of the criminal code should be the thought of a guide when determining crimes by special regulations, then the general part would have to be. I'd just draw attention if we no longer had a provision on the grounds of individual criminal responsibility. How she got lost and why she got lost to me is not clear. In that sense, this dialectic between guilt and wine is hardly possible for me to accept. What bothers me especially is how you regulate complicity, that's point 3, it's said – complicity in a criminal act; that's where you put complicity in a narrow and wider sense. I think you've had to isolate co-execution as a special category and a special group that will be processed; complicity in a narrow sense, in terms of incentives, aiding and forms of organised crime, to elaborate. What particularly bothers me is that you are the responsibility of the editor, and these are the specific provisions on criminal acts done through the press or other means of public information, essentially copied from the existing law. Now it's no longer a member of the 27th basic law, it's 38. I represent the thesis – which I also represented in the adoption of Korać's Law on Public Information, which was not intended to regulate public information, but to bring confusion into the field of public information, and in particular confusion regarding the responsibility of authors, journalists, editor-in-chief, and both those criminal and material-legal ones – is always the main and responsible editor. Always. A team before these "human souls fishermen" reported so much... I have to make my point, because I'm pretty much the victim of those reporters who put a block in their back pocket and a pen for an ear and give themselves the right to write anything and everything. Then lawyers and judges can interpret it -- he didn't say it, he thought it over, he passed it on, that's what someone else said, etc. I think you had to strengthen the responsibility of the editor-in-chief, because they were protected. They have better protection than MPs who have immunity. That's what you should know. They've got better protection. I'm not going to comment on these things you've listed here. I don't understand it in article 42 where you defined the purpose of punishment, so you put the first point here: "Preventing the perpetrator to commit crimes and influence... "I don't know what that means - influence. It can make a mistake. However, in practice he won't show up, but in any case, when individualizing criminal responsibility is carried out, so the punishment is measured, then the judge must have in mind the provision that is here. This whole withdrawal of the driver's license thing, I don't think it's clear who wrote it, either. He doesn't know what the measure is. Furthermore, I'd draw your attention, I don't think it's a problem, you can intervene, as a ministry, but here we have the mandatory treatment of drug addicts and the mandatory treatment of alcoholics. It is said that "the perpetrator who committed the crime is dependent on the use of intoxicating drugs". That term doesn't exist anymore. There's an international classification of disease. The term and term - addiction diseases, drug abuse and alcoholism have been abolished. Instead, disease addictions are just behavioral disorders. He says it's the behavioral disorder and all the psychopaths, sociopaths, hooligans, all kinds of profiles. Don't classify something that doesn't exist. Drug abuse and alcoholism are no longer a disease, but a behavioral disorder. Now the new termology says: drugs and alcohol are also not called that, but -- psychoactive substances. This is very important, if the medical profession no longer knows this - addiction diseases, but new research suggests that every criminal who later appears as an alcoholic or a drug addict, before coming under the influence of these funds, has shown a criminal tendency. Second of all, you're a big fan of these junkies and alcoholics. You in practice now have a situation, and take a look around, since you're finally going to go through the courts, so a drug dealer can go straight ahead of arrest or after he's arrested to take one of these drugs, I don't even know what they're called, right now a lawyer has to say-- he's not a drug dealer, he's an addict. Of course, he gets mandatory treatment, stays there for a while, gets out, makes his job work, because he's not an addict. Just consult a little bit of expertise. You know, when they get into that crisis, it lasts 19 days, from months to six months, they're cured and they can go back to holding a prison sentence, because they're actually criminals. Don't make criminals sick. When you wait for the rulings of the Supreme Court, the one that attacks the National Assembly for the fact that the National Assembly, and almost all MP groups, did not select some of their favorites as court presidents, then keep in mind this part of which I was talking about here. To know that there are a lot of judgments in practice where it is seen that the medical profession has been cast out, as a traffic sign is cast out in the wake of some crimes. But let's move on: The injury of Serbia-Montenegro's reputation and the Member States; you put it as an act. It is said: "Whoever publicly exposes Serbia-Montenegro or its Member State, their flag, coat of arms or anthem will be punished... ". A similar act exists in the existing Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, Article 98. I think it has the same title - exposure to the Roses of the SCG, or the Republic of the Member. It describes how this work is done. I have to say, I'm a great skeptic if the amendment intervenes in this particular area, where the crimes are. Why? I'm a skeptic for one simple reason why I'm afraid MPs with uncontrollable amendments can alter the elements of being in certain criminal acts. It's the greatest danger of our amendments. He can write an amendment to a particular member of the law for the best purposes and unwittingly change the elements of a particular criminal act. Come on, what would differ from some theoretical understanding and practice that already exists when it comes to some crimes, but there's a danger of losing some of our crimes, that we have a member that's inapplicable. It happened to us with the spread of false news. That member was changed in 2003, I think. Then we have Natasha Kandic, who can fool around in the media. Let me warn you what she said on one of the shows on Radio B92, the "Snarefinger" show, because she was angry because her resolution about Srebrenica, of course, couldn't get through here. In anger, the president of the Republic of Serbia, the prime minister of the government, was insulted. For the president of the National Assembly, she said, "Of course, I couldn't expect the National Assembly to bring such a resolution when those who committed crimes reminds them of the president of the National Assembly." State shut up. Yeah, laugh you, the state shut up. Of course, Tomislav Nikolic was eventually killed because a woman in anger invented everything and everything. The D.A.'s office is silent. He doesn't care. A few days ago, I was talking, when are we going to pass a law on the protector of the state? We've passed the Civil Protection Act, and who's going to protect the state? Here you gave it even more benign, or almost no elements of being a criminal. Some of the crimes got lost in the meantime. You put a criminal association in public order and peace, and it's a crime of sui generis. I'm not going to comment on this part right now, maybe this is what I have to do, but the theory is completely different about this, like, first of all, the form of an execution. (President: Time. I must say that we are the signatories of that statute. He was signed in 1998. We ratified it, I think, in 2001. He went into effect a year ago. The judges of the court, who is also headquartered in The Hague, have been elected. Just to remind you, the United States was an opponent, they wouldn't accept that Roman statute. In Rome, the United States represented Theodore Meron, who is now the president of the court. (President: I remind you of the time. I mean on time, of course. (President): Then finish, please, since time has passed... There'll be a little more. Let me explain one thing to you. That's where four groups of crimes were formed. I have to say, for some crimes like genocide, war crimes, etc. There is probably a quite solid definition and there are certain elements of the criminal act, and even it is said that Member States define the elements of the entity of the crime, there is an agreement. This aggressive war and the crime against peace practically no one wants to define, although the UN General Assembly has passed a resolution defining a crime against peace and so on. an aggressive war. I think you might be a little premature here and there's a danger that we'll have one provision that will be completely unusable. In the transitional and final provisions of the Criminal Code, I think you've forgotten some of the regulations that also have specifically foreseen criminal acts, and these acts are dealt with by this bill, and above all, I mean the Foreign Exchange Act. I agree that there's a foreign exchange law now, so maybe that's why there's a overlap. This isn't a codification. I'm just expressing a great deal of concern that such a defined criminal act, the elements of a criminal act, such a certain general part of a criminal law, is also referred to as personal, territorial, etc. and all other aspects of jurisdiction and promotion of the principles of legality, do not create confusion. Our general part of the criminal code was quite solid. He may have had to endure one or six changes, and as far as the special part is concerned, there were probably works to be thrown out, re-edited, and installed what we were obliged to do under international conventions. No matter how many government officials claim to have done this to us here, I don't think they've done it to the end. That is why there are a large number of amendments that have been accepted. I am simply afraid, after the mass acceptance of the amendments that have become an integral part of the bill, that we have lost sight of the entire material and criminal legislation. If you're sure this can make a difference, it'd be good. However, I must tell you that I doubt it, as long as one comprehensive unification and codification of this legislation is not carried out. Like this, we're only doing something partial. This will be like an interphase of a future phase, which we don't even know when it's going to come to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-19-0.u19827	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. There are no more entries on the lists of MPs for the word. Before the principled search was concluded, all the presidents and representatives had already spoken, someone who did not exercise his right under Article 93? No, I don't. I only owe Mr. Stevovic a notice: I accept responsibility because all these laws did not come to the agenda, because I really meant exactly what happened, to give the opportunity, because of the importance you pointed out, to all MPs that they could take boards and you saw, as Mr. Jojic testified, a whole series of amendments were given throughout the year. Then it's in peace. It is a great pleasure that today we all agree on some of the qualities of some laws. So I hope it's done well, if you don't mind. Thank you. I am concluding a joint principled search on the Code of Criminal Code Proposal, a draft law on juvenile offenders and criminal protection of minors, a draft law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, a draft law on the Protection Programme for Participants in criminal proceedings and a draft law on amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure. We continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours, discussing the principle of points 11 and 12, so, about veterinary and agency. For the sake of your time schedule, tomorrow we will only work until the end of this principle debate, we will not move on to a debate in the details of any other point. Thank you.
