ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11284	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 125 members of Parliament. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 84 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from being attended by MP Dragoljub Kojcic. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF POSTANICAL SERVICES (the follow-up in particular) The National MP Verica Radeta submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11285	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of the proposed law. I received an explanation from the government of the Republic of Serbia, whose work is very well known as the position of the Serbian Radical Party, we have a critical attitude and a very poor opinion. The proof of this is the work of the Ministry of Ilic and the explanation which, at the very least, is offensive to me as a national representative, and to the citizens of Serbia, that any government body, and especially the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministry, are thus correspondence with us MPs, i.e. giving us an answer to the amendment submitted. The amendment was rejected because the Government of the Republic of Serbia said that by accepting my amendment, imagine, please, it would lead to state isolation. I repeat again, the amendment to the postal service law and the acceptance of amendments by MP Natasa Jovanovic would lead to state isolation. I ask you, did you receive the manners of Vuk Draskovic, who is a completely strange man and no longer knows what he's saying, which we could see yesterday through all the media, what he was saying as foreign minister in the NATO Pact headquarters. I ask you if such an explanation of the government has anything to do with it, or if you have accepted the manners of Richard Boucher, who, on behalf of the US administration, welcomed you in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when he said that because of what they say, non-cooperation with The Hague tribunal, and who are asking that four Serbian generals and all the more prominent Serbs be delivered to the anti-Serbian UN tribunal, some $10m assistance is denied, intended mainly for the Kandic women, Biserko and others from so-called NGOs. What was I looking for with the amendment? (From the site: Theme. ) The fact that he is calling out "the topic", "the topic", let him prepare himself for this topic, let him reason, understand, and let him understand that the president of the party, and it is the Serbian Renewal Movement, Vuk Draskovic is not a normal man and that he is ashamed of the vast majority of citizens who are such a foreign minister, making us so confused and receiving wages here and in the NATO Pact, and from the Americans, that he is doing all that he does against the interests of the Serbian state and the people. As far as the subject is concerned, I wanted, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in Article 2 that this law does not directly implement international agreements, conventions and agreements. For all people who still follow the area of international agreements, ratification of conventions and contracts, I have such experience as a participant in the work of the Federal Assembly, which is now the Assembly of the State Community, it is clear that when the ratification of a particular agreement is carried out, that is, the contract resorts to it, of course, because it has signed it itself, that certain provisions apply and that it respects it. My intention was not to include it strictly in this postal service law, because this is understood in the part where these contracts and agreements are signed. Because I reasonably explained it in my amendment, wanting us to strictly adhere to our positive legal regulations, the way we need to establish our laws in any area. So it is the principled position of the Serbian Radical Party and something that is better for us in the future, and I have experienced such an insult, that this is how the Government of the Republic of Serbia responds to me and says: "it would be a state isolation"; and imagine, please, it would not be possible to go out of our country by mail, but only the postmen would deliver letters from Kragujevac to Belgrade and from Subotica to Piroth. Who's normal enough to believe a reason like this? It would be really hard to hit some, especially those who are willing to continue to dig and photocopy forged documents in favour of Carla del Ponte and The Hague tribunal, to send trucks and load false documents, so that Serbs would smile and send to the anti-Serbian The Hague tribunal. I think that all of you should pay attention, especially to those who are on the Committee, who have considered the issue of my amendment and other amendments, that something like this is not happening in the future and that, in this way, the representatives of the Government, or the resolution ministry, are not addressing the MPs, because not only has nothing to do with the truth, but everything that I told you earlier, which is what our people are facing in these difficult moments. And not to make such explanations the MPs, because they are looking for something that is better and the more normal practice in our legislation, in this way they are, slightly, branded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11286	Anyone else want a word? There's a word from MP Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11287	Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to explain in my own way the amendment submitted by Miss Natasa Jovanovic. I think it makes sense and it needs to be accepted. Article 2 The bill reads: "Postal services are provided on the basis of contracts, in accordance with the law, general conditions for the provision of postal services, special conditions for the provision of postal services and other acts by postal operators, as well as on the basis of international conventions, contracts, agreements and other international acts". The amendment submitted by Miss Natasa Jovanovic predicts that the last part of the text, which refers to "International Conventions, Agreements and Contracts", is deleted. Let me remind you, the bill was submitted here by the government. The assembly will probably adopt him. General terms are prescribed by the agency, which you will also vote here. Special conditions are prescribed by the postal operator. All these acts, and the law, and specific and general conditions are adopted on the basis of, among other things, those international conventions, contracts, agreements, etc. Therefore, there is no need to be so explicitly stated in this law international agreements, agreements, conventions and other international acts, if we already use all these acts to pass laws, to bring these conditions, either in general, or in particular, which are adopted for the provision of postal services. We believe that this makes sense and that the proposing should consider accepting this amendment. It's about our domestic legislation. We make laws for our terms, we also use some international agreements, agreements, etc., what is positive in them, which we will use, but we will not quote these agreements in the text of the law. I ask you once again to consider accepting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11288	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11289	If we come from the text of your Constitutional Charter, you have stated in one article that the international law and those obligations made by the state union and the former SRJ, the former SFRJ, have primate in relation to our internal rights. If so, then it extends practically above the entire internal law of the Republic of Serbia. But we have not submitted the amendment because of it, but we have submitted the amendment because Article 2 contains something that could be characterized by grandmothers and frogs. This article, or sentence, begins with words - postal services are provided on the basis of a contract. So, the aim of this article is to define what is the legal basis for postal service, and this same member ends - as well as on the basis of international conventions, contracts, agreements and other international acts. The start refers to the legal basis of the relationship between the consignor and the postal service provider, and the end refers to the legal basis of co-operation between postal service providers, i.e. the domestic legal person involved in the business and any legal person involved abroad. You did not realize that in Article 2 you confused the pots and the subject of the legal basis on which legal services are provided on the route of the provider, so what do you say, and the natural person who is the sender or recipient, you ended up with a relationship between the two, if I may say so, the operator, those who cooperate. In that sense, Natasa Jovanovic is absolutely right when she says that your reasoning is offensive why you do not accept any amendment. Since this formulation, as a phrase and as one flossula without any basis, appears in almost all of our regulations that are proposed to the National Assembly, I think we should make a commitment to the government to make a document for us. We have this point, sixth or seventh, about some harmonisation plan, about some law, but obviously that's not enough. It has to come out with one clear attitude - what do they all mean by phrases like this? What these phrases mean for a concrete life in the Republic of Serbia, both in terms of rights and in terms of obligations, both in terms of real conditions and in terms of possibilities, and in terms of perspective, because following such phrases as are raised to the level of illusions, believe me, the collision with reality is so painful that it is not surprising that with 60 and some percent of the citizens who have gone to elections, we are in a situation that maybe even 30% of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia do not show interest in political life. Simply, people are forced to put up with anything or maybe those citizens in time noticed that it's just simple phrases that don't mean anything, just subroutines, mental swings and some other manipulations. In this regard, an amendment has been tabled, the proposings sobered up, looked at and directed in time and space. You can't put everything in the law. If you care so much about this international co-operation, why didn't you do it as a special member? This is how you made a mix that doesn't mean anything, after all. That you put this in the basic principles on the basis of which postal services are provided, so that it is somewhat understood, but within the legal basis between whoever provides the service and whoever is the sender or recipient, you have inserted something that regulates the relationship between two service providers, with foreign elements.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11290	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Transport and Connection Committee has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Transport and Connection Committee has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11291	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Group, the amendment was submitted to Article 3 paragraph 1(2) by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic and asked for words to be deleted in point 2) at affordable prices. It's unclear why the government put something like this in the bill. It is also unclear how the Traffic Committee could refuse such an amendment, because in itself, when you say that a service will be at affordable prices, it absolutely means nothing. What is accessible to someone today in Serbia to one category of citizens, another category of citizens is not. It all depends on personal receipts and personal affinities, so when you enter into the law words that don't mean anything, it's better that you don't do it. It's better to go without it, because it seems like it's just a promise, that you practically want to wash yourself in public, say, yes, introduce more operators, it'll all be wonderful and wonderful and everyone will be able to afford it. You know that from day to day in Serbia there are more and more poor people, more and more those who will not be able to afford these services. Here there are no objective and concrete criteria - whether or not they will be accessible - none. Also, you can't see who will determine what will be accessible, whether it will be determined by the directors at PTT, someone at the agency, a member of the agency, whether it will determine the advice that will run the agency. So this is completely unnecessary. It is mentioned in several other members - affordable prices, but all in all, no concrete connection to the law or anything else. It would be good if there was a minister, so if he could explain what this means, possibly accept this amendment, but it looks like he stayed longer at this meeting with the IMF, it looks like he came himself and had a lot to tell us. I ask you to reconsider this amendment, because indeed, as did the previous amendment given by Ms Natasa Jovanovic and which represents no doubt a legal improvement, these are amendments that are absolutely not touched by the essence of the law, but only being corrected and shortened legally. I think you should accept this anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11292	Thank you. National MP Zoran Krasic, followed by the MP Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11293	This could be interpreted as a failed attempt to translate something that means "accessible" in Western European terminology. If you had used any other word, which might be synonym for this word, it would have been somewhat understandable and acceptable. If you'd said a guaranteed price, a controlled price, a tariff price, a benefit price, that would have been accepted. This is how it is stated that it is an integral part of the concept of universal postal service, not only postal services that are constantly provided throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia under equal conditions for all users of the prescribed quality. So, an integral part of that notion of universal postal service is also an affordable price. It's probably meant for a price that would be available to any postal service user. So to the one who sends, who receives, when we come from the simplest service, from one common letter and one postcard. When you give such an undefined term and then even more vaguely try to define it, and you tried it in Article 12, and I have to tell you in Article 66, point 11 point 11, where you said that it was in the jurisdiction of that new agency of yours and determining the heading for the universal postal service. Therefore, that affordable price is found in the tariff item. If it is found in the tariff item, then it is the prescribed price, not the affordable price. In the definition of this universal postal service and the great lack of your bill proposal, it is that you did not specify which services, in plain language, therefore, acceptable and understandable to all of us in terms of postcards, letters, letters, letters, to make it clear to people, because this is how you covered up some reserved, unreserved and other services, that is to say that now that everyone goes to the post office knows whether it's universal or some other special type of postal service. You see, that you said at the prescribed price, that you had used a term, at a subsidized price, a team before you listed one in article 2 of the universal postal service, and in article 12, you said, therefore, that is, being done continuously in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. And now we're going back to what we talked about yesterday. So it's a job behind the jurisdiction of the state. This looks at the public authority that you are transferring to a public company that needs to do postal services. The state carries its responsibility and its authority. The government of the Republic of Serbia guarantees that these services are being performed throughout the territory continuously, in accordance with these provisions, where delivery deadlines are two days, five days, as treated by the lost, with an unscheduled shipment, within which deadlines. And there is no provision whatsoever that the state guarantees this law something that the Constitution prescribes, which is the secrecy of the letter. So it's guaranteed to every citizen as his right. You didn't put that right into technical norms, did you? If you put everything in technical norms, then we don't need this law. Now mail has its general terms on which, of course, consent is given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, they are prescribed by these so-called standardised contractual relations, by accessing where the party comes and asks for a particular service, immediately on general terms, the obligations of the sender, the recipient and the one doing the service from one place to another are known. So this term "access price" is probably a failed translation of something that doesn't mean anything in our language. Let me warn you, in a similar way, it was done when the Public Procurement Act was passed. It was only after two months that they found that they were wrong to translate from Slovenian. There's probably some sort of translation error here, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11294	The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11295	I'll try to say a few more words about this amendment. I think it makes sense to accept this, because it's about mere copying. Behind the arguments received from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is why this amendment is not accepted, it is clear that a directive of the European Union on postal services has literally been rewritten. This may make sense in Europe, however, I don't think it makes sense for us to be standing like this in the law, that term, or the word "accessible prices". It is unclear who will and based on which parameters to determine what prices are available for Serbian citizens, for postal service users. We know that social differences are extremely large between individual categories of our citizens and therefore these prices are also different, so they are also accessible to our citizens. If you start from the point of view of the directors mentioned yesterday in this public enterprise who, the minister said, have enormously high salaries, then some prices for other citizens can be affordable. You need to know that a huge number of postal service users, a huge number of these people don't get any profits, they're unemployed, they're fired or they're getting some minimum income, and they have to use mail services. Whether or not the prices that someone will prescribe here will be affordable is a big question. So we think that this word should have been omitted, and if we wanted to be consistent and to analyze the word "quality" completely, then that word implies a price. So if, in defining the universal service, it has to be available on equal terms for all users of the prescribed quality, then it also includes the price, because the quality carries the price. Then this is a double and it's unnecessary to enter this particular -- an affordable price, and especially what that price is, so that's a term that's undefined. There's one more thing I'd like to say as a remark, it's a little odd what the government wrote in an explanation here. I am saying, although it is clear that the Proposer has written a literal and literal directive of the European Union on postal services, the amendment is not accepted here in the context of the Vladed amendment because the definition of universal postal service in the European Union postal services directive is fully in line with the definition set out in the Post Law proposal. Based on this argument, it turns out that the Europeans have copied this definition from us and that they have complied with our regulations simply so that man doesn't believe.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11296	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11297	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Deputy, we have previously claimed that the bill should not contain those concepts that are not measurable. We had laws where it was said that in some council or body, which is responsible for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, people will be chosen from an exceptional reputation, a confirmed reputation. That can't be defined. What cannot be prescribed by clear criteria should not be found in the law. Mrs. Pop-Lazic's amendment goes that way. The term "access price" is completely imprecise to be found in the law. So an affordable price cannot be defined by anything without being measurable and accessible to all citizens on equal terms. What's affordable for someone else isn't. So, the SPS will support this amendment because there is a practice in parliament that we are fighting that norm cannot prescribe something that is not clear criteria set out earlier. I understand the argument written that the European Union directive is in that sense, but this can be a source of abuse. So nothing means an affordable price. When the postal services market is fully demonolysed in 2009, then, of course, the notion of an affordable price in universal service will define that operator who fought for that market in a way that, first of all, corresponds to his understanding of this job, and we said what mail and services it does to citizens. Just for a little while, based on what Mr. Krasic said in article 6. I'm sorry, it's not about this amendment, it's about the secrecy of the letter. A little attention is paid to all of this, even in some other areas. That's what I was saying here at the Telecommunications Act. Today, if we take October 5, 2000 as a rapper, that's not how I feel about it, but apparently a large number of you understands it, today there is a room called the SUP splitter in every main phone station in Serbia. The key to that room is state security operatives. They come to that room on someone's account and they intercept relationships. That, too, ladies and gentlemen, can happen with a letter, not to elaborate, because I don't want to compromise an important profession and an important organization. That is why this topic should be given special attention, and in this respect I support what Mr Krasic said, because it truly advocates democracy, among other things, means these two things, that there is no interception of electronic ties, that there is a right to the non-vulnerability of mail, letters, etc., that there are some other rights guaranteed by the Constitution and that should be confirmed by democratic practice. That's why every one of these laws has to be taken care of, and what I've been saying about the SUP Division, some security committee members are asking, at the first session of the Committee that's closed, how this thing works. It works like it always does, unfortunately, listens to whoever it wants. Do you always have a court order? That's a question for someone else. Those who are civilian control in that service may establish. I responsibly claim that practice has a completely different experience.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11298	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović submitted and withdrew the amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11299	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3 first point 20). With this amendment, I asked that after saying "the postal operator is domestic or foreign" the words "a legal person who is directly a postal service provider". For reasons unknown to me, the Government, the competent minister and the Assembly Committee on Transport and Relations have not accepted this amendment. The most insubstantial argument was given by the government by rejecting this amendment. In fact, they said that if it was determined that postal operators could be only foreign or domestic legal entities, it would narrow down the number of potential entities that could deal with postal services and that in that case entrepreneurs could not deal with postal services. The question is, what is the interest of this government in passing this law? This is a law that abolishs the monopoly in this extremely important area, but it also raises the question whether parallel to the elimination of the monopoly in this area should bring order or lead to chaos. My opinion is that some minimum that is necessary, given that the postal operator is a postal service provider with the obligation to provide universal postal services, is done by legal persons. Do we want to have five or ten thousand entities to deal with the provision of postal services tomorrow? Whether we need thousands of operators from today to tomorrow, who are going to do this job ad hoc, or we want them to be legal persons who mean that they will deal with it in some continuity, that they will provide certain quality services, that they will provide certain protection, primarily for our citizens. When you look at the principles you have set out, which are based on regulating relations in the field of postal services, such as e.g. the provision of universal postal service of prescribed quality, the question arises whether it can be provided by an entrepreneur. If we look at the second principle of protection of the interest of postal service users, the question again arises whether this protection can be provided if postal services can be dealt with by an entrepreneur. Then, providing maximum quality, creating conditions for meeting needs, inviolability of postal senders and confidentiality of data. In what way will the government, the agency, in which way will the council care and protect the inviolability of the letters, what is the constitutional category? How do you think you provide quality? How do you think you can ensure continuity? I don't know if anywhere in the world there's a country where entrepreneurs can do postal services. I think it's really minimum for them to at least be registered as legal persons, and that means then some seriousness in that work, quality in work and continuity. Please reconsider this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11300	Anyone else want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11301	The constitution of the Republic of Serbia defines the right, and even freedom of information, in a good way, that any natural person can be a newspaper publisher. When a new Law on Public Information was adopted here in 2003, and then it is explicitly stated in the law in several members that only legal persons can be involved in the work of publishing newspapers. The most obvious opposite of one law with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is contained in those provisions of the Public Information Act. I'm talking about public information to make a parallel with the provision of postal services for one simple reason that informing is one of the democratic pillars, there is no freedom of man if there is censorship or abuse of public information. Refusing this amendment, the government wrote that it also implies entrepreneurs in this Article point 20, where it says, the postal operator is a domestic and foreign person who is a direct postal service provider. Under the domestic and foreign faces of the government, it means legal persons and entrepreneurs. We are asking for an amendment to specify that this is a legal person and we are not violating any provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, nor is anyone prevented from doing business or any activity on the market of the Republic of Serbia, but an organisational form may be a condition for the performance of certain activities, as is prescribed in other actions that some cannot perform independent natural persons or entrepreneurs, but must be the economy of society. It goes so far, it's said to be a stock company. Can an entrepreneur deal with bank business? He can't. It is said that a legal person must and must have the form of a shareholder society. Why does it only take legal faces to do that here? When it comes to definition – postal operator. For the simple reason that you are the same who are proposing this law in the same article in point 30) wrote down what you mean by the postal network, and you say this – the postal network consists of the units of postal networks and the resources used by the postal operator to provide postal services. How an entrepreneur can have a unit that provides postal services and has a branched postal network. It's impossible. If this is the way you felt you should satisfy one need, where PTT in some villages was quite justified in the houses of some peasants opening its own counters and units. That's another question that's not being solved by this definition. If you mean under these providers that attach and use and that are always in conflict with those from the post office, then that's another question, that's a completely different question. I don't understand why you didn't accept this amendment. With this amendment, we only point to what you have written in Article 3(1), which is a postal service that includes reception, sorting, transfer and extradition of postal shipments. In total, it's postal services, segmented it's something individual. It's not possible that our mail will collect and the entrepreneur will sort it out. Once upon a time there was, when the new year started, postcards, and then through the student security cooperative, and they sorted it out on those blocks, but that's the past. Why do you insist that in the words of both domestic and foreign faces there is both a legal person and an entrepreneur. As long as you keep defending it, it's not about stubbornness, it's about something we probably haven't found yet between the lines of the bill. Maybe it's in total of all the property and other problems that our mail is burdened with, and which even changed color, it used to be yellow-black, and now it's black-looking.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11302	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Milajić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11303	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 8 of this proposal provides for the use of postal services through the proxies and that the power of attorney may be certified by the competent national authority or by the postal operator. The Institute of Welfare may arise on the basis of contracts, laws, statutes of a legal person or a judicial decision. The Institute of Powers by its legal nature is the institute related to certain persons and belongs to the so-called so-called Institute of Law. kind of legal business intuittu personae. The power of attorney implies that powers are transferred to the power of attorney and that he is taking certain legal actions, and the more the warrant here than the classical power of attorney, because there is no taking legal action here, but taking action, taking over certain postal shipments and letters. The SRS amendment adds the 4th position, which provides that a power of attorney not certified by a postal operator must be deposited with a postal operator. This was, above all, done for a reason to specify this Article 8 or to legally regulate Article 8 of this Act. In practice, there is a problem of orderly delivery of letters and shipments, and above all recommended shipments by judicial authorities, state authorities, by legal entities. In the case of legal entities, the legal representative is usually the director of the company and it is common in practice that the director of the company at the time of delivery of the recommended consignment is not in the premises of the company, where delivery should be made. He's got the company seal with him. The arrival of the shipment is carried out by one of the officers in the company itself, and is not authorized to receive the recommended shipment. A problem arises in a judicial, administrative or infringement procedure, a problem of validity of delivery, whether delivery of the consignment is carried out in a legally valid manner or not, and which is once again checked by the delaying of the various court proceedings being conducted. We believe that this amendment should be accepted, because it only specifies the Institute of power and orderly delivery of letters.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11304	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger, Ilic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11305	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 9(2). Proposal for a postal service law. The amendment reads: "Article 9(2) instead of the words "Republic Postage Services Agency" should stand – "the Ministry responsible for postal services affairs". The SRS is against the establishment of agencies, as the ministry is both human and materially qualified, and is responsible for these jobs. At the same time, the agency will require the involvement of new funds in the Republic's budget, and under the bill, postal operators will have to allocate part of the agency's funding revenue, which will negatively reflect the quality of services. In particular, when it comes to this law, there are several reasons why the SRS finds the agency unnecessary and requires only additional funds, and in this case also the means of postal operators, which could otherwise have a more useful purpose. In Article 9(2), the Republic postal service agency appears and for the first time in this law. It is reported by clarifying the role of the agency as an authority which, behold, should prescribe even a minimum of working time. Nothing without an agency, and the agency, as an independent regulatory body, the minister, directly from the ministry, with staff, will literally move to PTT, as he said yesterday that the agency staff will make up employees from his ministry and will pay for the post office. So the minister got rid of paying for the ministry's work, and the agency's workers transferred to PTT to wait there for a few years for someone to declare them a technological surplus. The SRS therefore believes that jobs now attributed to the Republic postal service agency should be performed by the ministry responsible for postal services.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11306	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11307	If you have predicted that working time should determine this new agency of yours and that it is such a significant business of public interest, why did you not set working hours for the relevant member of the bill? I think it is stated in the previous law from when to when the mail must be opened, precisely because it needs to be continued throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia to carry out certain activities and to provide certain services, and because the state guarantees, it either prescribes it by law or to agree to some of the general acts of the public undertaking that it has formed to do the job. I don't know where this wealth of ideas comes from, in the answers, or in the government's views of our amendments, you bring things up, like. In addition to this flat-rate invitation to some directives, etc., an independent regulatory body, I told you yesterday that it means nothing, you have stated that the Government of the Republic of Serbia also considers that the solution was given in the Bill on Post Offices in accordance with the resolution on EU accession, adopted at the first session of the Second Regular Session in 2004 at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 13 October 2004. Ask all MPs here if they voted for the postal service agency when voting on this accession resolution. I'm telling you that no one voted because of the postal service agency, which will later be singled out by breaking up the existing postal traffic law. With this explanation, you are putting those people who voted in favour of this resolution in an awkward position. If you had said before the vote on the resolution that, voting for this resolution, that means that 350 agencies will be formed, 450 offices, 670 outposts, that it will stretch out, that it will cost so much, that this will cost the cheap, that this will collect, that so many people will be out of work, no one will raise your hand for that resolution in the National Assembly. In addition, he says, "If the proposed amendment would have the ministry responsible for postal services, as an executive authority, taken over as an independent regulatory body... "; we are not giving you the function of an independent regulatory body with this amendment, but we are just returning you back to the track that the competent state authority should do tasks from the jurisdiction of the state. He says, "There could be a strengthening of the monopolies position of the operator." You forgot, the public postal transport company is the company of the Republic of Serbia. The founding, property rights on behalf of the Republic of Serbia are being exercised by the government. The government is setting up a board of directors, the government through the board of directors of its Public Postal Transport Company and in other ways participates in Telecom and Mobtel and not to order the entire system of dependent companies further. If you think you need to break up that company, then do it quickly, don't do it like this. It's so illogical. Now, the government's good for us, if the amendment were to be accepted, the state-owned company would be strengthened. The amendment, which we're asking the state to do a state-run job with a public firm has absolutely nothing to do with it. This is about one natural monopoly. If you want to include others who are capable of doing this job so well, then it's the second time, it's not the way to burn, so I guess something's gonna come up. It started in 2001, like, Serbia is waking up, moving, and in order for it to start, it should all be fried. Everyone who thought like that is in the back row. It can only be said once that they are doing something to this end for two or three months, and it immediately goes as a boomerang condemnation of citizens, not as voters, but those people who have to suffer these locks and these excursions how to join something that nobody knows what it is or how it is. So don't insult the MPs by calling for a resolution and don't raise your hands from the companies you're in charge of.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11308	The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11309	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 9 by the SRS parliamentary group is the disseminating of our concept in relation to the concept of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which it submitted to the National Assembly for adoption. Mr. Ilic, the competent minister, the minister of capital investment, told the speaker yesterday that what is new in this bill is one of the basic reasons why the law is proposed to the National Assembly and why the law should be adopted, the establishment of a postal service agency, as an independent non-party body. The condition is for the agency to be professional and non-partisan members. First, the SRS cannot agree with the concept of forming an agency. As we have submitted amendments to your previous draft laws, so have we on this bill of postal services. We are fundamentally different and we believe that the competent ministry should do these jobs without having to form an agency or for some previous laws of directors etc. What is the essence of this proposal and what the minister said is that the conditions in that agency, as you imagine, are professional and impartial members -- cannot be, above all, impartial and independent; because by the very fact that you will vote them by the will of the majority you have in this assembly, that means that they are dependent on the majority in this assembly, on those parties that make up the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So they'll be dependent on the DSS and all the other patriarchs in that coalition government. That story can't stand. We disagree with this concept and Article 9 shows a fundamental difference, i.e. why all of our amendments are unnecessary for the establishment of the agency. We think we need the D.O.D. to deal with these matters. Especially around the agency council's salary, which will be higher, for example, on average will be eight average salaries in Serbia, which means that members of the council may, in practice, have ten times the salary. That's what the minister himself said in yesterday's presentation. It speaks of the nature of this law. That is why we believe that the government has shown little desire, has not accepted amendments to the SRS. It's going some way that's not good. This law is passed with the aim of making it quick, and the reasons for the law being passed are very clear to you, and so are we. Serbian citizens will have more damage than the benefits of this law, if the gabuds vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11310	Thank you. The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11311	This is the first member to mention the postal service agency. We intervened with the amendment, because our concept is very different. Of course, by the end of this text there will be many other members who mention the agency and many of our amendments. We will, of course, react to all these amendments and give more arguments in favour of our concept, or more arguments we want to prove, not the majority you have in this Parliament, but to the citizens of Serbia, how much these agencies, or most of the agencies, voted here today, are harmful to the Republic of Serbia. Namely, here the promoter said that the agency is an independent regulatory body and that it must be independent, because it is the only way to guarantee that there will be no more monopoly, but that the postal service market will be liberal. Yesterday I said and repeat, how will this body be independent if members of the agency's council are proposed by the government? I just can't believe the government is going to propose someone who at least doesn't favor any of the parties that belong to the ruling majority. If he is not a formal member of any of these parties, he must be a fan of some of them, or politically favored by one of them. Therefore, there is no question of independence. The government will propose and the body will be adopted by the assembly majority, i.e. vote it and elected here in parliament. Thus, this body will be politically tied to the congregation’s majority, or government. Also, it explains, this is rewritten from the European Union Post Office Directive, that this solution is in agreement with the European Union's accession resolution, adopted by this parliament last year. Speaking of joining the European Union, I must remind you that yesterday's news on our media said that yesterday or today a new EU accession commissioner has come to Serbia, or as it is already called, who has said that only since 2009, Serbia may be on its way to joining the European Union. By 2009 under the bill, this job on market liberalisation must be completed. By 2009, and that minimum monopoly that will have a public operator will simply be excluded. So there won't be any more monopoly. Since 2009, all operators will be equal on the market, as far as these postal services are concerned. It also explains if, as Mr Krasic pointed out, the ministry was doing these tasks, there would be a strengthening of the monopolitical position of the state-owned operator. I ask the question, is the goal of this country to strengthen those operators that are not owned by it, or is, perhaps, some goal that is not directly written here, but between the lines can be found, that some circles close to the authorities take over that monopoly in the provision of postal services. I think that's the basic intensity of this proposal and that we should think carefully about when it comes to this agency. The ministry has enough personnel, enough strength, enough professional people, who can do these jobs quite correctly and quite solidly. You will see later in other members how many arguments there are for this claim. One amendment at a time, we'll explain and expound here. I ask once again that the promoter think about this, because it is not enough and will not be able to make our way to the European Union just to rewrite European regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11312	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Transport and Connection Committee has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's Messenger Lazar Cavic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11313	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my esteemed colleague, Mr Darko Glisic, has tabled an amendment to the Post Office Bill, which reads: "Article 12(1) of the words "at affordable prices" are deleted. As in the amendment to Article 3 paragraph 1(2), the definition of universal postal services is only repeated here. So, what is the minimum set of postal services? That graduation was to be introduced into the law, so that there wouldn't be a flat rate by the operator. The level of our economic indicators, I mean the standard, can't meet this member as said here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11314	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? There's a word from MP Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11315	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in yesterday's debate in principle, Serbian Radical Party MPs, the Serbian Radical Party MPs said that if you adopt amendments to the Serbian Radical Party, we did not say that we would vote for the law – you would vote and vote the law, because I suppose you'll get the majority, since there are not half of you now as long as you need them – but that the law will at least be a little bit applicable and at least a little bit like the law. National MP Darko Glisic has tabled an amendment to delete the words "accessible" in article 12. I would like someone and our MPs here in the Assembly Hall and the citizens of Serbia to say what is the term "accessible price"? Who's the one who's going to determine "price accessibility"? We have in this law further that it will be an agency, that it will then determine the price. Which are the arches which will determine the accessibility of the price. It's something that's for the minister, which is for his cabinet, something that's accessible for the Prime Minister. For Serbian citizens, who have been suffering hungry, naked and barefoot for four years, almost a million people are on the bureau and are receiving nothing, and one dinar is "unaccessible price", because they do not have a single dinar. Of course, postal services have to be paid. It's normal that the price has to be determined. It's crazy not to say a more difficult word in the law, to put the term "accessible price" in the legal act. To make the law look like law, I believe that this and all amendments of the Serbian Radical Party should be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11316	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Transport and Connection Committee has not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragan Colic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11317	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 14. I ask that instead of saying - the Republic Post Office stands - the Ministry. It is certain that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the parliamentary majority will vote in favour of this bill on postal services, because something must be done. It is not important and primarily whether it is beneficial for the citizens of Serbia or not, whether it will introduce any order in the area of postal services. Simply, the Serbian Parliament needs to discuss something. The SRS parliamentary group has expressed its position on the matter of the agencies and we have repeatedly advocated the SRS concept that does not contain agencies. The question arises - whether the agencies are a rational solution, why these jobs are not done by the ministry, when they are already human and materially qualified for it. Is the establishment of the agency meaningful, when it is known to be a new burden on the Republic of Serbia's budget? The question arises as to who is interested and why the budget should be burdened with new unnecessary imposes. Whether postal operators will have the motivation to provide quality services if offered in the bill that they too will have to allocate part of their revenue to finance what the SRS finds unnecessary, irrational, pointless, and it is an agency. What will be the motivation of postal operators? He'll probably be thrilled and can't wait for the law to come into practice. We have an example, it may be a bit anachronic, but it's active because of a certain group of people working on fleas, working during the cold, in inadequate conditions. The second question is for those people who have become rich in one way or another, so they have thighs where it's warm. For example, on the flea of the established fiscal register, people come complaining, the poor regiment, the poor, and he says -- we can't even push, our hands are so frozen that we can't even work with that fiscal register. But someone didn't hear about it. Very often, the Republika Srpska Assembly adopts laws that, instead of making improvements in certain areas of society, create chaos and indignation for citizens. The government of the Republic of Serbia would have to have a little more hearing about the situation in the country and to respect what is vital to the people and the state. Addressing the problem in the field of postal services is necessary, but it is not primary. I wish this assembly could discuss problems that depend on the survival of nations and states.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11318	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11319	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are with Article 14. We have already come to the situation that we must again criticise the legislative projects and the proposals that you are proposing back a few months. She caught this depraved DOS some agency, because every law forms an agency, every ministry forms an agency for every job and the agency employs party members. I accept that people must provide for their membership, and their membership suffers a general shortage and a general social misery that has affected Serbia, but not in every law. This agency you are proposing will employ a non-profit of several thousand people safely in Serbia; instead, it will work at the agency. The SRS and MP Dragan Colic, on behalf of the SRS, suggested that in this member, the SRS MPs in other members, the agency deletes and that the ministry continues to run affairs, and the ministry also has professional and trained personnel to carry out jobs. What is done specifically about the ministry when you were sharing -- when the odors share the treasure, so the appetites of the minister's candidates grew, and they didn't have enough personnel in their or brotherly parties, and then they merged four very important ministries, large and vital interests for Serbia, together four ministries into one, and that ministry turned out to be too massive, that's the problem of that parliamentary group and that party that the ministry took. Stop making non-profit institutions where you will employ bureaucracy, which will spread by becoming two, of four, from one bureaucrat in a month. I've already said it once in my discussion, bureaucracy spreads like amoeba, reproduces incessantly, by division. Don't burden this Serbia, it's barely breathing anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11320	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11321	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 16. It's an area that edits universal postal services. This amendment in Article 16(2) changes and reads: "The public postal operator is obliged to ensure the density of access places that meet the needs of users and in line with technological and economic development. "Why have I submitted this amendment? I have submitted for the reason that this member is undefined, indeterminate, vague, confusing, and the law as a general legal act, as well as all its members, must be accurate, precise, defined and applicable in practice, and therefore I propose that the Government accept this amendment that I have tabled on the draft law. Article 16(2) states that other persons, on the basis of a contract, on behalf of and for the account of a postal operator, may also perform certain services in the domain of a universal postal service. The question arises - what are the persons, which are services that can be provided on the basis of such a contract, on whose behalf and for whose account and what is the purpose of the licence for public postal operators, because it is very confusing and undefined. Otherwise, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in an explanation where it is not precisely defined, has provided that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that leaving out the part of a member which allows a public postal operator to negotiate the provision of certain postal services on his behalf and for his account with another person does not transfer the right to perform a universal postal service. So it's not exactly defined, but it's kind of casually passed, which can't make the bill of quality. I therefore propose that this amendment be accepted by the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11322	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? MP Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11323	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should really think about this amendment because it makes sense and I don't think it would be good to keep this solution proposed in the text of the bill. In this regard, it is stated in Article 2(6) that other persons may, on the basis of a contract on behalf of and at the expense of a public operator, perform certain tasks, certain services in the domain of universal postal services. It seems to me that this may have been done with the intention of dragging someone else into the mailing service door, to drag in people who are related to those who issue permits, conditions, to get to the part of a cookie called the postal service market. I think this is a place for corruption, and for that reason, I think this amendment should be accepted. In the context of the Government's argument, it is clear that this article, which is provided for in the Bill, allows a public postal operator to negotiate the provision of certain postal services on his behalf and for his account with other persons. The logical question arises, so why the permits? If the bill states that postal services can only be provided on the basis of the permits issued by the Agency, then the question arises as to why such permits should a public operator be able to engage on the basis of a contract by a person, i.e. an entrepreneur, in order to perform certain postal services. Then the meaning of the license is lost and then it's pointless to talk about the permits. It clearly states in the bill that in order to provide universal services, a licence should be obtained, and in order to provide these unreserved services in order to obtain approval. So some kind of permit must exist in any case, and with this other Article 16 position, it leaves to the public operator to engage on the basis of the other person's contract to perform certain postal services. Those persons do not need permission and it is clear that this is a place for corruption, because these jobs will be obtained by those persons who are in a certain relationship with the managers of this postal operator. I think, for these reasons, that this amendment should accept or at least specify that a public operator can perform on the basis of a contract, provide certain jobs, but not perform certain postal services, means that certain transactions are different in the context of postal services, but do not provide services for which authorisation is provided.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11324	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11325	We are trying to convince these amendments to the MPs that this is essentially one papazian, one set of scattered concepts and areas that when they are given nothing, and in this context is this amendment to Article 17, which I asked for Article 3 to be deleted, i.e. the words "Republic Post Office" to be replaced by "The Ministry". The first two attitudes regulate the time when postal services are performed, not less than five days a week. The second position refers to the possible interruption and suspension of the postal service and the third position relates to the situation when specific circumstances and specific geographical conditions arise. At that time, there is a possibility that the Republic postal service agency will arrange for a different provision of universal postal services. In order to understand what a universal postal service is in this papal definition, I will use the argument set out in the bill. The universal postal service is provided by a public postal operator and other postal operators can perform a universal postal service other than reserved on the basis of a licence. So, the public postal operator doesn't need permission or anything, he has both his license and his license, and he can do this independently, and he owns that network. Article 17 sets out a specific geographical condition, and it is also contained in Article 18, where it is said what is meant under the rope, the wider and the fastest delivery area, depending on whether it is point 1), 2) or (3), the deadlines, or the periods in which delivery is to be carried out are also changed. In general, in this papaziania, it leads you to think when Article 3 of point 20 states that he is a postal operator, and now independent of our amendment, domestic or foreign person who is a direct provider of postal services. So when you compare all of this in a sense you'll see that there's a difference. This amendment concerns this independent regulatory body and is used as a broadcasting council. The work of media, electronic media and work or jobs in postal traffic is incompatible. Radio-diffusion, media, it's one of the pillars on which democracy is based, including the freedom of every citizen and individual, his right to receive timely, accurate and impartial information, to provide information, and there's no such thing here. Here is a service that can be widely viewed as a business activity. And why the independent regulatory body? In order to abolish the broadcasting council political monopoly in the media, one natural monopoly is abolished by the wrong means, while there is a obligation to maintain the company. I did not purposely specify what you wrote in Article 15(2) who has the exclusive right to use the word "mail". It would be better for you to withdraw this law, because there are so many inaccuracies, inconsistencies and bad solutions, where there is greater damage than this law, than to resuscitate our mail in existing conditions. Take care of it. It's not good to cut a 500-pound ox for two kilos of liver, and that's exactly what you're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11326	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government has accepted the amendment, the Transport and Connection Committee has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11327	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, in every article where the word "age" is mentioned, will stand by the amendment of the SRS to replace the word "agency" with the word "ministration" for reasons that, defending one of the amendments, I said for a moment. The reasons are absolutely the same and the reasons can be absolutely the same. The Republican postal service agency is a parasitic organization that you're loading on the back of the Serb people. This will normally have to increase the price of postal services. Thus, normally, it will be able to jump the salary of all those you will hire in the agencies, and thus normal citizens of Serbia will, for every postcard, for every letter, for every telegram, for every service provided by the post office, be poorer for any dinar. I'm just wondering if you're going to advertise this agency on those yellow sides of your post office and phone numbers register. You've begun to yellow me a lot, gentlemen of the ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11328	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11329	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 21(2) of the Law on Postal Services. The bill states: "Tariff views are determined by the Republic of the postal service agency". I suggest that the words "Republic Agency" be deleted and replaced by the corresponding ministry. In fact, the SRS is not only against this agency, which is called the agency, which my colleagues have already pointed out several times, but because the formation of the agency imposes a huge obligation on Serbian citizens, i.e. to support these agencies. I'm not going to attack the agency for those reasons my colleagues already did it for, I'm just going to remind you that yesterday the minister in explaining the bill said that the agency should employ 18% of the total staff, I'm free to say, in four ministries. It's a very large number. The agency will not become more efficient and operational with a few employees, but 18% of the total number of employees in four ministries, although it is now one ministry. Investment investments for the start of the agency require 2.500,000 dinars and for operational work requires 1,900,000 dinars, which is a total of 4,400,000 at the monthly level. We would sooner be willing to accept, as a fellow MP asked the minister yesterday, to make one post office in Cačka, but not only in Cačka, it can also be in other places, to improve the conditions, to direct those funds there. I guess yesterday most postmen expected to get new uniforms, and, of course, new shoes, because that's what the minister promised. No, all funds collected through this agency will go into the pockets of those who are employed there, these 18% from the ministry, and probably another number, which will be employed by party activists. You saw, and you could read in one of the daily papers, that the resolute minister successfully reconciled the best man and best man. We expect he'll probably propose at one of the next sessions to the godmother reconciliation agency. Maybe that wouldn't be bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11330	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović, as well as by Article 22, but both amendments were withdrawn. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11331	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 42 which points to all the nonsense of passing one of these laws. Article 42 provides for the obligation of all postal service users to set up mailboxes. The first position of this disputed member 42, which I asked to delete, reads: "In the delivery area of the unit of the postal network investors, i.e. owners of residential buildings, apartments and business facilities are obliged to place home boxes at the entrance to the apartment building, business facility, courtyard or otherwise. Keeping home mailboxes is the obligation of the owners of the respective facilities." This is the essence of one such member in 42 who obliges postal service users to have mailboxes. I ask a question, what if they don't? Does this mean that a letter, a greeting or some other type of postal service will not be delivered to them? In order to go further into this senselessness and leave room for abuse, this is evident from Article 42, Article 2, which reads: "Home cases must be designed according to the technical conditions prescribed by the Republic postal service agency and set up in a way that enables safe delivery of postal mail". The question is whether it's just dimensions, whether it's going to be a particular color and whether the agency, because the way you're in continuity, is going to do what the previous government did, to write in that decision who's going to be the producer of the mailboxes. The previous government did so during the fiscalisation, when they introduced the obligation of fiscal cash registers into all of the facilities dealing with some kind of sales or services, so they changed three or four times the provisions of what technical characteristics should have these fiscal cash registers, so they forced citizens and other participants in business transactions to buy one thing for two or three times, which cost 350 euros and up, and not to talk about who stole the most money there and who could only have a monopoly for importing such cash. Here, however, it's not such a expensive thing, but you might say that the mailbox costs 350 euros, and then you'll change the dimensions a little, five centimeters up, five inches down, and then you'll get them two or three times the citizens. When you're bored with it, then you're probably going to change colors in circles like that, as long as all possible desires and ambitions of individuals and your sponsors go along with this power.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11332	Anyone else want a word? The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11333	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, the amendment to Article 42 was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. It's strange how this government has the need to regulate certain things that are not at all regulated by law, as necessary, for example. Article 2 provides that postal services will be provided on the basis of international conventions and contracts, agreements and other international acts, although it is clear to anyone who has passed at least by law school that this material is regulated by other laws and that these provisions are certainly not the place in this law, nor do they have any fact. Because if, in another way, higher legal acts, this provision is regulated without any influence, while on the other hand you have shown great interest in making certain things, which should eventually be regulated by the rules, and we have heard from some speakers from the ruling coalition, that Slovenians, my God, have 24 regulations, such as box dimensions, put even into the law. It is the 42nd article that regulates who is obliged to keep the boxes, who is obliged to ask them, who should be what they should be and what sanctions will be for those who do not ensure that their boxes are these sizes, colors and all the characteristics that you think they should be. Whether they will not be subject to the principles that you have regulated in Article 4, whether or not you will provide postal services for them. Knowing how you used to behave, all of this reminds us too much of some other situations where you discovered golden coke, or you discovered a way to get the money of a large majority of citizens, and these are millions of mailboxes. If they kidnap 2, 3, 5 or 10 euros each, they are indeed extremely large funds. Will we have the situation again that we had when you introduced the obligation of the fiscal registers, whether it will repeat the situation for us when Mladjan Dinkic sold exchange exchange rates, which all had to be uniform. We have several cemeterys of those kiosks now in Belgrade, and in the meantime the situation has changed. That's the only way the exchange offices could have been opened. You used to charge those kiosks expensively, and only a few months later, citizens were forced to close those exchange offices and to throw the kiosks into the garbage dump. Whether or not these mailboxes will repeat the situation to us again, whether any new Chumes, Peconi or anyone like this will have to be authorized by the producer of mailboxes, of which, of course, all Serbia will have to buy. What's going to happen I don't know, but I don't think this is something that needs to be regulated by law, but that these details and finesse are much better regulated by the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11334	The word is made by the MP Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11335	Ladies and gentlemen, when I read Article 42, it is clear that the promoter has seen a lot of American action films, so probably brought in that obligation and into this law, that every yard has a mailbox and a mailbox and that in every house, there is this box, etc. It's not bad, and it would be nice if we had in every backyard and in the mailbox, and the mailman comes in and throws in a shipment, doesn't call the host and doesn't come in the house. But it doesn't seem like much of a matter to me for this law. On the other hand, when position 2 is read, the conclusion is that this is more designed to assign a job to the agency, only to justify its existence. In other words, the second point of view of this article states that the Republic postal service agency prescribes technical conditions according to which these mailboxes will be made. Imagine what these projects are going to be. Imagine the project of an agency, a state one, prescribes what a box of letters will look like. I think the basic question here is whether this matter is relevant and whether it belongs in this law or whether it belongs in the law. The issue is basic, which is the mechanism for imposing this obligation on Serbian citizens, how you will force people in villages to make these crates and put them on their gates. How are you going to force people in buildings who don't have boxes to build them and set them up? What about that, and look around Belgrade at how many of these housing buildings, where such boxes exist, are in the state they are in today; more than half of these boxes are broken and are no longer usable. It is not an essential question whether or not it should be done, the key question is the mechanism of how and how to oblige Serbian citizens to implement it and to do it. It's a place of one of these provisions in the Law on the Construction of Objects, not in this law. It means to commit to an investor when he's building an object that he has to predict that, too. Put it here and still give it to the agency and it's projecting, and probably it's sort of directing investors and citizens from whom to buy and get, and who's going to produce those boxes, etc. The question is whether this is another space for some kind of machination, malversion, or whatever you want, something that's already been seen in other things for the past few years. I think it belongs to one of these provisions in the second law, the Law on the Construction of Objects, primarily, not in this postal service law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11336	The word is from the People's Messenger Zeljko Ivanji.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11337	It's just, in addition to this series of amendments you've given, I have to answer this one. If it is not prescribed, let me put it this way, a standardised mailbox, the question arises, in order to be an operator and to be a public or other operator, to provide a service to the end-user. As you know, it's the same principle with telephone machines, for example, it's not the obligation for Telekom to get telephones to its users. Also, I want to remind you, phone machines must be attested, and that's the JP PTT community thing. Whether or not the appliances are attested and they're being executed, that's another question. The question of mailboxes and where they are now, it's a question of housing culture and it's a problem why they're destroyed and why in some buildings, I don't know, they're burned, and that's the problem of the home council itself and the owner of the facility. It's a reflection of the culture of dwellings that's derogated. Why is it decorrogged? Because the system of values in our society has fallen to the point where we don't care where we live, how we live, how we receive the service, or the letter, and who has led to this and the derogation of the system of values and the total destruction of the culture of dwellings in Serbia. It's the one who's ruled over the last ten years and has led this country to not see who our closest neighbor is, or where we live, or how we live, or where we put down the garbage, or where we get the service that our user provides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11338	Replica, MP Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11339	Unlike you, Serbia is our country, not our country. As for the mailboxes, I didn't say I was against the mailbox. That's nice, I said. I'm only interested in the mechanism you're about to implement. Is it enough just to write here that it is the obligation of all citizens, what will be tomorrow when these Serbian citizens do this work. Did we put in a deadline somewhere that we had to work on? It is understood that the job must be done by citizens who already have houses and apartments, not just those who have yet to build it. All postal service users, which means all citizens of Serbia, must have mailboxes in buildings, in courtyards, so where they live. What is the mechanism, how are you going to commit these people? It's not enough just to write in this bill. What are the measures you're going to take, will you go from house to house, send some inspection, prescribe some penalties? So the mechanism is important. That's why I'm saying it made more sense for this to be in the Building of Objects Act, not here, that an investor must plan this measure in the project, along with the others prescribed there. So we're talking about the mechanism, not whether we're for boxes or not. I guess that's clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11340	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11341	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Velimir Ilic told us yesterday that he had to leave the Assembly because he was going to a meeting with the IMF, but he didn't tell us that he didn't seem to have come alone, so he's busy talking to the IMF today. But the minister doesn't seem to have to attend this session, because the MPs here play portfolios of the government. It's just amazing for the MP to come out and say, after so many of your amendments, I have to answer you now. It's okay to follow the amendment, and there's a business obligation and a possibility, and it's okay for every MP to comment on the amendments, but he just has to answer us, like he's saying it on behalf of the government, it's not clear to me. As for the amendment to Article 44 submitted by MP Branislav Blazic, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, the amendment is in line with the Serbian Radicals' principle position, which is that this assembly should not and should not rule the ministries, it must not be in the power of the ministry to transfer to any agencies. A team before a party in the government said in its pre-election programme and when we started working in this new assembly, representatives of the party claimed that they would put out of force some regulation that had provided for many agencies, that they would not form new agencies, but we have new agencies in every law. Indeed, Serbian citizens should know what these agencies mean and why we think that these agencies should not exist. First, because there are competent ministries, which is part of the ministry's work, which the ministry has enough employees to do all these jobs. If these jobs go to the agency, then the question is what will the ministry do, what will these people do, because there's not only this law agency, but every law has an agency, has a commission, I don't know how you don't call them all. Then the ministry's existence becomes completely pointless. Secondly, those agencies really cost a lot. It is completely illogical to establish salaries for representatives of these agencies, which are much higher than the salaries of those who form those agencies, people are employed. Of course, we think we should hire the unemployed, we don't think we should get fired by the ones that are already working, but it can't be done this way. It's got to open up production, open factories, revive the economy, and hire people there, get jobs where they can make money. The agencies employ party activists, listeners. That's what's wrong. What was the system of filling those agencies so far? We now have a lot of experience with these agencies, and we can talk about it completely in an argument. We have agencies that exist, they're formed, and they're doing nothing. We've got some shit agencies that can't work because you couldn't agree to expose people to those agencies. We've got agencies working, so they've made paupasian out of what they're doing. So, no good experience from the existence of these agencies during this time, since 2000, since agencies have become a "model hit", nothing good, nothing concrete has been done, is just an even bigger burden on the back of those who fill the budget, and it is known that the budget is filled by Serbian citizens. That's why we in the SRS have proposed this amendment and a series of amendments, which we suggest you leave to the Ministry to do what the ministry really is. These jobs have to be done in the state and they have to be done, but no more agencies, don't create new opportunities for abuse. You know, in agencies you hire callers, people who've studied for ten years, who've barely completed colleges, and they're now famous for, my God, some experts, some experts. When you say "age," someone thinks -- God, what kind of expert is in that agency, and that's where someone who's barely finished college. Don't do that. This isn't the first time. I repeat that every time, and I will repeat it every time we talk about amendments to the laws that you propose. Whenever you disobeyed us, whenever you did not accept our amendments, you had problems applying these regulations, you had an obligation to come out very quickly with amendments and supplements, but we'll talk about it when they are famous laws on the privatisation agency. There'll be more to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11342	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11343	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I suppose, I'm almost certain that the minister is here, if he hadn't kept him at a friendly IMF lunch yesterday, I saw here when he fell in love with the IMF, I suppose he was there, he would have accepted this amendment, and all the amendments suggest you, gentlemen of the ministry, to withdraw this law from the procedure, to arrange it, to at least look like the law, and then to bring him before the MPs, to discuss it and to vote. The MP from the SRS has submitted an amendment to replace the word "age" with the word "ministration". Gentlemen of the Ministry, please don't waste any more of your time and our time and Serbia. Pull the law, put it in order, don't mutilate the mail that, at least until the law was passed, how it worked. This isn't going to work. Finally, when Mr. People's MP found it appropriate that after so many amendments, I thought that, as a European, as a cultural man, he would answer us in the mail, through an authorised and licensed operator, in a mailbox. He immediately opened up a dilemma for me. The law says "servant of postal services", so he explained he had to have a mailbox. My family is three members. The wife receives some prospectuses, I receive mostly tax solutions and the rest, the son receives love letters. Is this agency and this authorized operator going to make us put up three crates now, because we're all three postal service users? And finally, let's also buy these mailboxes, but our minister's coalition partner, Bogoljub Karic, closed that mailbox factory in Vitomirica near Peća. That's 10 years old, unless I'm wrong. However, he took it from the loan for Serbia's rebirth. He was supposed to build 75 factories, and he poured out 75 foundations, and only that factory he built, unless the minister finds someone licensed, authorized, who will open a new factory and make mailboxes. If this is how you respond to us, Mr. MP, you'd better answer us in the mail.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11344	Replica - Željko Ivanji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11345	As for pre-election promises, there will be no agency established by government regulations, the promise has been fulfilled because agencies are not set up by government regulations, but by law. So they are based on a recommendation from the World Postal Union and in accordance with European Union directives. As I said, we as founders of the World Postal Union are obliged to act on some of the recommendations of the World Postal Union and of the European Union, because we are ultimately responsible and aware of our position as founder of the World Postal Union. We are proud to say that we, as founders of the World Postal Federation, are in gold letters registered in the World Postal Federation headquarters building. It simply says "Serbia" in gold letters, as the founder of the World Post Federation. It is a great honor for this country and speaks of its policy in the last century. Why am I answering in front of the government? Of course I'm not answering in front of the government. As a man who's extremely involved in this subject and knows her very well, I can't resist it without going out and doing something that's completely irrational. If you say so, today is Monday, and today is not Monday, but Tuesday, then I've been called to go out as a rational man and say, no, you're wrong. And so I will always work on something that really does not constitute a rational objection to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11346	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11347	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if there's already talk of rationality, and it's moving away from the advent of home phones and mailboxes, I'm surprised that you're very perceptive, you've already had a lot of these ideas about kiosks, you haven't thought of creating an agency that would license and attest to mailboxes, so that all citizens, nicely every single one of their crates under the mouse, so with experts from G17 plus, they're attesting for some decent compensation, so they can see if it's good or not. When you're talking about power in the past 10 years and those who have led to something, you need to be a rational man, if you are, at least that's how you pretend to be, to know that from these past 10 years, you've already ruled the fifth. Think about who you're accusing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11348	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic, an authorised representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11349	Mr. Vice President, since it is obvious that there are insufficient numbers of MPs in the room, I ask you to establish a quorum to continue our work.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11350	Thank you. Please confirm the quorum. Insert the cards into your identification units. Since it's obvious we don't have a quorum, I'm setting a break by 14.35.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11351	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon work. According to official records, 144 MPs attend. Please at first determine the quorum. I ask Members to insert the cards into the e-system MPs' units. Thank you. I understand we have a quorum to work with. We stopped by the amendment on article 44 submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 62 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Zankov.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11352	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an amendment that I have submitted to Article 62. The bill on postal services is only one in a series of amendments to the SRS that we are trying to convince the assembly majority that these solutions, which are provided for in this bill, are not good. In particular, it's about the agency amendment. The 62nd member himself says: "The authorities and responsibilities in the area of postal services are being exercised by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Postal Services and the Republic Postage Services Agency. "I proposed this amendment to delete this section -- the Republic Post Office. It is two concepts of government or way of ruling in the Republic, one that propagating you who represent the assembly majority and government, and you are trying, given your experience with these agencies so far, to do so in practice, and the other is the principle that we in the SRS, that the country's executive authority is represented by the Government and the competent ministry. It's completely irrational, you've heard it from my predecessors, that work, hence and responsibility, is being transferred from the ministries to various agencies representing the Paraministries, the Parainstrations, as in previous laws in which various agencies have been established. I believe the majority of the Assembly will vote for this proposal, because they will employ their staff in those agencies as well. However, it will additionally burden the Republic's budget, which is not good. The only thing we're going to get in this way is an even greater red tape of power. It is interesting that the Serbian government, which proposed this law, increased salaries to government members three times a month ago, justifying it with great obligations, responsibility, etc. And parallel to that, at the same time, all these obligations, business transfers to other organs. The SRS has, on every member of this bill that mentions the agency, submitted an amendment requiring it to be replaced by the word "ministration" or deleted, depending on the member to the member, for the simple reason that as many people as possible would hear our concept that we consider to be incomparably better. I urge you to reconsider this matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11353	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Member of the 65th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11354	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not explain this amendment for the reasons that the MPs of the SRS have given a very valid explanation and detailed reason why this law should be rejected and not accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, we've been forced, for years, to comply with our legislation with European and world standards. In light of this proposal for a law, on the last page, 10, the last position, the proponent highlights a positive opinion on this law and its compliance with EU legislation and the recommendations of the World Postal Union, the representatives of the World Postal Federation also gave. On their visit to our country, they discussed the law very closely and delivered their suggestions to the working group during two meetings. The task force adopted all suggestions that were in line with our legislation and with our system and included them in the final version. As a People's MP, I have the right, and also the duty, to ask the promoter for this opinion, because I don't believe this. The proposal was required to deliver at least one opinion from one EU country, including recommendations from the Security Council, to MPs along with the proposal. It wasn't delivered to us. We have the right and the duty of voters to demand that, in addition to these proposals of a number of laws, we have a valid explanation and firm arguments based on what it proposes and on what this is based on. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the provisions of article 65 concerning this bill are concerned, what he's saying. So, what consequences will this bill have for our citizens and taxpayers? We have bureaucracy inflation. The red tape for the last four years has been multiplied that Serbia will have more officials than sheep will have. So that's gonna cost taxpayers a lot. We are witnessing the consequences and the causes caused by the VAT. I'll tell you that the coalition in power in Panchev has raised municipal services, heating, water, taxes and other things to heaven. I'll tell you that a coalition of democratic pro-European orientation has increased the cost of using building land and garages as much as 850 times. They say it's because the VAT bill was passed, you see it's not. That is why we Serbian radicals propose to the ruling coalition not to propose such laws, which will directly affect the pocket of taxpayers and the price of services and goods. Therefore, we believe that these institutions agencies that are going to be, say, independent, independent, and no one is responsible. We believe, as the SRS MPs have pointed out, that these jobs as jobs of special state interest must be carried out by a state body, which is the government, or its respective ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11355	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 66 of the amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government has accepted the amendment, the Transport and Connection Committee has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. So either the Committee declares itself or will have to vote on it, there is no reason to discuss it. On Article 66, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11356	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 66. Proposal for a postal service law. My amendment reads, "Article 66, point 1 instead of the word "the Agency" should read "the Ministry." Item 3 is deleted. So, the SRS feels that instead of the word "agency," it should say "minister" and that's what my colleagues explained in detail. The SRS advocates the abolition of agencies and opposes the formation of new agencies, as the agencies further create problems, so the SRS believes that the tasks of Article 66 should be carried out by the ministry which would be more efficient and at no extra cost. If you adopt this amendment of mine, there will be no allocation of new funds from the budget, and by draft law, I am now addressing postal operators. Gentlemen, you will have to allocate some of your revenues to fund the agency, which will negatively reflect both business and service quality. Therefore, I appeal to you, honourable Members of the People, to adopt this amendment of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11357	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 66 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 67 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11358	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I have submitted to article 67 may refer to the first 66 members, or to the first 108 members of this law. In Article 67, we come to the essence of this criticism that SRS MPs have made so far. The Agency has a legal personality, which is obtained by enrolment in the register. The Agency shall operate under public service regulations. The Agency's Authority is a Council, therefore, a directory that makes all decisions in the jurisdiction of the Agency. The Agency shall be represented and represented by the President of the Council, etc. One of the members after 67 set out the materialities of these elected gods, which will rule in the field of postal services the next day and says, the chairman of the council has received incomes of 10 average personal incomes. The average personal income in Serbia is now around 16,000 dinars, I don't know exactly, so times 10, that's 160,000 dinars, so times several members, not only will you reward those few thousand, those who put up posters in your pre-election campaign, in this way that you'll push them into this agency across Serbia, but also those who are particularly prominent in pre-election activities by rewarding them by giving them 16 average personal incomes. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the DOS government of this Greek DOS, as well as that of the previous DOS, has so impoverished this Serbia, over a million people are left without a job, without bread, without social or pension insurance, but because they are not in your parties, they will remain, and another 400,000 by the end of the year you are planning. After all, our minister's coalition partner in the election campaign said he would take off all the chains and locks to hire 500,000 people, and of these 2,000 as many as there are in Telecom Karic, and of those 2,000 he had in his businesses, he fired 50% the other day. So much for that. Don't play, gentlemen of the Ministry, withdraw this law. You will only load on the back of the Serbian people a new tax, and no improvement and no benefit from this law will come.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11359	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 68 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 69 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Penezic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has its people's ambassador Tomislav Penezic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11360	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 69. I received an answer that reads - the amendment is not accepted for reasons for which no amendment to Article 9. That doesn't seem to matter much to me. There is a big difference between Articles 9 and 69, which means that this amendment has something special in it, specifically, which I would like to talk about. Of course, the amendment says that a member is deleted and, as soon as deleted, everything is said. But I have to explain. This is about the agency's advice, and Article 9 about the agency, although it's closely connected. The agency's council is kind of the top of the agency, and there's something else to point out next to it, if not because of this room and because of most of which this will, of course, refuse, because when I wrote the amendment, I was a great optimist, and since the discussions were going on optimism, he freaked out and as the minister announced I became a total pessimist, none of it. However, the explanation is next and more relevant, thanks to the minister's presentation last night, to his speech and to this. The minister said the council would be composed of five members, it would be impartial. I really don't know if anyone here believes someone can be set up without being party-determined. So he said the minister and left. Secondly, the minister said that what it says here is not valid. He said it's not ten average personal incomes and these other ones down eight, but that it's based on some amendment, I mean Rajko Baralic. I'm sorry if I'm calling him wrong. It's said to have been reduced to three incomes. However, I did not write an amendment to Rajko Baralic's amendment, but I wrote an amendment to the bill. I'm surprised that the paper didn't quite report on this, I didn't even read anything, and they knew of much less of our sins, that we wanted to adopt the law on the National Assembly, that I too was among those 250, unfortunately I have to say that, which are marked as cattle without tails. So, agency by agency, advice for advice, ten and eight personal incomes, so you count. It's all going on the burden of workers, if there's a worker at all. What is ultimately devastating to me, the minister finally said they were elected for six years and they are irreplaceable. That's where he beats me. I fought for them not to set them up at all, and he says they're immeasurable. So please, since I have another amendment, I know you won't adopt this one, but try to understand the other one, and I'll try to explain it a little bit better, so accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11361	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Milka Silajev and Željko Ivanji submitted to Article 69 of the amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. The Transport and Connection Committee has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 70 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11362	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment refers to the existence of agencies and councils, and with a few words I would like to try to explain the economic aspect of these amendments and the commitment of the SRS to really end with an increase in public spending. When the budget was adopted, the government promised that we would reduce public spending, however, it is obvious that the laws it delivers do not work. Not only does public spending directly affect citizens' standards, but also indirectly through inflation, and today all more serious economists in this country claim, affect economic activity. The liquidity of our companies is at a very low level. As an illustration of what I'm talking about, I'm also going to say that payment traffic in banks, when it comes to companies, is falling significantly from month to month, which best says in favour of the claim that in the future we can expect an even weaker standard of citizens, a fall in purchasing power, and probably a lack of new jobs, which are necessary for this country. Generally speaking, it is high time for the government to move from word to action, to stop increasing public spending and try to try to make the citizens, i.e. the government try to make Serbia's citizens realize what it has promised, and these are new jobs, a better standard. This is not the way to go, by increasing public spending is certainly not going towards these goals. It seems to me that, as far as the agencies are concerned, we will have the opportunity to see that the surplus and the restructuring of the ministry itself, or the reorganisation of the ministry, which has been announced, in fact means that employees from the ministry, who are extra, will go to the agency, so that I think we also deceive citizens and we create only an illusion of reforms that are not really available.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11363	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic submitted to Article 71 of the amendment. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Milka Silajev and Željko Ivanji together submitted to Article 71 of the amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. The Transport and Connection Committee has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 72 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Milan Stevović. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Rodoljub Gačević submitted to Article 73 of the amendment. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Rodoljub Gačević has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11364	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 73 speaks of the work of the President of the Council. The SRS is against the formation of the agency, and therefore against its organs. We are against the formation of the agency as a parasitic organization which, as a rule, is an imaginary organization, an imaginary administration, creating itself more and more imaginary and unnecessary jobs and thus becoming more and more tense and complex, and thus more expensive. Citizens will pay through taxes, and the administration will, as a rule, always find unnecessary jobs to justify themselves, so citizens will go from counter to counter and wait in line to finish some ordinary work, and always that there is no day boss, it has to come another day to sign it, some contract and the like, and then citizens will have extra burden. The introduction of such an imaginary organization in the affairs of the ministry's jurisdiction creates a line of divergence of responsibility, which is in principle a transfer of responsibility from one body to another, and as they would say in the public, a pop student, a student of the church, and ultimately a divorce to those borders that this is a great opportunity to create corruption, bribes, which are negative phenomena in society. And of course, this kind of organization would have been appropriate, so they create and cover up criminal affairs, as Minister Vela Ilic himself said yesterday, this was a great opportunity and a great way to finance any election campaigns, which is likely to serve in the next period.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11365	I thank the People's Messenger Rodoljub Gačević. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 74 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11366	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, dear citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, have submitted an amendment to be a member of 74. The proposal for a postal service law shall be deleted. I will read it: "The funding of the Agency is carried out in accordance with the financial plan that the Council brings for each year. The financial plan shall establish the total revenue and expenditure of the Agency, including the reserve for unforeseen expenditure, as well as the elements for a comprehensive understanding of the Agency's profit and employment policy. The financial plan shall be adopted no later than 15 December of the current year for the following year. The financial plan referred to in Article 1(1) shall be subject to the consent of the Government. All accounts of the Agency’s revenue and expenditure shall be subject to an annual audit by an independent authorised auditor. The accounts shall be carried out no later than three months after the financial year ends. The independent audit officer shall be appointed by the Board of the Agency, in accordance with the law. For the first year of work of the Agency, the funds shall be provided from the budget reserve in the form of a short-term loan, in accordance with the law, and on the basis of the financial plan on which consent is given by the Government, which shall also determine the dynamics of the return of funds to the Agency's regular income budget. "The essence of our amendments, which we submitted to the National Assembly on the proposal for a postal service law, is that the ministry is responsible for this area, not for the establishment of the agency, as foreseen by the bill. As my colleagues have repeated behind this speaker, it may seem boring to you, I see that you are not listening, but the bottom line is that you will single out probably funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget that will go to harm Serbian citizens. The essence of our concept is that laws are passed that have economic justification and are in line with the Council of Europe's recommendations, but not to be at the expense of the citizens of Serbia, as you do all the time. The very fact that the minister is in charge of this area, Mr Ilic, said in yesterday's pay statement, say, the Agency's Council, and what we said that large funds will be allocated and that members of the Council will have over 150,000 dinars of salary, says a lot about this bill. We disagree with this concept of yours that you have proposed to the National Assembly. We are aware that you will pass this law by the will of the majority, but you will bring this law to the detriment of all citizens of Serbia. The essence of our exposure here is to address the citizens and tell them what is being done in this assembly by the ruling majority. You haven't heard from us for a moment, or even the amendments that provide for the law to be applied, let's say, from the eighth day of its adoption in the National Assembly, not wanting to accept them because you don't have the flexibility of the authority you're supposed to have. The assembly was formed on the basis of the votes of Serbian citizens and the essence of the bill's proposal should be to bring into the interest of Serbian citizens and to make them live better. If you continue to do this to the citizens of Serbia as well as to all of us in this country, it will not be written well. The essence of our amendment is that we had in mind not only the concept, but also the economic moment in which Serbia is today. This law has no economic justification, as well as the law that was the previous item of the agenda, the law on railways. You're increasing the number of administrative appliances, and there are over 18,000 workers in this area. What about the social programme for these workers, which you predict will be fired, etc., etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11367	Thank you, Mr. Djordjevic. Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11368	Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking to the government's representative, given that Velimir Ilic, the minister who proposed this law, is not here. Like everyone else, I found out that Professor Velimir Simonovic, our esteemed colleague, submitted the amendment when he saw that the government had proposed a law under which the chairman of the council -- as it stands in Article 75, which is next, but is related to the amendment to Mr. Djordjevic's membership, and there is a financial plan -- there are 10, and a member of the council of eight average monthly earnings in the economy of the Republic of Serbia. The economy is in a catastrophic state and this profit average is determined on the basis of economic activity and relatively real state. It's a question of how the Republic Statistical Institute does it and accounts for it. For information and for those citizens who don't know, but most people know, it's, for many, it's an unattainable figure, that average of 15,000 dinars a month. Professor Simonovic probably wanted to appeal to you in accordance with his security, but it is unfortunate that you do not want to accept any amendments to the SRS. We point out that it is absolutely unnecessary for the agency to exist and not to reduce that number, but rather that there is no advice, and especially because the work of this agency cannot be done by us, the Serbian radicals and the rest of you to control it. It does not go in the direction of reducing public spending, and what you have promised the citizens, but of increasing it, and when you know that this is why Serbian citizens are being further irritated, because in Kragujevac, 40,000 people do not have a job and hundreds of thousands of people are waiting for employment throughout Serbia, it is unacceptable that in this way, defiled, the government behaves as a drunk billionaire, to waste money on all sides and establish completely unnecessary agencies, a machine that is simply multiplying. We talked about the agencies from law to law, and only remember the Privatisation Act and the first established agency that was formed in Serbia. We've been pointing to that since April of 2001. If you look around the archives a little bit, and you see, they're saying, it's a system law, it's a necessary agency, it's and the people who are employed in it, even though we're suggesting it's a massive apparatus, it's going to control it, and now it's going to be a sphere of postal services. This could not have been justified by employees in Serbia. You see what you're facing for it. The previous DOS furniture, which is driven away by the will of the citizens of the government because of such defilement and the fact that it has accepted such a model to establish agencies and products for all and all things. She left you one of the agencies. You think you won't have a problem with postal employees across Serbia and that agency and that the council won't get complaints from people who are employed in this area. As with the Privatisation Agency, and it is buried and does not react in the largest number of cases, Mr Novakovic, who is chairman of the Privatisation Committee, knows the many abuses that took place in the privatisation process. They appear, come to the meetings of the Committee, so these will come, not respecting what the MPs say to them at all. You are the ones who are going to set them up with this law, and we have experience of these people showing up, and Director Djordjevic and other representatives from the Agency, when it comes to privatisation, do not realize either MPs or people coming from various businesses. They say we'll be in touch in seven days. It's been a few months, and we're looking for a re-trial, and I know it because of the Kragujevac PKK and the Arab "Venčac". Each of you has some examples from your own town. You will cause great problems and, above all, the anger of employees in this service. You know, it used to be a matter of prestige for someone to work at the Post Office, or Telecom. These people have had as much or as much decent pay and much better pay than the prices of living supplies and expenses, than they have since you, or the previous rent of the government, and you give the opportunity, through the establishment of agencies, to those who allegedly need to control their work, to have far more wages than those people who spend their entire lifetime in the postal service.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11369	The replica was reported by MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11370	I guess my colleague wasn't in the O.R. yesterday when I was talking about the law. I specifically said I wasn't the author of that amendment. We discussed Article 75 in the Committee and that these are large salaries, not only me, but other members of the Committee, but the amendment was submitted by colleagues Zoran Angelkovic and Dr Zarko Obradovic. The amendment was accepted, and yesterday I quoted it, although I was not its author, so MPs would know that the article in 75 did not read as predicted by the legislator. You radicals, not knowing it, keep talking about these salaries, although the amendment has been accepted and these salaries have been significantly reduced.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11371	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 75, the amendments were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Angelkovic and Zarko Obradovic. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Since this has been discussed here, allow me to read the amendment, because there was a debate all morning. The amendment says that the salary of the president of the council cannot be higher than the salary of the president of the National Assembly's working body, and the salary of members of the council cannot be higher than the salary of the MP in the National Assembly, paid in the previous month, compared to what was provided for by law - 10 average salaries for the president of the council. That would mean 150,000, and this would be thirty-something. The People's MP, Radisa Ilic, submitted the amendment to Article 75. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? National MP Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11372	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 75, which is proposed to delete that member. First of all, we criticise the government's proposal, and here we do not comment on what amendment the MPs have tabled. With Article 75 often mentioned during the debate, I will now read it in a version as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to be heard by Serbian citizens. Article 75 says, "The payment of the President of the Council is 10 and the salary of members of the Council of eight average monthly earnings in the economy of the Republic of Serbia, according to the latest published data by the republican authority responsible for statistics affairs." This amendment can be explained twice, and all in the sense that this Article 75 needs to be deleted. First of all, because the advice referred to in this article is the authority of the agency which has been said so far. So, if the agencies don't have a purpose of existence, it automatically results that the advice shouldn't exist. The Council, by itself, would receive this law of uncanny great authority, rising into a rank of authorities elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, all to oversee, represent and represent the agency, which is only a covered way to spend the national money in vain. On the other hand, in Article 75, it is almost an amazing fact: an estimated salary that is eight to ten times the average salary in the economy of the Republic of Serbia, for the president of the council and members of the council. So we have funding for something that's absolutely unnecessary. All the jobs that the agency could possibly begin to carry out could be done by the ministry, which was staffed and materially qualified for the size of the business. The fact that the second amendment to this article, as we were told yesterday and today, is a reduced amount of pay paid by the president and members of the council, does not justify anything to the government, because its original intention was as in the bill of law. That counsel, if elected in the congregation at all, will certainly be at the will of the congregation’s, or ruling majority. There is no question about any independence in performing functions. So by erasing this member, you do good to Serbia and do not waste the taxpayers' money in vain.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11373	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 75 of the amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Stanojevic. That amendment has been withdrawn. The amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic to Article 76. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? National MP Ivan Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11374	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me, if memory serves me well, that at the beginning of the term of office, MPs of the ruling majority, as well as members of the government, from this speaker, would say that the government, when proposing new legal solutions, would interrupt the practice of the previous government to form agencies for everything and everything. As time went by, here, after just a year, I can't remember a single law without the formation of an agency in it. That's the case with this postal service law. I think that my fellow MPs from the SRS Group have said enough why we are against the formation of these agencies, that at this point Serbia does not need such bodies, that they represent only duplication of the administration, that the jobs you provided for the agencies to do, quite professionally and competently, can also be carried out by the competent ministries. On top of that, there are a number of employees in the ministries, so these jobs could be very easy. However, the fact is that everything tells us that this government, like the previous one, is the same boss and that they only serve to meet the requirements that are put before them. I don't want to talk about why agencies are bad. I say, enough has been said by my fellow MPs. It only bothered me, as did my colleagues, that you foresaw such large financial compensations to the members of these agencies, i.e. the advice of the agency, such large salaries, from eight to ten average personal incomes in the economy of the Republic of Serbia. It currently stands at around 150,000 dinars. Maybe it's a little bit for someone who needs to determine the size and color of a mailbox.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11375	Thank you, Mr. Radic. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 77 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 79 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? Members of the 80th Amendment were submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Branislav Rankic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11376	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, but only on article 80, you have seen that there are many amendments in which the Serbian Radical Party requires that the word "age" be changed to "ministration" or "supervisory ministry". In Article 80(2), my amendment requires that instead of the word "agency" the word "minister." I will try to give you at least two extremely valid reasons why these amendments should be adopted and, finally, that the Ministry withdraws the law or accept amendments that lead to the fact that it is practically not forming an agency. The first is that the largest number of MPs has dropped out of sight that we already have one agency. She's called the Republic Telecommunications Agency. You will agree that telecommunications is also postal services and that agency itself is sufficient. Since here in the transitional and final provisions, it doesn't say anywhere that by applying this law, the Republic Telecommunications Agency will cease to function, and we already have, because of this large agenda and because of these frequent sessions, we are not often able to monitor all the material that is coming to us. I was able to get to what the MPs got, probably the largest number of them haven't looked at since 13 January from the cabinet session, signed by Miroljub Labus. On January 19th, he was admitted to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where required, with the "emergency" sign for the Assembly to consider a proposal to appoint a president and members of the Governing Board of the Republic of Telecommunications Agency. If we now form another agency, a republican postal service agency, in this law, we will be in a situation that, perhaps, in some subsequent law, which will be the law on amendments and additions to the existing Law on Postage Services, let's say, we will form a money transfer agency in the context of postal services, and there will be no end. That's one very important reason why you should accept this. This reminds me of the period when the former Law on Joint Labour of large systems, which worked well, split up the so-called basic organisations of joint work or OOUR. The older MPs will remember that period when one of the OOURs from Saturday had three employees. It was called OOUR "Protection", one of which was a guard, one was a director and one of the employees was a secretary, with the director also being head of the OOUR party organisation. It's a game with these systems we have. I would ask you, when you vote, to adopt amendments to the Serbian Radical Party, which are treating the agency, to avoid the formation of another agency. I would say that another valid reason is that, and if you accept this law in this text and as offered by the Government, you will not be able to form an agency. First, members of 67th and others are scheduled to form a council. See, for example, Article 69, which says in the last position: "A proposal to elect members of the Council, the Government determines on the basis of the application submitted by the Ministry, the relevant scientific institutions, as well as registered postal operator associations and/or users". From experience, just remember the National Educational Council. You know it was meant to be formed after the adoption of the Law on Fundamental and Secondary Education and Education. The National Educational Council has not yet been formed, because some institutions were not interested in proposing their members to the council. You'll have the same problem here. That's another valid reason to accept this. The problem is so much greater that if you adopt this law in an unchanged text, you will have a situation when you do not form advice, that you will practically pass the law completely in vain. He won't be able to have his own app. I would especially ask that the ministry's representative pay attention to this, so that we do not come to a situation to form another agency by law, and that in practice it will not live, which, of course, would be better from the point of view of the Serbian Radical Party, but it is not good, because it scolds the reputation of the Assembly, which works day and night, and ultimately brings laws that you are unable to implement. You don't have to prescribe at all costs the laws and translate them for those for whom they're not required. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11377	I thank Mr. Rankic. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 81 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? There's a word from MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11378	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 81, where in St. 1 and 2 instead of the word "the Agency" should stand the word "the Ministry". Article 82, for example, in paragraph 2, says, "The cost of issuing a permit is determined by the Agency's Council, with those costs not being able to exceed 200 euros in dinar equivalent." If you wanted to control the story, the advice is the advisory body. It can suggest, it can't determine. That's the point. The essence of the whole bill is that the competent ministry should be responsible for this area. As a new form, the agency rises and puts itself in line with the ministry. The Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group has expressed its position on the establishment of an agency in the area of postal services and we believe that we are diametrically different from the concept that you have proposed to the National Assembly. The reasons you stated should be taken into account the recommendations and decisions made at the Seoul Congress, etc., but the essence is the establishment of an agency at government level. We believe that this is unnecessary and that the competent ministry should do these tasks for issuing permits to operators. That is the essence of what we have been saying about this speaker today and why we feel that this bill is not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11379	I thank the People's MP, Alexander Djordjevic. Is there anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 82 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? There is a word from MP Zlatan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11380	Ladies and gentlemen, we're taking a little bit of a risk being boring. We've been talking about this agency all day, but believe it's our sincere intention and conviction that the agency is too high. On countless examples today, we have proved and shown all the arguments that are in favor of our thesis. I'm going to point out again on several basic arguments that make us think we shouldn't go to the establishment of this agency, that all these jobs can be done by the ministry and that this law should be interpreted in this way. First, Article 66 provides a description of the work the agency is carrying out, but in the end, in the last position, it is said that the first 12 points are entrusted to the business, which the agency is carrying out as a trustee. It simply concludes why the ministry trusts some jobs? If you look at what jobs these are, you will see that these are the most important and important jobs, it is the issue of permits and the adoption of general conditions etc. So the most important jobs are entrusted. The original agency’s business under this law is to give some side jobs, which are explained here at points 13) to 21. In Article 67, it also refers to the agency, says the agency can hire other domestic or foreign legal or natural persons to carry out professional activities. If the agency is an expert body, how do we plead here, then why should it hire other professionals, especially foreign faces. We know it's extremely expensive, but later it's seen from the other members of the law that the agency has, so it's not even disputed to hire legal and natural persons, because there's enough money to cover it financially. Article 74 speaks of the Agency's obligation to carry out an audit, i.e. the obligation for all accounts of revenue and expenditure to be audited, but it is said that the audit must be carried out by an independent house, an independent auditor, and in the second position it is said that the independent auditor determines the advice of the Agency. How objective is this audit if the Agency's board is hiring a house that audits the agency? You can't talk about the objectivity of such an audit. Also, he's already mentioned a 65th salary member. Just to replicate to the esteemed Mr Simonovic, we are talking here about the proposal's intention, not about what was later corrected by the amendments to the MPs, but about the proposal's intention. The promoter was aware enough to calculate how many 10 times 15,000 and knowingly went to put it into this proposal. So the proposaler's intention was not good, and it was meant to remove that deficit itself, not wait for MPs to intervene with the amendments. In the end, Article 82, which we are now talking about, we propose to delete it because the agency is mentioned again. However, there are more controversial things. If you adopt this, the question is that the cost of issuing a permit here is expressed in euros. Gentlemen, we are in Serbia, we have our currency, we have our money. Why do you express in one legal text any costs in the euro. Are you holding in your hands all finance, monetary policy, afraid of inflation or not knowing what, so you've expressed those costs of issuing permits in euros? Then, a third position is also controversial, which speaks of the annual fee for the provision of postal services, where it is mentioned that operators are obliged to allocate 0.5% of the annual income to the agency. Imagine the agency's revenue if all operators in Serbia have to transfer 0.5% of their revenues to the agency's account. Understandably, then, the agency has quite enough money to hire whoever they want, the way they want to, to do a variety of jobs at the agency. So he'll have enough money to finance all these commitments. Finally, Mr. Chairman, I am expressing my doubts about the existence of the quorum and I want it to be determined so that we can continue our work.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11381	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. Now we're going to determine the quorum. Call anyone who wants to work to get into the O.R. Since we don't have a quorum, we'll continue at 17.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11382	Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on. Please determine the quorum before continuing. I ask the Members of Parliament to insert their cards into the Parliament's electronic system units. Thank you. After MP Zlatan Jovanovic, does anyone else want to talk about the amendment to Article 82? No, I don't. ) Ambassador Leila Ruzdic - Trifunović withdrew his amendment to Article 82. Members of the 85th amendment were submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 86 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 97 of the amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Stanojevic. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that I am the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Stanojevic to Article 98. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that I am the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 99th Amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Stanojevic. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that I am the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Dragutin Peric submitted to the 100th amendment. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11383	On behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to the postal service law to Article 100 for the reason that, as it stands in Article 100, the Government has submitted a proposal to the National Assembly to elect members of the Agency's Council within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law. This amendment, which I have submitted, shall follow the amendment to Article 9. Also, the SRS parliamentary group has submitted an amendment to that member, because we believe that since there is a resolute ministry in charge of postal services, it is far too high to elect the Agency's advice, because it takes the opportunity to create a para-state body in this way, and there is no need for councils, for the reason that all tasks can be carried out by a resolute ministry that is competent to regulate this area. It would also be wrong for the ministry to entrust certain tasks to the agency, i.e. the advice, as Article 67 provides that all decisions of the Agency's competence shall be taken by the Agency. Therefore, there is no excuse for the reasons why the resolution ministry is quite able, both technically and operationally, to carry out the tasks. Then, there is one indemnity that even certain tasks from a member of the 66th agency, that is, since all decisions from the Agency's jurisdiction are being taken by advice, it sets as the source jobs to the Agency's advice. For these reasons, I have suggested that this Article 100 of the proposed law be deleted, and all in accordance with, since my amendment follows the amendment to Article 9, that all these tasks may be carried out by the current ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11384	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 101 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Simonovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Somonović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11385	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to the SRS is on Article 101. Proposal for a postal service law. The member reads: "The agency's council will be established within 45 days of the election day. The Council is obliged to elect a president and deputy president of the Council at a constitutional session, to adopt a Rules of Procedure on its work and act on the systemisation of affairs and tasks." An entire well-paid service for this agency's work. Every ministry, including the Ministry of Capital Investment in its composition, has a certain service that is fully capable, both human and technical, of responding to trusted tasks. What exactly is the goal of forming these and these agencies themselves? The goal is to reconcile and settle political coalition partners in order to meet some political peace among their political half-minded. That wouldn't be a big problem if the funds you already explain here in an explanation weren't additional, or that they shouldn't be allocated to the work of this agency, and the funds aren't so small. Four and a half million on a monthly level, somewhere over 50 million on an annual basis, so when we add that up for more agencies, that's a lot of funding so far in these formed agencies of yours. If we know that Serbia has a lot of problems, that there are so many unresolved issues, then it is logical to ask why these funds are not purposely allocated to pay off pensions to farmers, to recover some agricultural combinations, and here I would take an example of a combination, which is PKB Bolec or Grocka, which was once extremely famous in the world by its products, and now is completely scattered, because they are still headed by the Doss CEOs, etc. I must conclude that these agencies, including this agency, are a purely political move of the ruling set. The explanation that the minister gave yesterday as agencies form, not to be abused, to reduce the room for manoeuvres of various services, which, according to the minister's assessment, are subject to corruption, etc., I responsibly argue that this agency, which is politically motivated and set, will be more vulnerable to the influence of the ruling furniture and corruption, because it will have to listen to the one who chose. For these reasons, the SRS cannot and will not support such solutions, which draw additional costs from the Republic of Serbia's budget and are also subject to various machinations.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11386	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 102 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Dunjic. The government and the Transport Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 103 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srjo Komazec. The government and the Transport Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Srjo Komazec has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11387	Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to the Post Office Bill by proposing that Article 103 be deleted. Article 103. The proposal for a postal service law reads: "The financial plan for the first year of work of the Agency, the Council of the Agency will bring within 30 days of its constitution. A sublegal act, in accordance with this law, will be brought by the Council of the Agency within six months of the date of its constitution. Until the adoption of the acts referred to in Article 2, the applicable rules, i.e. general acts which are not contrary to this law, shall apply." This draft law, i.e. Article 103, provides for a way of funding and the work of the Agency, as well as a way of functioning the Agency and the adoption of acts of the Agency. The SRS believes that the agencies are overpriced and overpriced, that in practice they have not shown results, that they cannot be financed from their own sources, but are additionally burdening the budget, so for these reasons I believe that agencies are not needed and that their work should be carried out by appropriate ministries. Because if we start agencies, the question is, what do the ministries do? That is why I believe that this amendment of mine is good and comprehensive, and I believe that it should be adopted, so I hope, for these reasons, that in the day set for the vote, the MPs of the Assembly will accept this amendment of mine.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11388	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 104 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Penezic. The government and the Transport Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Tomislav Penezic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11389	A moment ago, when I finished talking about that amendment, I said you'd probably adopt this amendment. First, let me say that the Committee on Transport and Links in the previous meeting of the Assembly accepted this amendment, and then there was that "winter break", and the law passed over to this meeting, and in the meantime the new meeting of the Committee refused this amendment, it did not accept it, so I advise you, so that I do not take the time to return the previous decision, accept the amendment and that we are done with it. Since I know you won't, I need to explain to you what I'm really looking for with this amendment. On this amendment, I was given the same answer as number 69, where the amendment is said to be in accordance with the amendment to Article 9. I'm telling you this has nothing to do with it, except mentioning the advice I was talking about there, and that's exactly where I want to make a change. I'd like to ask your attention, to hear what's changing, and I think I'm going to convince you that my amendment is correct. In Article 104, postal operators, although I am not sure that these are operators, may be operators, I am not sure, who, at the time of the entry into force of this law, perform postal services, are obliged to coordinate their business and perform their work in the field of postal services with the provisions of this law within one year, the law states, from the day of election of members of the Board of the Agency. That's where I changed - from the day of the entry into force of the same. It is only changed to bring it into line within a year of the date of entry into force of this law. You know we have a bad experience with other tips, like the National Educational Council, so Radio-Difuze, etc. Who knows how long it'll take for this advice to really form. Therefore, if the law is passed, they have a year to coordinate their business. I don't think there's anything wrong with it, nor have I denied the existence of advice, as in the last member. I'm just showing you that this is more effective, one specific that means something. There's something else here that's changed. In Article 2, the licence application here changes the word "licence" in the mailing service license. You know we've rejected these licenses a long time ago, we Serbian radicals, and we use domestic words, that there's enough permission. At the end of this Article 2, the election of members of the Agency's Council is repeated again and has been repeated since the date of entry into force of this law. Think about it, I don't think I'm looking for anything impossible here, I'm not denying what you wrote about the agency and the advice. This amendment has already been accepted, so vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11390	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: – Proposal for a COMMUNICATION LAW – PRESSION You have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Marko Krstin, Zeljko Tomic and Gašo Knezevic on the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in the principle of parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate is, according to parliamentary groups, the following: Serbian Radical Party one hour 38 minutes 24 seconds, Democratic Party of Serbia one hour three minutes 36 seconds, Democratic Party – Boris Tadic 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus 37 minutes 12 seconds, Serbian Renewal Movement – New Serbia 26 minutes 24 seconds, Socialist Party of Serbia 26 minutes 24 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group for five minutes, according to Article 89. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At the same time, I am taking the opportunity to inform you that the representatives of SRS Sreto Peric, in front of DSS Jovan Palalic, are authorized in front of G17 plus Miroslav Zivkovic, in front of the SPO – NS Bogoljub Pejcic. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the representative of Proposer Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11391	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is a law before you, relatively short, with not many provisions, but extremely significant for the issue of valid and functional work of the judiciary. I am truly sorry that the law was not on the agenda of the Assembly in the previous year, because then we would get what we want from this law. In addition to the new Law on Prosecution and the Law on Executive Procedure, it is a law that should regulate so-called "the law". a peaceful solution to disputes and to get a complete overall civil-legal matter, i.e. to give a valid basis to the courts that in one valid and rapid process of protecting citizens' rights. In addition to this, we have also found the reason for the adoption of this law in our obligations that we have accepted by signing the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and a certain number of standards and recommendations of the Council of Europe which we are obliged to meet. By harmonising our legislation and in this domain, we had to pass this law. I'm saying, that way, we don't get the whole thing in the litigation process, the so-called process, but we get the compliance with the standards and recommendations of the Council of Europe. The law itself is short. It clearly defines the matter in which it will be applied and speaks about the protection of those basic principles, and above all equality, the neutrality of intermediaries. It provides a definition of what intervention is, who is the intermediary and guarantees the discretion of the proceedings, the protection of the interests of the parties in this procedure. The law is designed so that you have the possibility of mediation before the proceedings are initiated, in the course of litigation and in the course of the entire litigation process. Right now, let me say that there were not many amendments to this law, which I am particularly pleased about. Of these amendments, two were immediately accepted by the so-called mediation before the litigation of the litigation process. Given the very provisions of the law, I think it's clear enough that essentially this law gives one possibility of being extremely important to our citizens. All the data I came up with, and on my last visit to Slovenia, I found that, according to their data, the mediation yields exceptional results, from 27% to 30% of the proceedings being completed before the litigation of the litigation process. So, you're avoiding the dispute. The mediation process is fast, quite simple, and the mediator must be neutral. The decisions received tomorrow may serve as executive acts, in this sense giving an exceptional reduction of the procedure, reduction of costs and, in essence, what is best as a solution in all these cases, to the parties peacefully resolve their disputed relationship. I won't take up any more of your time. I see that it has already come to an end, so I will only ask that this law be voted upon as soon as possible, taking into account those transitional provisions and that it enters into force at the same time with the laws on litigation and enforcement, and that the courts, when they start to judge, or apply the execution, have one whole before them and a comprehensive procedure to be followed. Once again, thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-25-0.u11392	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want the word, the Committee of Justice and Administration, Jovan Palalic, president of the Committee? No, I don't. ) of the Legislative Committee, Milos Aligrudic, Chairman of the Committee? No, I don't. Thank you. I think it would be correct if, before I offer my word to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, we would stop working, because there was little time left, so we could talk about it in the morning. Resume at 10.00 hours. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 137 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 90 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from being attended by MPs Dragoljub Kojcic, Miroslav Markicevic and Velimir Stanojevic. We move to agenda item 4: – Proposal for a Law on Mediation (addition ) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups want a word? Here you go. The word is John Palalic.
