ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14920	Dear President, distinguished guests from the ministry and distinguished fellow MPs, as an authorised representative of the G17 Plus party for this item of the agenda, I would like to appeal that we return to the analysis of this law as soon as possible. I would also like to thank all MPs of all the parliamentary groups who have worked hard to prepare the amendments in order to improve this law, which is otherwise very good. On the other hand, I would like to ask all those other MPs who use this pay phone to sow the language of our mutual dissension and hatred not to do so. I want to remind you that from this pay phone we represent the people of this congregation, that the viewers who are watching us need to know that we are in the legislative business. I also want to remind you that the words spoken from this payphone not only represent a supreme responsibility to the citizens who have chosen us, but also, possibly, the motivation of the individual, the worst, representatives of the yellow press, that, using our language or language of the individual, they actually address their readers with the addition of hate. I would also like to remind you that, inspired by a language which should not be subject to the use of by the MPs, using that language, the sitting not only of the truth, the lie, but, as we have seen today, certain tabloids have given themselves the right and are openly physically threatening individual representatives of the government. I hope none of us can stand behind such writings, but I would like to remind you that certain members of this House inspire and encourage such tabloids with their performances. So they're equally responsible for all the lies and lies written in those tabloids. What I would ultimately like to say to these media is that, in addition to the G17 plus party thanks them, since the G17 Plus party is happy and satisfied with the successes that this government has achieved and the successes that the representatives of the G17 Plus party have achieved in international and our internal policy, we have fallen asleep a little bit and we have been a little laurels, triumphantly, and these ugly inscriptions have further strengthened us, consolidated us. And I want to thank all those who write us letters of support, or send us an e-mail. I have to tell you that the G17 plus party has never been stronger, thanks to exactly this kind of attack.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14921	This was per article 100. According to the Rules of Procedure, Zarko Obradovic, and on the occasion of the amendment, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14922	Thank you, Mr. President. I will not in any way abuse this pay phone, just in the context of what Mrs. Bosnjak said, and I will also help my fellow Members of Parliament and the media to find out some facts and to begin to inform in a different way about the events that marked our recent past. Yesterday, the claim was made that on October 5th, it wouldn't have been if it hadn't been for the Socialists' willingness to steal the election and it was one of the reasons, so last night I tried to look at the documentation that exists. Let me read some things to you in the next three minutes, asking MPs to read this document before they come out for this pay phone, and then to talk about October 5th and about democratic values and liquids. I quote: "The deal was (the DOS deal) – we go to the elections to animate the people to vote for us, with the idea that Milosevic would steal votes on the day of elections, but that the people would know that he had stolen it and would react sharply to it. "The decision made in the Belgrade City Assembly in May 2000. When the Socialists announced that the second round was being held – says the author – there was a huge problem in front of us how to react. The DOS decision was that the matter must be resolved before the second round of elections. The author of this text says – then I came up with a rescue idea, which is blockades. We've called for roadblocks always for ready schools, theaters, hospitals, we've worked out block tactics, we've given orders to all our municipal committees to get involved. In doing so, party members were tasked with saying that citizens were actually blocking, not members of the political party committee. We knew that this would be difficult in Belgrade and that is why we organised the gatherings, so that the people gradually began to come. We had two men each day in charge of going to the field from morning to night where a strike was expected to support him. By the way, we explained to them how SRJ President Slobodan Milosevic stole the election, and how the people only wanted to defend their votes and the country's dignity. The plan was that if we don't take him down by Sunday, we'll keep the elections from happening on Sunday, and that's by not letting our people open up on Saturday. That's when the general chaos begins. The second decision was that Thursday something must break (Thursday, October 5th). There won't be a rally, but we're breaking into TV, into the Federal Assembly, into the Federal Executive Council, blocking the airport, and November 29th, then we're negotiating with those positions. It was an idea for every column of people who came to Belgrade between 5,000 and 10,000 people to come to Belgrade, so that 50,000 electric people would come to Belgrade who would stay there at the price that no Belgrader would go to elections, on the street. They were determined even to go to the Santas. The deal was, if after a day or two, there's nothing going on, we're going to go to Dedinje, we're breaking into Milosevic's house, and we're kind of finishing up. It's decided and then split-up. The author of this text is Dr Zoran Djindjic. The interview was published from 1 November to 1 December 2000 in several "Blic News". Many people are mentioned here, and those who supported it and those who opposed it; and socialists, former socialists who participated in this, and those who did not, there are many people, and the author is most invited to talk about it. When someone takes the right to talk about October 5th, they would do well to read what those who led on October 5th and who led until October 5th said they organised October 5th. Therefore, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this assembly is working and the public of Serbia is working on October 5th so much. If anyone wants to talk about October 5th, I am at his disposal with documents of people who organised October 5th, where they say what democratic values came out of October 5th, as October 5th was organised and who finished it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14923	Thank you. Today is 12th of May 2005 and there are many witnesses to the past, let's leave it to the future. On the occasion of the amendment, MP Natasa Jovanovic appeared; MP Nikola Todorovic, and you waited an hour yesterday. Thank you, then MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14924	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is likely that the debate on the law in particular of the most time of MPs and their attention will retain on this article 49, just like the previous one, because it is about the establishment, that is, the opening of a tourism development fund. Yesterday, as well as my colleagues from the SRS, I raised a principle of disagreement with this kind of management and, and this is no hypothesis, an open suspicion that users who are professional and competent, and above all people who need to receive these funds for promoting tourism development, will not be able to, because numerous abuses have taken place so far. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in a debate in principle and detail, quoting some parts of the work of the professors' expert group from the Faculty of Economics from Kragujevac who also made one strategy to develop the entire economy of Serbia at the end of the 1990s, more precisely in the early 2000s, I presented the data and analyses that they came up with by following the stagnation and inability to develop the tourism branch of the economy for, above all, unremembered sanctions from the so-called international community. When the Dossman government was established, with promises of billions of dollars of grants and loans, and later projects and competitions that were called by one, second and so on, the ministry, many people who had devoted their entire working century to it, and above all scientists from tourism and other scientific branches, may have thought that they would finally come to an opportunity, because there is no more sanctions, some money is coming to the accounts of certain ministries, to realize something they have worked hard and hard at, as is the case with this respected professor of the University of Belgrade who has dedicated his entire working life to tourism and development of the tourism industry from the aspect of science. Mr. Dimitrijevic himself, opening a tourism fair in Belgrade on April 13th, said tourism is not his thing, as a university professor. This university colleague of his is from the heart of tourism, and he has dealt with it, as well as a group of experts gathered around him for decades. Not only did he publish many university textbooks, publications, and studies about it, but he was ready to make a selfless contribution to what we are talking about in this article, Article 49 at that late age. He sent a public protest, primarily to Minister Dimitrijevic, and then to all current officials today in Serbia, who also passed on to my smallities, or to the SRS parliamentary group, knowing that I would take over this item of the agenda as an authorised representative, on May 5th of this year. The esteemed university professor, whose scientific opus I only said a few sentences, and I could tell you for hours, called this public protest – an incorrect procedure or perhaps a misuse of the position of Minister of Trade and Tourism, Dr Bojan Dimitrijevic. I'll read you how much time it allows me (I have one more minute, but forgive me, President, if I just overstep that time, I'll try to make it quick), only part of this protest letter of one of the best tourism experts in Serbia. He says, "The creation of a tourism development strategy in Serbia, Minister Dimitrijevic has submitted to the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, where he is also a teacher, although tourism is not a big deal, although it existed, according to competitive criteria, far more favourable offers. In addition to the Faculty of Economics, three groups of joint scientific institutions from Belgrade and Nis participated, with individual prices ranging from 3m to 8m dinars. Instead of giving in to one of these bidders, the minister respected his 30 million dinar college offer. In the written criteria, the price of the project drew about 50 points from 100 possible points, and even professional references did not give priority to the selected bidder, unless it was crucial that the consortium with the Faculty of Economics and Horvat consulting d.o.o. from Zagreb. "Mr. Professor protestes and says that the competition itself has proved to be the uncle of Minister Dimitrijevic, so it would be normal to cancel out as such. No, he is not protesting that he is not on the team to do this scientific document, although he has been working on this issue for four decades, there are special books, projects and scientific works, but because of the obvious self-will of Minister Dimitrijevic, who, opening the Belgrade Tourism Fair, as I said earlier, admitted that tourism is not his scientific fah. That is why a dozen of Serbia's most famous tourism experts were to be invited and agreed with them on how to determine the concept of Serbia's tourism development strategy. It is this way that a strategy for the development of Serbia's agriculture, which is very well accepted by the general public, according to the professor. However, signed, he, beneath this public protest, sent a proposal to the ministry for the project "Elements and Methods of Development of Tourism in Serbia" with a price, imagine, of only 100,000 dinars, with the obligation to expose the results of the analysis to other experts in this area and to agree on project objectives and tasks. Of course, the answer, with Dimitrijevic's signature, was negative, with the reason that there are no financial opportunities to allow such a capital and strategically important project, i.e. to be approved. So, it was just 100,000 dinars for this, which I'm going to talk about later, since the professor only provided me with the outlines of his expertise and what he was going to do with a team of experts, I mean the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, do. Mr. Dimitrievich, this should serve you honor, to you whose life is not tourism, unlike a respected fellow professor who delivered this to me and sent you a public protest, and therefore asked me to meet the wider Serbian public, as well as all the MPs. We're just wondering how you're going to approve of using the funds you're setting up. That was the basic reason why Ms. Radeta submitted this amendment, so that you would not be allowed to have the fund, so founded, come into your hands and that you decide anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14925	The word has Minister Bojan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14926	Of course, when you say things like this, they also require a certain explanation. We have been preparing for the tourism development strategy for almost a year. Although, based on the interpretation of the Public Procurement Administration, we were not obliged to conduct the tender procedure, we conducted a complete tender procedure under all the rules imposed by the Public Procurement Act; I repeat, although we were not obliged to do so. An appropriate commission has been formed in which the price had a 20-point weight, not 50 points. Everyone who deals with serious projects what a strategy is, and should have looked at a detailed project task, knows that in such things references have the greatest meaning. In that sense, the commission found that the absolute advantage on the side of this consortium was formed and that thing was pure as a tear. It's not a matter of self-will, it's a unanimous decision by the commission, based on which I gave the order to make a deal with the appropriate institution. Everything from the project task, through the rating system, can be entrusted to any audit committee to determine the whole thing and it will be seen that in projects such as strategies are absolutely the most specific weight they have projects in which there are reference institutions. The Horvath Consalting is a world-renowned house, with the best possible references in the area. When it comes to the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, it is probably the best scientific and research institution of that kind. For your information, I've been out of employment for over five months at the Faculty of Economics, I've had a frozen internship, and even in a formal sense there's no conflict of interest. Even if I had a working relationship at the Faculty of Economics, it wouldn't be an obstacle for the Faculty of Economics to compete with their offer. I'm very in the mood for anyone who will, and if necessary by a special commission, to check the development of a strategy and those entrusted to it. I think this country will benefit greatly from this strategy. I regret that Professor Jovicic, if that's the last name, is not involved in this matter. He can be involved in the project's advice. I think the result of this story will be one good strategy, and as far as everything that's been done is done more than the law has imposed on the procedure. I can really look into everyone's eyes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14927	Replica, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14928	There is no argument for you, Mr. Minister, that the consortium from Zagreb, which you have included in the project together with the Faculty of Economics, has received this strategic important job for Serbian tourism, for the simple reason that it was Mr. Professor in this protest letter who wrote that this job is also quality, with references that go back 40 years, and I have only listed some of them, that they could do at a much more favourable price; it is a project of tourism development strategy. And if it didn't exist at all and it wasn't on your side of goodwill, was it because of the professor's vanity... The fact that you haven't worked in college for five months now, it can't impress me at all and be a counterargument because you responded to the letter for this design for the expertise of using incentive funds in the tourism field on July 28th 2004. He later followed this competition, when he mentioned the Faculty of Economics, along with the "Horvat Consalting" from Zagreb, to get at least five times the price of this project. This really means that you cannot and do not want to objectively view rational use and spending resources for this purpose. That is why, at the very least, it creates a suspicion that funds from the fund will be used in the future. The fact is that you didn't have a good will to make such studies single out 100,000 dinars, and if I were to start looking at expenditure items in the budget of the Ministry of Trade and Tourism, how much money you spend on travel expenses or on some specialized contracts, it was really unacceptable to give this kind of response to one of the best experts in this area, that you're not prepared to support with just 100 thousand dinars its development of a strategically important project and document.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14929	The word has an MP, Nikola Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14930	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in yesterday's debate on this amendment, I learned from Mr. Angelkovic that in Belgrade the most visited 25 May, the House of Flowers, objects destroyed in NATO aggression. I understand the message, Mr. Angelkovic, I don't mean to point out something that would be the reason for your replica, but I would add that I would like to see on these facilities a board, to see that it was the execution of Serb people's executions from a distance of 10,000 metres from the air, from the sea, beneath the water surface, without any risk of their technology and military force, and that they caused enormous damage to the Serbian people, that their grandchildren and great-grandsons when they came to visit Serbia and Belgrade to see what their grandfathers did to them, to remember. These tables should be written all the way up until these aggressors who have brought down the Aval Tower and all buildings in Belgrade are built with their own means and later remain tablets with another text, that those who have destroyed them by their own means, with the same goal: not to forget it. I don't know how much money it takes for the tourism economy of Serbia to show this tourist offer to the world, to be visited more, and not to get it wrong that someone might have wished that the facilities were even more torn down, that the offer would be richer. Just as an introduction to the story of how complex this problem of tourist offer, i.e. these business branches is complex and dependent on other branches of the economy I will say a few sentences to keep your attention on a few things. The first is corridor 10, highway, a very significant investment, and it is good that Serbia has it. But I'm afraid building that road will make it faster to the Greek and Turkish borders, easier to pass through Serbia, and that it will benefit little from the tourist offer in the central parts of Serbia or what separates itself from that main corridor, for the reason that regional, municipal roads are not being maintained. Here, as a bill promoter, the government is signed, and how many governments and other ministers in the government have the opportunity to look at the text of the bill, how much to see their part of the job to create conditions to develop a tourism economy, if, for example, they don't maintain roads other than these main highways. How to get to Homolje? How to make a rich offer of Homolime Mountains, Timočka krajina, starts from the source Mlava, the monastery Gornjak, Rajkova cave in Majdanpek, the location Lepenski Vir in Donji Milanovac, rich offers of the National Park "Djerdap", beautiful Mt. Miroc, where the road to this extent is destroyed and you will not believe who destroyed it. It was destroyed by drivers of heavy trucks carrying the forest, a heating tree outside the National Park and the Public Enterprise "Serbishum", and no dinar was spent to repair these roads in order to reach these beautiful tourist resorts. Beautiful Miroch and very nice and welcoming hosts are eager to have someone come visit them, have someone to eat and drink with. The famous cafe "Miročanac", very good and rich in specialties for all tourist passengers, but no one comes there anymore, or if they cheat once to come, destroy their own vehicle and then they don't think they're going to dare on such a long journey. I don't know if government gentlemen have time, work doesn't lead them on that path, but in their spare time to spend their money on tourist purposes and to take a little trip, to see how beautiful places are in Serbia. Not to forget the Negotino landscape, the Bukovo monastery and the Vratna, an extremely beautiful place, but a few miles should be arranged, repairing to get to those places. I mentioned a national park, not just for that reason. The state narrows down the space of several thousand square kilometers, declares it public enterprises, calls for conditions, whether these are rare animal species, plant species, historical, cultural or not, to employ a certain number of people who manage the company and work, and then turns out to be just a small number of people or perhaps someone from a political party that is in power, perhaps not even in power now, has personal benefits. People in that area, who have been in that space for centuries and before that space has been restricted and declared a national park, national good, can't build anything without special permits. And it's very hard work. They can't untie the dog in the yard, because he goes into the woods, and then the forester kills him, because he scares the savage. (President: Mr. Todorovic, time. ) The host is forced to tie the dog, and then the wolf enters the yard and eats the dog on the chain. You won't believe it. The specialty is that the wolf eats a dog, and it's on a chain in the yard. It is a struggle for a naked life – to defend against animals in a national park, where there is a rich hunting ground. (President: Mr. Todorovic, time. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary to come to the area. I suggest he picks when it rains, because he won't see the holes and he'll get there faster, picks his own vehicle, because then he's sorry when he comes in a couple of times, not the state, because he'll do a lot of damage. Just another problem to mention. Let's say, how do the ministries of industry, energy, tourism, mining, agriculture, etc. co-operate, if the Minister of Energy excludes the Minister of Mining from power in his own company, in a public enterprise where the state is the owner, so there is no production in a large giant that was the largest mine in Europe. It will now be the largest mining museum in Europe, if something is not done, and yet it will not be able to visit if the road is not done. I'm sorry I overstepped my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14931	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14932	Members 48, 49 and 50 make up one continent, and this is called the Tourism Development Fund. There's probably a little confusion about what a tourism development fund is. The answer to that question is Article 48. It is clearly stated that it is a budget fund, a former sub-account, one budget fund, one item inserted into this law on the basis of the space that exists in the Budgetary System Act. The idea is to determine one account where funds would be concentrated for specific purposes for specific purposes. According to the logic of the matter, this should be an account for the inflow of funds intended to develop tourism. The Serbian Radical Party has submitted amendments to those members and is seeking their erasure. Why, that's the central question. Why is the erasure of these provisions treated by the tourism development fund? Why are you asking to delete the budget fund? It's not about erasing development, it's not about erasing the perspective, it's about this kind of fund-raising and distribution. What does Article 49 regulate? Article 49 regulates, practically, the resources of that budget fund. It's not in accordance with the Budgetary System Act and it has to be said. Furthermore, what is the development of our tourism, whether you are going back 20, 30 or 50 years? At all levels, starting from local self-government, through the former inter-municipal regional communities, today the district, which do not have any divine jurisdiction, through the province, to the Republic, through numerous associations, tourist organisations, tourist associations, some planning and guidance, and it is always a dead letter on paper, for the simple reason that, to understand, tourism is the best export. In order for tourism to function well as best exports, we probably have more than 60% depending on the infrastructure, whether it's a road, electricity, water, sewerage. It depends on the accommodation capacity, depending on what is offered in the area of the tourist facility intended for guest accommodation. Serbia has something to offer, but it is necessary to concentrate efforts and overcome, above all, the problems of infrastructure. Infrastructure problems cannot solve the tourism development fund. Infrastructure problems solve all levels of government. Both the government and the ministry should be the one, if I may say, top of the pyramid that needs to focus all these activities, so that an autonomous development of infrastructure does not occur that would not monitor the construction of guest accommodation facilities or something else, depending on what a tourist offer is. That's why today we have a situation where something that is natural beauty with small investments can also be a visible natural beauty. In the vicinity of Nis this is Cerjana cave, in the vicinity of Požega it is one cave two or three kilometers from the road Požega – Užice. It needs to draw a little power, some infrastructure, above all, that infrastructure that's in the function of protecting the environment, to open it, to determine who's going to own that space and make it available to all citizens. Believe, there will be work for those who are in the city, and there will be pleasure for those who come to see. Does anyone think today that this cave will open a development fund, a budget fund? They won't, because the budget fund... I'm deliberately avoiding talking about a 50th member who's talking about spending money, although it's one whole. This law contains a lot of autonomous things, and there's not one whole.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14933	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Penezic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14934	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although there are now more Serbian radicals here than others, my first message was sent to this very second part, to clarify something I promised here yesterday. I said that those who feel trouble come to the spa, so if it helps them help the spa, and if it doesn't help, I promised that we would pay for it, or local self-government and me. The only thing I forgot to say in the end -- be quite honest, like Serbian radicals, and then I'll trust you all. As for these Articles 48th and 49th, we put them together, of course, I would ask for a little more attention to that part of Serbia that I was talking about yesterday. I'll use a style figure called synesthesia, if you've heard it; I'll explain: if you look well at that great water that comes out of the spa and flows through Jaz (it's a stream, as anyone calls it), you'll hear the noises of the Euros, they'll go off in the grant to Lima to Drina. Synesthesia, for those who don't know, is a sense of one sense of the trait of another's sense of hearing or view, with the feature of hearing, as he used it, I didn't explain it well, as Jovan Ducic said – I'm watching tonight as the stars rustled. There, that's it. Okay, I've explained. Now let me tell you one more thing: this fund can't be trusted. You don't even get a dinar at a bar, and you won't get a dinar, and especially when I see this item under 3) – donations, loans, loans from the country and abroad. What do you think you're going to get most of your donations? Leave it to the local self-government to at least do what you can, and you can do enough. Another explanation, yesterday I may have made an anti-reclam when I said the roofs of the pool were in pretty bad shape. Not now, feel free to come, it was when there was no interest in the construction of the spa, so the roof was hollow, so the snakes crawled in. Now it's all in order. It's a small capacity of four pools, and it's a big interest. There's no infrastructure. And let me tell you, I agree with this: 80% go to local self-government, and 20% go to the Republic or anywhere. So far, imagine, and they've taken that away from us, the medical center of Užica is the owner of the spas in the coastal and the dinar is not coming back. He's not here to confirm that. But it would be good if they wanted to go on like that, if they couldn't get it straight, they'd give us one cabler on Zlatibor and we'd run it. Imagine now, Prickett owns the Zlatibor, Zlatibor owns the Priboj spa. That's illogical. So, get back to local self-government, so let's form a public business for tourism and the spa will flourish. We don't need any special help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14935	I thank you, Mr. Penezie. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 50 and 50 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antić. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14936	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am in a position to fully agree with my colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party that the Tourism Development Fund will certainly not solve the problem of tourism and everything that has been abandoned in this country over the past 10-20 years. The fact is that the funds this fund can raise above all can be used for the future tourism development strategy, possibly for some development plans. Infrastructure is also too derelict, the facilities themselves are in poor shape and much more financial resources are needed if we really want to develop tourism in our country. Let's be honest, let's be realistic, for the development of tourism not only do we need foreign guests, but we need foreign investment. It would be much better if the ministry were more engaged in the privatisation process of certain tourism enterprises, where you could enter into a country of certain capital through strategic partners from abroad that would revitalise these facilities. It should also enable the inflow of foreign tourists, as this is the only way for tourism in our country to prosper. Domestic consumers, domestic tourists are quite impoverished by this economic policy and will not be able to count on them in any case. As far as the tourism development fund itself is concerned, we can possibly use it for the salaries of officials in the Ministry itself. He will not, as I said, contribute to the rapid development of tourism. I think in article 50 it's quite unsaid, it's too wide-ranging. Under point 4 I found participation in the financing of construction, reconstruction and equipment of accommodation facilities and accompanying facilities in tourism. I think this is even unrealistic at this point. We haven't finished the privatisation process yet. A small number of tourism businesses have been privatised and what is privatised has been done in a bad way. I don't think you have any intention of investing in social enterprises, because you've had hundreds of companies that, with minimal investment, could have left the auction functionally and you haven't managed to privatise a good part of them so far. If you count on investing in accommodation facilities in private tourism companies, you will have to wait quite a bit, because as privatisation is progressing so far, it will take at least three or four years to privatise tourism enterprises and to identify among them those companies that could possibly be the backbone of development. In this way, this fund, which is designed in fact, becomes one discretionary right of the Ministry, the right to have the money of taxpayers. The possibility remains for the development of corruption and abuse in the Ministry and Government itself. In any case, it does not solve the problem of tourism, which is much deeper and for which much more resources are needed than this fund can provide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14937	I thank you, Mr Antic. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14938	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's continue the discussion yesterday, that is, the discussion of the members of 48th and 49th, because the article of the 50th lays down and explains in some way why Serbian radicals are against all these three members. Article 50 regulates how funds from the fund will be used, which will be formed by Article 48, or Article 49, and says – financing the development of a tourism development strategy, integrated tourism development programmes and complementary activities of tourist regions, development programmes for specific tourism, as well as tourism promotion strategies. If, God forbid, they do not adopt the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party MPs, so the 50th member remains as he is, then we expect this Horvat consulting DOO - Zagreb to have a good share of the funds gone from the fund. Because, we already see, Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, the MP of the Serbian Radical Party, explained in her discussion a little while that top experts from Serbia are not engaged, they are even deleted, but are hired by experts from the brotherly, some of the brotherly, Croatians. However, experts in the Serbian government, experts from a well-known expert coded group, e.g. Dinkic and Labus, because, as far as tourism is concerned, they went from Sweden to the Virgin Islands, through Moscow, or Euroaxis Bank, etc. So they know world tourism. Virgin Islands are islands where four billion Serbian couples from Cyprus ended. So, they will spend that part of the funds, and I guess the second part of this ′′Horvat consulting DOO′′ from Zagreb. Under point 2) is said to finance the development of protection plans and sustainable use of tourist spaces. Once again, experts will have to engage and, therefore, part of their engagement will be financed from this fund. Thirdly, he says – participation in financing the construction of tourism infrastructure. Now, here we're going to get into a situation where Chume, who built our roads, is now building roads and tourist destinations, which have been explored lately, or this Miskovic, and I don't see the difference between Cumet and Miskovic. The only difference is that Chume does not have as much money now as Miskovic has, and Miskovic is at large, and Chume is not. Next is – participation in financing the construction, reconstruction and equipment of accommodation facilities and accompanying facilities in tourism. Here I expect that Ilic, a fraud who bought Traveler, fired the workers, destroyed the best tour operator Serbia has ever had, has reported for a portion of the funds, because he needs to renovate the hotels he has bought and receive at least as much funds as he has paid for the purchase of Traveler. Or, I expect that the former minister, Mrs. Raseta-Vukosavljevic, or her father-in-law, excuse me, did not take a loan from agriculture but her father-in-law, completed the construction of a tourist facility, the institution that is being built in Baja's garden, by buying red lanterns and other accompanying equipment that is for that institution. Besides, that would be the night tourism some of these people are up for. Participation in the financing of professional staff training in professional, scientific and tourism organisations – there will be experts here again, those who have visited the world on the cost of the state, from Sweden to the Virgin Islands, because they will be able to pass on their tourist experiences to tourist workers who will receive our groups to visit the next day. Next – participation in funding activities of national tourism organisations, territorial and local tourism organisations. Here we come again to that story I told yesterday in the discussion. No, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, local and regional self-government, financial support. Let people have foreign capital, which is very interested, talk about a case from Zemun, to come into our local environment... (President: Mr. Markovicu, can you take care of the weather while we travel to tourist destinations? I'll use the other ten minutes, actually, here I go,... to come and finance the construction of tourist facilities. I'm sorry, I'm not gonna answer again under this amendment, so I'm gonna use these two more minutes. The 7th is a participation in funding priority investment programmes and development projects from the Fund's programmes. Who will decide what the priorities are and how many commissions will be to decide that something is priority, and the other is not? Then – other activities in the field of tourism, in accordance with this law. And finally -- the government of the Republic of Serbia closer determines how funds are used. This last position in this article will allow people who have not been corrupt so far – and I mean the minister, so far he has not been corrupt, at least we do not know about any affair with him – to be tempted and therefore, Minister, because of you, I suggest that you adopt this amendment and delete this article.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14939	Thank you, Mr. Markovic, for taking care of the minister. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14940	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, indeed this member - the use of funds from the fund, to which the amendment was submitted by counterpart Zoran Antic, all the way to the last position, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will be closer to regulating the way the funds were used, which, in fact, is the most controversial in the whole situation, defined what are the problems of tourism and what is necessary to do in the concept and strategy of tourism development in general. However, as all the problems are accumulated in our country, so is the problem of restructuring, i.e. privatisation, which is not completed, and especially when it comes to a large number of hotel complexes and hotels in Belgrade and in other cities, one of the major but not unsurpassed problems. They should be paid attention not only to your ministry, but also to the application of the Privatisation Act and this quasizacon on the recording of seized property, because of the very fact and what you know that former owners want to claim some of the main hotel facilities in the capital of Belgrade. Since the privatisation process for some catering companies is at least controversial, especially fellow Antić and other members of the Privatisation Committee of the SRS have said, including those of this, such as the ruling set, that we have a bad experience, both hours and hours, and days and days spent in discussing the privatisation irregularities, and especially when it comes to "The Traveler" and many other smaller catering complexes, and what former workers and those who only partially participated in the privatisation process had as a problem. I have said a lot about the attractiveness, with hospitality, which is undoubtedly present in both our Serbs and all other national minorities, who are loyal citizens of Serbia and who live and work here, especially in the national mixed environments, it is actually one of the biggest assets that we have as a state and as a people. The attractiveness of tourist destinations is something we can admire and pride all over the world. If you look at this monograph that JUTA has done, with a review of the development of tourism in our country from 50 years ago, how this development has been moving, and through these fantastic images that are included and shown, how beautiful all these places are when you start across Serbia and Montenegro, you see in fact that we do not lack this attractiveness, but that some regions, like the coastal region and the Pribojska Banja, which Mr Penezic was talking about today, are extremely abandoned. On the other hand, something happened, and it was probably a reflection of such a plan policy that was led at the time of communism, that some places, I don't want to name them, but you probably assume, which is only within a framework, that is, next to a city that can't be called an air or a spa in the right sense of words, there's an RH Bureau, it's called a Banj place, which is actually some rehabilitation or recreation center. In the system of great and advanced technology, the modern market, we need to look back when we talk about this topic of the agenda, Mr Dimitrievich, and what is also part of your portfolio. You know, in order to satisfy a quality tourist offer, that it is necessary that everything that one hoteler and service provider should offer as an attractive product on the market must also include, from the smallest bit to the most large thing, as a complete product. We as a state have a problem, and therefore our very difficult hotelers, who now, especially those in Belgrade, are having a problem because of their overbooking, because Belgrade is now open to various potential investors, and for those who would like to invest in our economy, but do not find the best language or are burned because of corruption from the previous DOS furniture and these now. So, tourism is closely tied to trade and the fact, even though every normal citizen welcomed the action let's buy the domestic, that's not exactly so and that it's hypocritical of you to carry out one such action, and at the same time you're in the government that we can't observe that the external trade deficit for the past year is seven billion dollars. So it's impossible for only one campaign, conducted by your ministry and what needs to be welcomed, to encourage domestic production. But what production, when the conditor industry is destroyed, when agricultural production really is unable to compete with this import lobby. We are now coming into the situation that tourism is also closely related to the problem that the Ministry of Trade has, and the Government itself, and all business branches, because of the huge external trade deficit, which is even twice as large as during that government, DOS and Zivkovic, which we blew up in the elections in late December 2003. It is not enough to just write, as this Article 50 says, what it takes to improve tourism in our country, because you can already see for yourself, as all MPs do, that this is closely related to a number of other problems, from privatisation through trade, through exchange rate, which in real, real life and the financial market is not like this, but continues to be held artificially. Thus, anyone who is in the context of original activity is demoralized to export or have a barrier by the state, unable to participate as some cooperative factor in the tourist area in our country. These are all the big problems that happen in front of you and our eyes, which obviously this government is not ready to solve, because every minister has its own resources, as you have these two joints, formerly separated ministries, trade and tourism, and you are now doing what you think you should, with available personnel. There are also how professional people, who are from this profession, such as your tourism associates who are present here today, but these are all major problems of national nature, which not this government, but some future ones will be able to solve in a proper and efficient way.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14941	The word has Minister Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14942	It's important again for some information. I also have here a report on how some 77 million dinars were spent last year. There were 540 entities that applied last year, some with at least two contracts. So there were over 1,000 demands per amount of over three billion dinars. Of which, 132 contracts were concluded with 124 users, with an average value of 600 and a few thousand dinars. I guess if someone wanted to abuse, he'd collect five or ten projects and make ten contracts, and he wouldn't give 100 and some contracts with an average value of 600 and a few thousand dollars. Both this and last year's public call lasted from January 15th to March 31st, so nearly three months are all those who wanted opportunities to report to the competition. Over 60% of those humble 70s and some million are inland. It's represented, I've even counted 55 places, plus Belgrade and Novi Sad, all tourist regions are represented, and of course we also exercise ex post control over the purpose of these funds. In addition to Belgrade and Novi Sad, the money is given to Valjevo, Beocino, Raškoj, Vrsac, Gambigradska Banja, Sremska Mitrovica, Donji Milanovac, Mionici, Velika Gradište, Ribarska Banja, Vrnjačka Banja, Sokobanja and so on, and the Republic centres in Serbia and various tourist institutions etc. Within some general purpose of the funds, of 132 contracts, four were given for the general part for tourism subsidies, eight for urban development of tourist resorts, nine for promotional activities, seven for the protection of natural and cultural resources, 44 for the construction of tourism infrastructure, 60 for the modernisation and promotion of tourist offer. So it was really quite a consideration of the precise purpose of the funds, and that's less of a case this year. I say again, we have no problem in dealing with the purpose and spending of the funds. Since the Horvat Institute has been mentioned here several times, the following thing should be said. It's about a multinational consulting group that was founded, if I'm not mistaken, in 1909. It is one of the world's leading consulting houses, has been working on tourism development strategies for many countries and countries in the environment and has its offices in more than 70, if not in more than 100 countries in the world. I'd like anyone to object to that in terms of expertise. The fact that they currently have an office in Zagreb, and do not have it in Belgrade, is not an obstacle to doing part of this job. If God gives, there will be an office in Belgrade, and it can be a plus for our country. The fact that this institute has such a name and that its headquarters is currently in Zagreb, I personally don't mind, and I hope neither do you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14943	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14944	At the beginning of the understanding, the SRS is against the idea of establishing a budget fund and all we're talking about is that. You're in article 50. The draft law established a way to use the budget fund's resources. To translate that into a common language, which is what money is used for. You had the opportunity to hear from one of my predecessors earlier, we believe that these state resources, and these state funds are state resources as soon as they are collected, as soon as they are recorded in the budget, cannot be used to participate in the financing of construction, reconstruction and equipment of accommodation facilities and accompanying facilities in tourism. Accommodation facilities may not be in private property yet, but they are mostly private property; I'm not talking about the number of objects, but in total, any criterion if you take, the number of beds, the number of objects, the level of services, the dispersion of these services, the destinations. If the state intervened with its funds in a private apartment, it would likely make it a co-owner for the amount of its investment. What's much more dangerous is that there's a concentration of resources in one place, it's being controlled by a group of people, and then there's really going to be arbitraryness. It is possible that the electricity industry in Zajecar is developing its own network towards a destination, without being accompanied by a budget fund, because it is reportedly not there in the development strategy, and the strategy is inflexible, and it will likely be the leader of the ministry and any other state bodies that are monitoring tourism in any way. That's one problem. So, there is this arbitraryness, inconsistency, because here you are, I see, predicting that you are participating in the financing of advertising of tourist organisations and associations, where you need to be able to hear, to get the right information about what Serbia is offering, what destinations and what type of services, in which place. All of this can be regulated another way. To make that clear, you see, sometimes when the Bather was developed... Or perhaps the second example is to compare Tara – and today on Tara you have mostly objects made by the military. There are hotels "Omorika", "Beli Bor", "Javor", and later there are Belgrade children's resorts in Mitrovica, and that is the whole tourist offer. So, behind it were strong state institutions, they noticed that it was one of the exceptional beauty of this mountain; the road was developed from the Kremna, now something was arranged from Baja's Garden up, and later the construction of a lake, or dam; everyone else followed it with infrastructure and made it possible for something to appear which is a tourist offer, but this is not the fund. That's the problem. How was the bathroom? The army also had some facilities, and later the climbers built their two or three facilities, so the Geneks went, thought he could do a good job; since the Genex was in charge of moving on, then the infrastructure, the roads on one side, the current, and so there was development. There were funds, there were ideas, there were so-called job carriers and something was done. Times have changed. Today, the state needs to intervene, primarily in the area of infrastructure, and our businessmen are capable enough to work very nicely each destination and, of course, participate in financing the construction of infrastructure for a particular location. By forming such a budget fund, especially given this concept of government and this division of government within the government, where the party grabs the ministry and the other has no contact with that ministry, this can only become self-will and into the situation that we have an institution, but there are no effects that we have that institution. At least we in the National Assembly are aware of that, after a number of agencies and other para-state associations, that something was done, the law was passed, but the effects of that law almost do not exist. It will be similar, or entirely identical, with this budget fund for tourism development, because there will be no soul in this fund, there will be no consideration of real needs and real opportunities for our development. It's a shame we've always been so easy to go through tourism. I repeat that sentence - it is still the best export.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14945	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14946	Comrade Vice President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, so why should we have mercy on you, and you don't lead us, every time we make a little... And DS comrades also, of course, did. A member of the 50th Tourism Act is important because it defines the fund and for which needs the funds can be used. Two things I mean here, it's not strictly about the amendment, I apologize for that. Mr. Minister, you yourself said, therefore, when the allocation of these funds we are talking about is complete, it would be correct for one session of the Trade and Tourism Committee to be dedicated only to the fact that both MPs and all others are in a position to inform in which way these funds are allocated. I pray that if this is possible, take care, with these small funds, of some regional balance and of equal terms, that no one in one region gets any money, and that in some other these funds get people in some significant amount. The only problem with this money is that it doesn't have another zero or two, because the funds are objectively small, and that's very important. Secondly, I also want to say that I would like to ask that a maximum cost control of these funds be taken into account, because these funds can be placed out of the best intentions, and we would like a year after the allocation of the funds to have a report, if possible to do so, to see if those who have received these funds have been used for the infrastructure, for all that is stated here. Of course, in the end I ask you not to forget this area where I come from, because it is an important end in Serbia. So, it's Moravia County and Shumadi, there's Golia there, it's near Zlatibor, there's Mine and the Takani area; there's also Arangelovac and Topola nearby. There are really extraordinary assumptions for tourism development and there are several mineral spas, not real spas, but mineral water sites. So, don't let all the money go to Belgrade and we don't have a report on it. I think it's important that this fund exists and that we can evenly distribute it, and that MPs get a report when all this is over. Don't let them accuse you of sharing funds through SCI infrastructure, it exists as one of the hypotheses. So I'm totally convinced that that's not how it's going to be, and that's why at the bottom of the field, as they say, I'm talking about it, and I think it's going to be in the best order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14947	Mr. Baralic, I'd like you to bring Mr. Krasic's glasses, after he's forgotten, be collegiate, I thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milan Veselinović. Mr. Krasic, these are your glasses. You'll need them.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14948	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, like my colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party, have said that this legislative project does not solve key problems in this branch that are very important for our economy, I mean tourism and for our country, and I say that this law will only complicate things and bring new burdens to Serbia's budget. In the field, the situation is quite different and those who write these legal projects as if they don't know what's going on on the ground, as if they're out there; these resolute ministers can't get down among Serbian citizens to see what's there, in fact, the problem, what's key and what needs to be solved. The writer of this law had to visit our tourist facilities, Banjska springs, our mountains, our medieval monasteries and churches before, thus obtaining the right picture and image of the situation. You know very well that the last two decades, and perhaps more, our tourism is quite a waste. Our tourist facilities are in such a state that they are simply no longer for use. I come from Novi Pazar, our area is famous for its beautiful and ecologically clean mountains, the Banja springs, the springs of natural drinking water, but unfortunately it is abandoned and it needs to be reached by these facilities and springs. This law, as it is made, is in collegiate with the Law on Local Self-Government, if we know that according to the Law on Local Self-Government, land is under the authority of local self-government, and we see in Article 46 that out of the funds that are collected 80 percent belongs to local self-government. The establishment of funds, agencies and various para-state bodies creates new commitments on Serbia's budget. In the past decades and during the communists, we've had funds and SIZs and we know well how we went, what kind of organizations they were, that it was simply a true bureaucratic headquarters, the establishment of the then government. The foundation of this fund will create the establishment of the current government, simply create a new bureaucratic apparatus, and from all of this Serbian citizens and Serbia's tourism will have nothing at all. If we see that there is a Tourist Organisation of Serbia and we see that the ministry forms a Tourist Organisation of Serbia and the Governing Board itself, I don't know how this fund will be financed and with what money. If we pay particular attention to the regionalisation of tourism in Serbia and the award of concessions by regions, this means that there will be a sale of our tourist facilities by regions. What if a new buyer comes in, is he gonna be a stranger or some of our newly-roasted businessman, what's he gonna do? It will simply sell out what can still be sold out, perhaps use some of its products and neglect our agricultural and food products. It's a picture of today and our country in transition. I believe that this legislative project does not solve problems and I think Mr Antic's amendment is in place, because it would improve this law, and by abolishing the fund, we would avoid a new imposition on the budget of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14949	The word is from Ambassador Miljko Četrovic. The session of the Transport and Connection Committee will be held at 1400 hours in the fifth floor hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14950	Dear People's MPs, an amendment to Article 50, submitted by the Serbian Radical Party's MP, is entirely justified. Given the experience we had, related to the work of the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia and the illegal spending of these funds in the previous period, the question of the legality of the spending of these funds is also being raised in the term of office of this government. As a member of the Committee on Finance on several occasions, I sought a report on the work of the Development Fund and Finance Minister Dinkic told me on several occasions at the Committee session that he would like to see the report too. We know how things were going with Minister Rushet and finally, after a few months, as a member of the Committee, I received an overview of the approval and use of these funds. Since I come from the King, and I know in some way the territory of the entire district of Raška, I have seen by what principle these funds are defined and shared. The same thing the DOS has been doing for the sake of this government; in fact, these funds are in the largest number of cases being allocated to businesses closely linked to the parties in power and forming the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to ask a few questions to the Minister of Trade and Tourism, as the topic is now the tourism law – is there any problem that workers who have worked in the area of tourism, and here is the mention of Traveler and Privatisation of Travellers. Does he know the problems of AD ′′Serbia - Kraljevo? The company, which had over 250 employees, with a hotel in the city's most popular center "Tourist", with another hotel "Paris", with five-six restaurants in the city's largest centre, was sold at the auction of Karic's industrialist who bought "Rocket" from Užica, who after an auction and signed contract closed the hotel and almost all restaurants in the city, and the workers were allegedly sent on forced vacation. More than a year has passed, workers are not returning to work, nor are they receiving earnings, and the process, or the fulfilment of the conditions of the industrialist under the contract signed, has not been followed by the Privatisation Agency. Only now, after so long, has there been a finding that the majority owner has failed to meet the terms of the contract. When asked why he did so and whether he was aware that among the facilities he bought for a bagatel price were objects that were nationalized in 1946, he responded directly to the Royal Television that it was a problem of local authorities, a problem of the state, and if there was a denationalisation, a state would return to former owners, or their successors. Did the minister go to Matarushka Banja (as far as I saw it, yesterday he was in Vranjska Banja) to see what condition Matarushka Banja is in? One of the major spas in the past time was also brought to ruin and mockery, not to mention the capacities that gave significant income to the municipality and the state, from which several hundred or over 1,000 workers lived. It can't be this partial and with some fund again, through this kind of privatisation, and with Articles 47, 48, 49 and 50, those who have kidnapped hotels, restaurants and others, and allow them to drag their hands through this fund to give them more funds. They're always few because their eyes are hungry and their souls are not.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14951	The People's Messenger Ivan Radic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14952	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an amendment submitted to the 50th by MP Zoran Antic from the SRS parliamentary group is fully followed by the previous two amendments, to the member of 48 Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic and to the member of 49 Mrs Verica Radeta. I think the SRS MPs in defence of these three amendments have fully proven the senselessness of this way of financing tourism in the Republic of Serbia through the tourism development fund. The Tourism Development Fund, or funds in general, is an outdated way of funding. It's something that's been taken over from the communist era. We all know that funds were used mainly to fill budget gaps and sometimes to fill the pockets of state officials. Serbian radicals also see it as a priority that a far more meaningful way of financing and assisting tourism in the Republic of Serbia would be through stimulating foreign investment, i.e. through foreign investment, investing fresh foreign money in the tourism potentials of the Republic of Serbia, which should be encouraged by tax incentives, i.e. the corresponding tax policy of the Serbian state. Our country faces a very difficult economic situation, major social problems, and in such a situation tourism is usually the last hole in the play, which is an economic branch that can contribute to the development of the Republic of Serbia's economy. I would just like to compare what Mr. Minister pointed out in his presentation today and yesterday's debate, let's just say that about 60-70 million dinars for tourism in the Republic of Serbia have been allocated from the budget for 2004. With these money, not all the holes on the roads of tourist destinations in the Republic of Serbia can be patched up. How little is it I will try to present to the Republic of Slovenia, for example, only from the Soca River (which is the size of, say, Mlava in the Republic of Serbia) an annual income of 700,000 euros. Approximately, that's the amount Serbia has in a year. So, only from sports fishing, where the daily license costs from 200 to 700 euros. Not to mention other tourist destinations of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary to include foreign capital in reviving Serbia's tourism, because foreign tourists come with foreign capital, and without foreign tourists there is no tourism in the Republic of Serbia, because our people are too financially exhausted to maintain the tourism of the Republic of Serbia. It is quite clear that Serbia needs foreign tourists in reviving tourism, and they can only be attracted to beautiful facilities, quality service, which is what Serbia does not have today, that is what it has not been invested in in Serbia in the last decades, and that will only be if Serbia invests in tourism fresh capital that, according to Serbian radicals, can only come from abroad.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14953	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14954	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 52 paragraph 3 and the amendment says: Article 52 paragraph 3 is amended and reads as follows: "It is not considered to organise tourist trips, in the sense of this law, to sell its own accommodation facilities, without transport services, through its own travel agency. A separate offer and sale of individual services, i.e. a separate account, invoice or collection of individual items for the same tourist trip, does not release a travel agency, or any other legal or natural person from the obligations provided for in this law." A very short explanation: the change of this attitude defines the concept of tourist travel and the obligations of tourist agencies in accordance with the proposed law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14955	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14956	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, provided that the previous four amendments were adopted and that the law had a certain meaning, I tried to amend some of the things that were not clearly defined by this law and make this law more acceptable and ultimately more applicable. What exactly is this about? We are witnessing that our tourist tours, vacations, excursions, etc. organise non-professional or insufficient professional organisations or organisations which deal with tourism as a given activity only temporarily, occasionally and superficially. We witnessed just last year or before that one of these companies, which, besides trade and other businesses, had entered the code of activity and tourism, took several dozen tourists to Turkey, and had not previously provided accommodation, so people found themselves on the street. Thanks to the Serbian government's engagement, these people have been returned without previously taking advantage of the annual vacation they eventually paid for. We are witnessing that unprofessional organizations and businesses dealing with tourism are organising student excursions, enrolling in a program of many things, including parents and teachers, and when going there – accommodation unquality, daily content for these excursions absolutely inadequate and children literally do not see part of what they should have seen, and food and accommodations are below every level and dignity. I wanted to fix Article 53 with an amendment that I couldn't deal with enterprises that weren't very active. So they can have registered activity and a lot of other things, but they can have a heavy activity as tourism or exclude their activity from being tourism. The reason why, for example, teachers in schools and organizers, mostly trade unions or other organisations in enterprises, decide on such tours is primarily a matter of price. One euro cheaper, they catch up, they go blind, they don't have food or accommodation, they don't have the facilities and -- nobody, eat the donkey wolf. As far as I know, those who gave money to fly still stand trial with so-called. The agency that organised that summer in Turkey. As far as I know, a few schools have filed lawsuits against some of the so-called so-called. agencies that organized last year's field trip. I think this amendment should be accepted absolutely. In an explanation of why the amendment is not accepted, it is said: ′′Amendment is not accepted, because Article 16 is paragraph 1. The Company Act stipulates that an undertaking may carry out one or more activities if it fulfils the prescribed conditions for the performance of each of those activities. ′′ These met the legal requirements, and ask those 70 people who were thinking how they would get back from Turkey. Ask the parents who sent the children on a field trip; I'm not saying what's going on on these tours next to this, because the tourist organization can't answer for everything. But if I send a child on a field trip, then I think that child must be provided with that favor I paid and, above all, to guarantee the child's safety. I believe, Minister, that you can accept this amendment and that the law will be much better for you, and even when this amendment is passed, I will also vote for the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14957	I thank Mr. Markovic. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14958	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, perhaps the reason for the refusal of the amendment to Article 53. The law was filed by Mr. Momir Markovic by the minister of his incomprehension for the problems that people and senior professionals from tourist agencies have with what is today in the tourism market, in the sea of various quasi-arrangements and arrangements, called swaging. One of the impressions of Serbian tourism, a well-known expert and tourist worker, distinguished Mr. Branko Kazanegra wrote something in a kind of prayer or oath of a tourist worker, and this is also our association of JUTA published in its monograph, which has a sending connotation, and which is indeed true: a tourist worker, whatever jobs he is working on, and especially in a tourist agency, has to endure everything. So, it has to be a person who is willing to accept in a wide range of jobs responsibility for anything that can happen to a potential passenger or to a service user without a pardon. Here we can address each other with a smile, with sharp replicas or perhaps a sharper speech for someone's taste, or one way or another, to drink coffee or not to drink it when we have free time, but a tourist worker and someone who is the provider of a single arrangement in a tourist agency must be a person who is willing to at any time with a smile and in a more tolerant, but a professional and competent way to present who is the user of the service, a potential passenger, what is it that one arrangement contains. First of all, I have to tell you that this argument of the government is unacceptable, because this Company Act was replaced by the Business Society Act, which came into force three months ago, and now companies, that is, when a company is established, are called. You know that anyone who registers a private company in Serbia or a company in general adds to itself a number of other jobs that it allegedly wants to do. It was founded before, imagine, two months ago by the company DOO ′′ Šumadija fair′′ - Kragujevac; came to the famous idea of a new mayor, who is not exactly in love with Minister Dimitrijevic and this group, is l′ so. Imagine, they also registered for the sale of ′′Erbasian aircraft, and for pigeoneering, and for the sale of chickens at large and small, here is the climate with Mr. Radosavljevic's head. I can't remember, believe me, at half past midnight, I read the codes that are all of these works. Is it normal, then, that someone who thinks of themselves as a tourist worker, the owner, and otherwise I spent a number of years, but hard work, at the first private tourist agency in Serbia that never went to waste... At the time of the sanctions, some colleagues tried to survive by organizing the so-called. Smuggling tours. It's never been done by a travel agency where I've had the pleasure and the honor of working. And not only because of this, but because of the fact that all the other major tourist agencies and people who specialize in some part of the job in the field of tourist offer can work qualityly, do not let this business or making tourist arrangements be dealt with by ′′Schumadija fair′′ - Kragujevac. They just add there and say – organizing tourist trips, and there, collected with carriages and ropes, you don't know who's worse than that managing authority, starts with the director, and in a row. Let's not talk about, say, the rubber industry or some tire factory, which has a retail or commercial business, can organize tourist trips. Then what happens is that only one part of the black moment was cited by Mr. Momir Markovic. For example, it happened to me (I won't mention the name of that tourist agency, but one of you would think it might be high-level professionals) that I would take the high school from Big City and their graduates in 1994 or 1995 to a prom in Athens, with a tour of all ancient sites. These children who came with me and the teachers from that school were not denied (because they were such an agency where I was employed) for everything that was stated in the travel programme, but we always tried (and today the owner of the agency and the employees in it) as well as many other professionals, to offer through what the children, i.e. the passengers paid. By coming to the destination – a complex of Orthodox meteors, I find one large group of students in the organization of one tourist agency, and they are over 120, which the guides who went with the children on the road did not want to introduce to visit either the Metamorphosis monastery, or the others in the complex, which are open to this student field trip, for the reasons that they, behold, brought them to their destination, so what they have now and to bring them in and anything to explain to them. They're people who are unprofessional, and they're in every job, so they're in the field of tourism. If this is the law, and anyone in this room can say hello anyway... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... in one part of the aim was to profile what tourist agencies are able to deal with, under the designation, or license A, by offering and selling arrangements in the country and abroad, personnel trained, who have all the conditions, or licenses, and who are the subagents, then it is amazing that we do not narrow down that circle in such a way. Let it be in Serbia, I don't mind, thousands of tourist agencies, and let them fight for their place through supply and demand on the market and through quality. There are now many more in Kragujevac than this one, one of the most famous... (President: Time, Miss. )......................................................................................................... Here, I'm finishing, the agency, but it survives because of its quality as a passenger, each squad, it also gives over the price paid. And today, you have to admit, ladies and gentlemen, the right privilege of going to a spa in Serbia for the weekend without talking about arrangements for abroad. (President: Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. ) This must be done by people who are highly and professionally qualified or who have qualified for quality service through their work and long - term endurance and through their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14959	Thank you. A brief replica, please, Minister Bojan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14960	Since my relationship with Mr. Veroljub Stevanović is mentioned here, I must say this: we are not in a fight, but I admit we are not in love either.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14961	Please, MP Branislav Stevanovic, on the same amendment. Thank you, Mr. Dimitrievich, nothing better than knowing the nuances. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14962	Since the minister is not with Mr. Stevanovic in good relations, we hope he will make peace. Mr Momir Markovic, an SRS MP, submitted to the 53rd amendment. When it comes to the agencies that are supposed to organize the excursions, I usually know how to set an example in my community. What I'm saying is that we have terrible things when it comes to organized, especially school trips, where they're responsible for whether the directors, whether the school, or teachers, or anyone else is organizing these trips. It happens, so from here to 50 kilometers away, that children who are in preschool or up to the fourth grade primary school charge a trip just to take them to visit the zoo, and for that they charge thousands of dinars, which means they make more than twice as much money on children. And we have to consider that we have a lot of poor children, who can really hardly afford such a thing, especially with parents who have two or three children. Therefore, I urge Mr. Minister to really take this situation into account and that there should be no such opportunities in the future. Often, donations are also mentioned, foreign donations; I believe that there is absolutely nothing invested in the area of tourism during this period of time. We are constantly told that a truly unique Europe, a Europe without borders, but, gentlemen, we must admit that we, unfortunately, do not know ourselves whether we have the sea and whether it is our sea at all, considering that, after the borders with Republika Srpska, we have border crossings with Montenegro, including Kosovo and Metohija. Unfortunately, instead of, as you say, introducing us to Europe, we are, in fact, as far as I can tell about this, just more isolated than the world. Therefore, I would like to draw attention to Mr. Minister and his men in the government to make sure that they try in some near future to unblock and cross and not to be such an undefined state with some strange borders anymore. To allow the average Serbian population to go to sea and to the mountain of course, the government should seriously consider the issue of the average citizen's standard of living. And, of course, when it comes to the situation, if we can, that the Serbian government employs people in Serbia, then we can also expect bigger visits to spas, sea and mountains. I want to say that during this period I have indeed noticed, as a member of the Privatisation Committee, that very, very little, practically, no funds have been allocated here at all from the privatisation for tourism development, so once again I would like to appeal to the Ministry and Mr. Minister to take that into account. But it will be very difficult in this situation to privatise our tourist facilities. As you often urge to lead us into Europe, you need to know one more thing that is very important, and it is that there is also an economic crisis in Germany. We could've noticed that during the day of the first century, there were a hell of a lot of demonstrations there. A friend of mine who lives in Germany for a long time, who has a motel, told me that until last year he sold five-six barrels of beer in a motel and restaurant, and now barely one-and-a-half. So, what I'm saying is that there's an economic crisis in Germany itself, and we're not going to be able to sell our tourist facilities to the Germans and the West at all, which means that we should still, which Mr Tomislav Nikolic often says, turn east, so we should be west to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14963	Thank you. Here's a word from MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14964	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, MP Momir Markovic has tabled an amendment to Article 53. If you read the text of the proposal for this law, you will see that the travel agency, as provided for and proposed by Article 53, i.e. a tourist agency, is an undertaking, another legal person, or entrepreneur, which, in the context of the registered activity of travel agencies or travel agencies, carries out operations under the conditions prescribed by this law. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this doesn't look like an agency. The travel agency must be specialized and exclusively engaged in tourism. If the tourist agency will also be registered for the collection of snails or mushrooms, and is engaged in the provision of tourist services, what happened in the previous period will happen to us. A number of tourist agencies have been involved, among other things, in providing tourist and transport services for the transport of students and the provision of services in tourist transport. We had fatal results from the work of such agencies, i.e. entrepreneurs, who dealt with everything and everything. The Serbian Radical Party believes that strict criteria must be laid down for tourist agencies to deal with these affairs, in order to prevent numerous abuses, and hence the unwanted consequences. This is how it comes to bear the name of a tourist agency, and in practice it deals with a number of activities and is not closely specialised in providing these services and performs its activities as set out in one law. For this reason, I propose, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that in the day of voting you accept this proposal submitted by the MP of the Serbian Radical Party, Mr Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14965	Here's a word from MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14966	It's a miracle the government didn't accept this amendment, because there's only one thing that's different. The amendment states that the work prescribed by this law is mainly carried out, and only because of the words ′′mainly′′ The government did not accept this. In the government's explanation, you are calling for Article 16(1). Company law. I don't think we have that law today. You are referring to a law that does not exist, or the Company Act exists in outlines, and these are transitional and final provisions, but it is a member of 400 and some. I'm sure Article 16 doesn't exist anymore. You have come from logic that every company can perform more work and that it would not be directed that, regardless of the form of organisation, the status appearance, it only limits the activities relating to tourism and what you have stated in Article 54. And we just think that this is necessary, in order not to happen ′′Fantazie′′, that the situation would not happen if someone were formally registered as an agency, and the organisational unit of his agency, based on the Business Society Act, would be a butcher shop, or some other organisational form, and only the word of a tourist agency is misused, and when the work nomenclature is looked at, it takes account of the total income and business, it is seen that 5% of the tourist's total income comes from the tourist activity, and 95% in other ways and other activities. The idea of this amendment is that most of the activity corresponds to the name of the company. The amendment was submitted for the legal certainty of those who use tourist agency services, so that it would not happen that after the payments received, before the delivery of the voucher, the citizen is surprised and see that the title of the travel agency was in practice not a travel agency and did not organise the trip, did not rent, did not conclude the relevant contracts, and the citizens were deceived. I think this government has had problems with a cheating group of tourists, who came from Turkey on JAT's planes, and probably the government knows who cheated, whether that owner, that Turk, or maybe someone close to the government who got a free flight. For a free holiday, a broken tour, the citizens disappointed, paid for one tourist service, from two-bed apartments remained practically some other rooms and some other level of service. Of course, it has a lot more touch points with business control than with what's the subject of this amendment and this member. I believe that nothing bothers the law in this article to hold that word in particular, because it is only in the function of explaining the essence of what needs to be fulfilled by this business operator involved in the business of the tourist agency. So, we don't touch the organisational form by amendment, we don't argue that it can be an enterprise, that it can be an entrepreneur, that we don't enter the form of an organization of enterprises, whether it's a DOO or a stock company, but we're just saying that the most important activity should be what you listed in the next article. I find it really strange that the Government has not accepted this amendment that helps the Government and allows it to go according to the system of clean bills and towards citizens as users and travel agencies as well as those that guarantee a certain level of service.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14967	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Milorad Mircic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 54a be added after article 54a. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, and I assume that the first position of the amendment protects all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14968	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we first discussed amendments to the Tourism Law proposal, I got the impression that fellow members of the Trade and Tourism Committee were also in agreement with this amendment, but when the vote came, the Committee did not vote fully. My colleagues from the DS have abstained from voting on this amendment, and this is how the MPs in the ruling structure voted against, not considering that this amendment is of exceptional quality and that it will improve Article 54 that defines what the obligations of the tourist agencies are. Again, I call on you to pay attention in the voting day and, with all the arguments, to make now one trail and continuity of this story, you vote for an amendment to Mr. Markovic's 53rd, and then, in order to really highly professionalise the area of offers and sales of tourist arrangements, to vote for this amendment by fellow member Milorad Mircic to be behind Article 54, which we have not intervened on, because it has been relatively correctly done, adds Article 54a. It should enable what is necessary for any passenger who has paid the arrangement to have complete discretion and protection when using his arrangement. You know that some state officials, in a political sense opponents of the SRS, have had a variety of experiences when it comes to disclosure, or publishing things from their private lives. We, as a party, have never – and when the media because of the Information Act, which was promoted at the time of power, were the worst accused – were able to justify what those who supported the parties from the current opposition, and later very bad authorities, and no one today moral and normal can support things from the private life of any individual, regardless of whether he is a politician or any other public figure, in the worst way possible abuse. It also happened to Mr. Predrag Markovic, the president of the Assembly, that the media passed on when and at what time he was on skis, whether he brought a sweater, which ski trail he used, whether he was going on a vacation or not, and not only him, but also some former ministers. But it is the principle that tourist agencies will commit themselves in their business to keep a high professional of what is called a business secret, i.e. to allow every user of the arrangement to have full protection in this sense. Any major problems are possible and were in that sense, not only in people who are famous, but in ordinary lives. But who is he, especially the one who sells the arrangement at the travel agency, or the owner of the agency or some commercialist, who dares to dare and dares to give anyone information about when someone came, with whom he came, whether he came on a regular or irregular escort, which I can't justify as a moral woman. But I can justify that senior professionals play a role in protecting every single person, even those who enter these other forms of association. That could happen to the President of the Assembly and to every single person in this room. So let's not let him manipulate himself in that way. At the end of each tourist offer, each tourist agency says that the agency adheres to the general terms of travel and those standards prescribed by law, and it is thought that, as the Government gave me the answer, as a representative, and to Mr Mircic, the Law on Liaison. That's not enough. Then you say -- we can't incur that part of the Bond Relations Act to incorporate into this law. That's no excuse. If that already exists, and many abuse and break that law, and while it comes to a competent court of some people, because of some shame and shame, or because of the misery that has hit them, in that sense they do not weigh criminal charges, why does it bother you to be a member of 54a? I will read it to you in full and invite you, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, to accept it in the day of the vote. It reads: "The agency is obliged to: 1) keep as a business secret (so, Mr. Markovic) everything it has learned about the passenger and without its approval, except in the legal cases prescribed, it must not tell anyone its address, place and time of travel, stay, paid price, nor the names of its travellers. "This can also be very important for some. ′′2) offers the passenger the necessary insurance from injuries, illness, death and loss of luggage during travel and stay, which is also very important, as this can happen to everyone, and most often happens to the loss of luggage. ′′3) when providing tourist travel, excursion or passenger transfer services to use means of transport in which passengers and luggage are provided, as well as catering facilities in which the service users are provided. 4) The transport of passengers should be carried out by its own means of transport, by means of means of means of transport owned by other legal and natural persons registered in the Republic of Serbia to carry out the activity of the transport of passengers, and with the agreement of the resolution ministries for transport and tourism operations and owned by foreign legal and natural persons. 5) in all printed, advertising and other materials, as well as in all business documents visible to indicate the number of the Agency's licence; that it is licensed for the job. ′′6) for each group of 15 to 75 passengers, during the whole journey, hire at least one professional worker, a travel organizer who will follow the tourist group, unless she has hired a tourist guide, or if the guide is waiting for a particular locality, but the companion must certainly be present. I suggest to you, and you see, some of you may or may not have God have, a negative experience, but because of all the other citizens and users of travel arrangements, you accept this amendment from fellow Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14969	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. The word has a People's MP, Momir Markovic, and then MP Zoran Krasic, and then we move on. I just have to make one note, thank you for taking care of all of us with this amendment, but I have to tell you that I really don't have any objections, because no agency has given any information, so my companion has not been known, and the information the newspapers have published is information that is known to everyone and does not originate with the travel agency. It's data that I pay everything out of my pocket, that I often pay and escort and occasionally stop to help people, like, say... Security is an escort, as you know, because three functions must have it. Thank you so much for this support. Here you go, Mr. Markovic, and I'm sorry to keep you waiting.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14970	Mr. President, we from the Serbian Radical Party will always defend you and we will not allow such information to go public, at least not from those who are not in charge. (President: Thank you, too.) Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, ever since this House was held here, we've passed a dozen laws that, when adopted, were able to go into one of the drawers or to one of the policies of the ministers responsible for it. This law should not experience such a fate, and the MPs of the SRS have tried to make this law better, to be applicable, to be correct and to try to explain our amendments so that MPs of the ruling part of parliament also vote for these amendments and to install them into the law. On behalf of the SRS, MP Milorad Mircic submitted an amendment that is absolutely meaningful and absolutely necessary to be incorporated into this law. In the draft law, article 54 explained what the agency is dealing with. Article 54a, which would be the addition of this member, explained what the agency must do to protect the integrity of the person using its services, in order to protect the tourist it has taken somewhere. You will allow it, but even now there is a law that the travel agency must not even give a passenger list to anyone other than the MUP. By supplementing this law to Article 54, we force those who are engaged in this activity, therefore, tourist agencies, to abide by this part of the law. I think, Minister, that if you adopt amendments to Articles 51, 52, 53 and 54 of this law will be absolutely qualitative and applicable and you will have much fewer headaches the next day as a minister; I say the next day, because the day after tomorrow the government will fall, the elections are tomorrow, and on Monday or Tuesday, I mean the fall already, some new minister will come and we are not doing this, Minister, because of you, but because of the minister from the Serbian Radical Party who will sit in your chair the next day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14971	Thank you for your imagination. The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Nikola Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14972	From the government's point of view, the problem with this amendment is that it enters into the Uzans and enters in part into some of the regulations that this matter is regulated. Teached by some experience, why not mention, it is a member of 54a, who is practically trying to prescribe a minimum standard for the activities of organising tourist travel, there are six points where exactly what the agency is obliged to provide, simply, time has shown that there is a need, and I would even say that this is necessary to do. Just to remind you, when there was an accident a few months ago, the turnover of the bus at Lykovec, then it turned out, and the Ministry of Education was somehow competent, because schools organised this trip through some tourist agencies, there was a conclusion that there was some failure, a lack of conditions that the agency had to provide as a minimum service. Should I mention those situations when a citizen regularly pays, buys a service and where the landings waits for no one in front of the agency, no one intercedes in the search for the package, but it's all formally-legally covered by some regulations, so whether it's a regulation that regulates traffic, whether it's the Law on bond relations, whether it's about some wanks that are also binding, but still in relation to the law at a lower level, and then simply the citizen finds himself in wonder, doesn't know who to address or guarantee protection. In this way, the Serbian Radical Party MP suggested that this law be complemented by a new member of 54a and that six points that represent minimum conditions that must be met by the travel organiser. He guarantees whoever uses his services. There is no need for a citizen to point out that some of his rights, unsatisfactory all the time, are being realized by the carrier, according to the hotel or by someone else. His contractual side is a tourist agency, the one who organized a tourist trip. If all of this already exists, as it stands in response to the Government, and it's scattered in some regulations and some sublaws, I can't even say in sublegal acts, but in terms that regulate my own way of doing some work, then we're probably forced to include this as a minimum in this text of the law, just to provide a guarantee to the user of the service, that every agency should know, if not to gain that knowledge through the mirage, then through the legal norm, and that everyone knows what their obligation is when one of these jobs is late. That was the purpose of this amendment. As I wonder about the previous amendment, I am even more surprised about this one, because, you see, the 54a member only treats what is part of Article 54, which is partly regulated in point 1) – the organisation of travel and stay. This is member 54a talking about organising a tourist trip and the minimum conditions that must be met by the organiser. If these conditions do not meet, then this journey is not in accordance with the law and all those who are damaged and dissatisfied have the right to an appropriate satisfaction. This amendment is good for both the government and everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14973	The word is from the People's Messenger Nikola Lalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14974	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we must respect the fact that this law has 135 members, and about 50 amendments have been filed, which means one third. When we consider all this, it is clear that the law does not have a good concept, i.e. that it must go to the correctional exam, which means – if someone does not master the material, they must go to the correctional. In this case, counterpart Milorad Mircic defined himself as submitting an amendment to this Article of the 54th Law and not going to the submitr's exam, but to go to the correction exam, in fact, the amendment. This amendment obliges the agency to meet its client's obligations, i.e. not to happen as the "Tourist Fantasy" case occurred last year, where our citizens were damaged by making a payment for their travels, and eventually stayed on the street. I hope that in the voting day, you will get the strength to push the green button to adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14975	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a People's MP Darko Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14976	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in the final position of Article 59, which provides for licensing, says that the minister prescribes closer conditions and procedures for issuing and withdrawing the licence and determines the amount of costs of the procedure. The amendment stipulates that the ministry is bringing these conditions, that it prescribes a procedure on which to carry out what Article 59 provides. I believe that the minister should accept one such amendment, although the government's argument, which she gave not by accepting this amendment, is similar to some of the reasons for the previous amendments submitted by the SRS MPs, as regards the change in the work not to bring the minister but to the ministry. It is true that the provisions of Article 71(3) are laid down in Article 3. The State Administration Act, which governs the authorities of the state administration, is authorized to adopt a solution, but is not meant here for any solution, but for the terms and procedures, so a regulation on the basis of which A and B licences should be issued. Licence A is designed to organise travel in the country and abroad and license B to organise travel in the country. On the other hand, I would personally advise you, Minister, because you will not be tempted to issue a license that is close to you politically or friendly, so that the "Kurr" on you continues to write about you from day to day, and since we have a bad experience in your government, this seems to me like if we gave the Vice-President of the Government something from the telecommunications area that I have signed, without consulting others – to accept this amendment and to have the ministry prescribe conditions for issuing and possible withdrawal of A and B licences provided for by this law. I am convinced that you will well-intentionedly understand every council of Serbian Radical Party MPs and that you will accept some amendments, so that after the next election, the minister from our party would not have to change much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14977	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14978	Of course, this amendment should not be taken as an objection addressed to the Ministry, but above all to the Republic Secretariat of legislation. For almost three years, we have been practicing that when a state body is to be defined then it resorts to unconistent use of different terms and expressions. Here, this year, the word "minister" has gone dark. It should rightly read - the ministry responsible for jobs. It is a proper formulation, avoiding any change in the Government Act and the Ministry Act, as it is possible to change the name of the ministry, to divide ministries, to move to another ministry. To avoid the confusion, the term is usually used – the ministry responsible for jobs, and in this case, tourism. In this way, it avoids any need to change the law in the future because of the change of the Ministry Act and the jurisdiction of a ministry or the name of a ministry. In this sense, this amendment should be taken as a warning that in all the provisions of this law where you want to define and determine the real name of the state authority, and the authorities of the state administration are with us ministries, then much more correct – the ministry is responsible for jobs, and in this particular case, to stand – for tourism affairs. In this way, it avoids the need to deliver these amendments, and whether it will be signed by a minister or someone else, it is already a matter of some other acts, not regarding this law. In that sense, interpret this amendment of ours.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14979	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14980	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with this amendment, two things surface. First, if there is an error in the previous law and in an explanation of why this amendment is not accepted, it is said - Article 71(3). The law... The mistake is there, so the minister was declared by the authorities, and the ministry was an organ. The Minister shall be the Elder of the Authority, the Head of the Authority, etc. Don't put everyone on the desk. It seems that this ministry has the will to unwork, so it's all done by the minister. Anything the ministry should do, the minister should do. Who's the old man you should check on? Mr. Minister, we want you to be free of your work with this amendment, to allow you to order the Ministry to do business, and you only have to manage this business eventually.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14981	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 60th Amendment, with the correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Ninic, Sanja Cekovic, Blagica Kostic and Stanisa Stevanovic. As the representative of the proposings and the Committee on Trade and Tourism accepted the amendment, with the correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible, I find that this amendment, with correction, has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 60th amendment. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14982	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the sake of chronology, I have to tell you that the whole thing is about this amendment to Article 60. It's a bill of law. Therefore, it is indisputable that this type of licensing of tourist agencies, with A and B licences, must be carried out, and that there must be some non-rigorous, but objective conditions for someone to get a license for one or another to do an agency job. When the first draft of the tourism law was followed, the applicant for the amendments in front of the SP-NS parliamentary group was Vojislav Mihailovic, vice-president of the Assembly, who is now at odds with Vuk Draskovic. I assume that this man, unlike Mrs. Cekovic, who is somewhat from this area, deals with the economy, did not know what it was about. He was then given by the minister, or the government, after she suffered some criticism from the tourist heirs, the amendment, to submit him as an MP and then a single group. Meanwhile, the bill was withdrawn from the assembly procedure and then quite legitimately a group of SPO MPs, headed by Mrs. Cekovic, appeared with the amendment. I do not think that the amendment is good in one part and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia – and above all, the minister and his associates are also familiar with all the disputes about this, which also had colleagues from JUTA and other tourist agencies – should have submitted an amendment to their own bill or called on us, and I, as a supporter of this amendment and Mrs Cekovic, or a group of MPs, to agree on all positions on Article 60. It's a bill of law. Because it is really impossible to accept this attitude, and above all, since Mr Markovic has just announced that the government has accepted the amendment of the MPs mentioned, because it is inconclusive. Already now tourist agencies in Pirot, Vranj, Nis, Kragujevac, Chaka and in all other cities, except perhaps in Belgrade, but there will be a great battle and a great problem, except perhaps in some places in Vojvodina, I am responsibly telling you, they will not be able to implement a position to add to the amendment of the SPO MPs, which has been accepted. Why? Because they sought and accepted that the new position 4 was added after Article 3, which reads: "The travel organizer who has met the requirements for the category A licence is obliged to provide proof to the ministry that at least 10% of organised tourist trips on the basis of organised tourist trips of foreign tourists in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, one year after the date of issue of the licence. "Is that acceptable to you? It may be yours, but it's not one of the owners of the travel agencies, they already know they can say goodbye to A's license. Here, specifically in Kragujevac, it is hardly anyone who will be able, including one who is the best travel agency or best among them, not to favour only one, to meet that condition. If the total traffic achieved, on average, is for one agency in one such environment, which is better business, 10,000, which is indeed a minimum, with quality arrangements, payment conditions, an offer made by someone, but optimally to be, here, in one such city in central Serbia, in the south, east or west of Serbia, 10,000 nights, it must bring 1,000 foreign guests, or tourists, to be that reciprocity, i.e. through the agency to achieve that traffic. Explain to me what 1,000 potential tourists are at 10,000 overnight stays in the country and abroad of total traffic, which should be realized... Mr. Minister, don't disturb me and deal with Mr. Markovic, whose pants are stronger, while I'm talking about this serious matter. So 1,000 foreign tourists in Kragujevac! Well, neither do those alleged strategic partners for the flag. He's taking out the new mayor with his team, "Shefenaher" from Kragujevac. They're different, but they're not tourists. They'd have anything to see. Well, in Vranjska Banja... Mr. Minister, you were on the tourist market the day before yesterday; if any of these people told you there were 1,000 foreign tourists from any country, I really don't know what we're talking about. Of the 10,000 tourists who stayed during the Easter holidays on Zlatibor, there may not have been 50 or 100 foreign tourists. That's sad. (President: Time. ) Now the second question is asked – why only some who are able to do so are favored and are given primate in the business of the tour operator. There's a lot of "why," and there's an answer to that. They might be capable, but the overall environment... Now the minister will explain to me what he was hosting with Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14983	Miss Jovanovic, time is up. The minister wanted to make it clear to me, and to you, that the attitude you're talking about in the meantime was thrown out of the amendment that was accepted. So the position you dispute and he slows down and the promoters disputed, and he is no longer in the bill. So it's a mutual aid. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14984	Mr. Markovic, in the meantime, three seasons have changed on the Kopalnik, so let me tell you, you're not informed, it's your favorite mountain; since this morning it's been sunbathing, it's been raining and it's warming up the sun. What happened in the meantime, I'm not going to speculate at the National Assembly. I believe that the amendment I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, which was due in October last year, was to be accepted. It is obvious that it is an animosity or a refusal by the minister to accept any amendment by the Serbian Radical Party. And he was made in good time, first of all in agreement with the owners of the tourist agencies who asked me to.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14985	Please, the minister is obliged to explain this information.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14986	It was the noble intention of the promoter to encourage so-called. reception tourism, i.e. the arrival of foreign guests. But then we estimated that this would lead to a number of other problems that you were talking about, and then the committee itself gave up that part of the amendment. That's what the Committee took into account and it's no longer an integral part of the amendment, so this is a fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14987	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 60 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Vuksanovic. The government and the Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) With the amendment to Article 62, we continue at 15.00 hours. [[After break – 16.15]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we continue our afternoon work today's session. According to official records, 130 MPs attend. In order to determine the quorum, I ask the MPs to insert their seats into the identification units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. Using the electronic system, we were found to have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. We continue to work on the amendments. The 62nd amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Ninic, Sanja Cekovic, Blagica Kostic and Stanisa Stevanovic. As the representative of the proposings and the Committee on Trade and Tourism accepted the amendment, with the correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible, I find that this amendment, with correction, has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14989	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we're going back to what the minister's job is and what the ministry's doing. So we said the minister is an ad personam variable category. And as far as the ministry is concerned, it must, and now it is the competent ministry that does the jobs and for tourism, and this is combined – trade and tourism, to take care of the violations that will eventually be made by the owners, i.e. the holders of the licence, in the manner in which the licensing of this law has been carried out. Again we come to what Mr. Zoran Krasic said from the legal profession's position this morning. We don't think it's a good practice and that behind all the sublegal acts and behind all the decisions should not be a minister, he's headed by this executive body of government, and in this case, the Ministry of Trade and Tourism. As you have seen, we have not reacted when it comes to sanctions and consequences that should be borne by those who are in violation of these strictly prescribed norms. There's no reason. That is why we have convinced you to accept the amendments to those earlier members, in order for all of this to be rounded and complete, because we believe that all those who have at a certain point received a A or B licence to do business in the field of tourist agencies must strictly and adhere to it. It's something that's new in this law, but it's acceptable for us as an SRS. However, it is not acceptable, and we have also explained to you on numerous examples of tax and some other laws, that in the strict jurisdiction of the minister as an executive authority it is business and his task. The Minister of Trade and Tourism is, in this case, Mr Dimitrijevic, in a sense, a protracted person. Don't literally get me, Mr. Dimitrievich, you don't know where you're going before and on which side you're going, because there are no more two ministries, especially for trade, and especially for tourism. Our tourism industry is burdened with many problems, which we have talked a lot about both in the principle debate and in particular and that we can discuss for days. All these jobs or some of them are closely related to the trade portfolio, because the price hike to a small, market disturbance, the euro rate disturbance relative to the dinar, or vice versa, the lack of financial support, the lack of favourable loans, the external trade deficit and the dependence of our economy, unfortunately, 65% of imports are also directly negatively reflected in the tourism economy. Because hotelers, like all those who follow the chain of that job, are unable to obtain on our market certain quality products for a good offer, are already forced to import them from other countries. Therefore, when it comes to licensing and the possible loss of a licence due to infringements listed in Articles 62 and 63, there are well-set criteria, sanctions to be followed. We believe that the act, namely an indication of it, should not be brought by the minister, but by the ministry, which has been trained, that part that leads tourism, so it should be. These are professional and qualified people who need to see who the offender is, when, under what circumstances and at what time the failures that are not allowed for the holders of one or other licences under this law that you intend to adopt. All the key amendments of the Serbian Radical Party, i.e. the remarks that have been made so far, have made it impossible for us to vote for this bill because of the non-acceptance, and in part, let alone completely.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14990	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14991	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MPs of the SRS group have submitted two amendments to Article 62: one amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic and the other by Zlatan Jovanovic. I will try to explain both amendments and convince the minister and you of the ruling structure to accept these amendments. What exactly is this about? We are going back on the subject of Articles 60 and 61, where the state body - the ministry should make decisions of this kind, and they will be signed by the minister, but don't, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to bring again the situation of the citizens to think that the minister is an organ. The minister is the authority's elder, the minister will sign all these acts, the ministry will pass the act. The reason is very simple. I said in the act before the break, the minister will be up until the election, and the ministry remains after the next one, and after the next and after all the next elections. The ministry is a state body, the minister is an elder of the organ. If you adopt these amendments to the SRS, and I am also talking about previous amendments, I think this law will be applicable. Otherwise, there'll be a dead letter standing on a shelf in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14992	I thank you, Mr. Markovic. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 62 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 64th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Ninic, Sanja Cekovic, Blagica Kostic and Stanisa Stevanovic. The government proposes that the amendment be accepted, the Trade and Tourism Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 64 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Natasa Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14993	Here, you are right now, Mr. Angelkovic, I'm guessing you don't have everything right now, to look at all these elements of the amendments submitted, the chairman, that is, the president has given you the place. The point is that the amendment to article 64 was submitted by Mr Zoran Krasic on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, again returning to the period from last fall, in October of last year. It's about a member who, in the way that it's necessary, but with this one excess provision that we've asked to delete, regulates what is all due to be adhered to by the travel organizer. Many abuses in this regard have already been seen and you may all have a negative experience, or at least some of you, or you have heard, your relatives, your friends and your children. It's a phenomenon that has been tolerated through the lack of awareness of individual inspectors, not everywhere, of course, but somewhere where the degree of corruption is expressed, and one image has been created, because of the already famous examples, that all tourist agencies are a latent danger to such a thing. That is not the case and therefore they should meet all these criteria, to be classified in the category of A and B licences, but the promoter has decided to accept Mrs Cekovic's amendment and a group of MEPs just because they remain loyal to Vuk Draskovic and are now a part of what Mr Minister represents. I don't think that's good, and it's not correct, except on that side, because Mr. Zoran Krasic almost made an identical amendment a few months earlier. So it's free will of the minister to accept the amendment of the ruling group, but I'm talking about the principle here. So there was no good will to accept the amendment of colleagues who, although from the opposition, noticed that this would be a major failure and would interfere with tourist agencies in the realization of their programme. What's this about? The tour organizer with the specified license, as is the case on one of the arrangements, where he stands (here, I have one program ahead) – an attractive destination for London with a visit to several cities, including Paris. The departure was planned from Serbia's destination at four o'clock a.m. In this article of the law, it says that with this program or something like that, when you pay for the arrangement, with general wanks, the contract you signed with the travel agency, the organizer must adhere to everything that stands here. Of course, nobody slows it down. Anyone who wants to attract a tourist, or potential traveler, to the next time, will go to the end in meeting all those promised conditions, or programming details, in that arrangement. In this one or something. But it is, in this particular case, a bus ride. And it can also be a regular transport, by our national or any other company, or charter, and there may be delays, not by mistake or by the means of the travel organizer, but by airlines or by carriers, by bus or by rail, but by the way, you know what the problems are and otherwise when you use regular traffic. In that sense, it cannot stand this part, which Mr Krasic asked for, where he says "to stick with them", because it cannot be tourist agencies, or tour operators, that they know in advance that such a mistake, or situation, will happen. She's really possible. Who guarantees you that every day you will reach some destination by regular transportation; or a late bus, or, God forbid, an elemental disaster, and here are the conditions that are required rigorous. But only if this was removed, which Mrs. Cekovic did with her amendment, which is essentially almost identical to Mr. Krasic's amendment, is the possibility that the tourist agency could be fenced from it. It's unacceptable for someone to put you in a hotel with a lower category. It's unacceptable for someone to promise you... Here, in this arrangement it is beautifully written that with the stay in hotel and that category, which is located in the narrow center of London, you visit all these sights, you have included tickets for some of the locations, and it writes nicely what you do not have to pay. And, there's no dispute, there should be immediate withdrawal of the license to the agencies that abuse and fail to meet the agreed arrangement, because someone had to pay for it, from the first to the last dinar. But if you were to speculate whether the charter plane would be on time, whether it would be a late car carrier, whether something would happen on its way back, speculating how long it would be to stay at the border... Here, specifically in this arrangement, which lasts for 12 days, it did not happen, because it was completed a few days ago, but it could happen, because of the crossing of five border crossings, to be a stalemate, by the indisposed tourist agency and high professional organisation, or by a tourist guide, but by force, as we tend to say. Therefore, the error is certainly corrected by the amendment of the said group of MPs, and this is only about one kind of non-discipline. Because Mr. Zoran Krasic had submitted the amendment a long time ago, seeing all this stuff I was talking about. It's just part of something that can happen in a situation where it's strictly sought, and that includes that captainate that needs to be emphasized, in one of these extensive and detailed programs. That's why... (President: Ms. Jovanovic, it's seven and a half minutes. )......................................................................................................... sent my protest to the minister and to the Serbian Radical Party in general, because of such a relationship with something that certainly affected or should affect the improvement of the quality of the law. Thank you, Mr. Angelkovic. I'm sorry I overstepped my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14994	Thank you for understanding. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 65. The amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Branislav Rankic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14995	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the fate of my amendment is very interesting. Namely, when the amendment was submitted, in October of the month, it was accepted by the government, and in the same text it was subsequently handed over when the law was put back on the agenda and is now rejected. As far as I can see, the same minister, the same composition of the ministry, hasn't changed anything. But simply, then it could and the amendment was good, and now it can't, so I'd like the minister to explain to me why this amendment was now rejected. Otherwise, the amendment proposes to replace the point of entry 65 in the second position after the word "passport" (meaning, at the end of the second position, or at the end of the article), and to add the words "for an unexecuted travel programme, or within 30 days for an incompletely implemented travel programme". What's this about? You have provided that in the event of a failure or incomplete execution of services covered by the travel programme, you will return the funds in full or in proportion to the non-execution of services within 15 days. However, the amendment separated this into two parts, with the return of funds within 15 days in case the travel programme was not fully implemented, i.e. the journey did not occur. The thing is quite clear: the journey was not there, the traveller paid the travel agency, she is obliged and can make it easy to correct and make the refund within 15 days. But when this second situation, when a journey took place, but the travel programme was not fully implemented, then it takes a little more time to determine which services from the travel programme were not fully implemented, to determine the value of these services and to, therefore, return funds for what is not provided. I don't know, Minister, I'd like you to follow this, it's very important, because I don't think the travel agency will be able to determine in 15 days where the stalemate occurred, which these services were not fully provided and how to assess how much money they needed later. I find it very interesting, if you would be kind enough to answer, why didn't you accept this amendment on the second occasion when you first accepted it? It is prescribed in the criminal provisions that, for the non-compliance of this Article 65, punishments follow, and you will be in a situation that you will have an abuse between competing agencies as a possibility. Perhaps someone from a competing agency will purposely seek to pay someone practically not to provide a complete service in the course of a competitive house’s tourist program, bringing a large number of passengers into a situation to seek a refund. The travel agency won't be able to do it in a short time, in 15 days, as you predicted by law, and we'll be in a situation where a large number of travel agencies will pay huge fines without essentially not guilty. Since he doesn't listen to me, the minister doesn't listen to me, and the MPs don't listen to me, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14996	The People's MP Momir Markovic has the word, and then Natasa Jovanovic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14997	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are witnessing that last year 70% of those agencies that led our tourists to Turkey, Greece, in other countries, have done their part of the job correctly. However, with those 30%, where you received the first category arrangement, tourists were placed in second category hotels, third category hotels, hotels with one wet knot, for example, on the whole floor. So that's part of what's not done. When passengers return, they are given the opportunity to charge; however, 15 days is a short term, Mr. Rankic is right there, that everything is seen, that everything is accounted for and come out with a request before the agency. But what about those agencies like the one I talked about in the afternoon, which took tourists to Turkey, there were overbooked hotels, there were no places to put people, people were on the street, and the Serbian government sent planes to pick up those people and bring them back. That agency can appear to say - yes, no part of the arrangement has been made, we haven't provided you with accommodation, food, but you could take a bath, your sea was there, we took you there. Those agencies have to pay the full payment back, and I'm assuming that the Ministry has to take away such agencies' licenses not only for two or three months or two years, but for all time. We literally come into a situation where tourism, like a branch that can bring good quality, good profit, will begin to deal with those who do business.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14998	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u14999	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, it is not possible for the most professional travel agency, which is ready to recognise the failure of a tourist guide, the one who organizes the journey, to look at the estimated time of the violations and failures that took place and the demands above all are for the owners of tourist agencies to be extended from 15 to 30 days. Someone will say, "Well, here is a traveler who is dissatisfied with the fact that not all that is stated in the arrangement offered has an eight-day term, so he assumes that he will make a complaint on the first day." It is possible that one of the passengers, and there is always that, and when everything is perfect, and that all depends on the nature of the person, object to something when they arrive at the destination. They'll say -- I thought this hotel, it's listed as having three or four stars, there's this and that service, it looks like that, and it's not exactly that. Someone may expect me not to know what, towers and cities, but people professionals will offer an arrangement, offer a video, a prospectus with photographs, and someone will know what's waiting for him and what's his transport, that these are modern tourist buses, if the class is listed on the airline flight and everything that represents certain details. But usually when the events are missed, and that's what the passengers are most complaining about, it's an unimplemented service covered by a travel programme. The most common are the failures of the destination, i.e. on the central or on-site destinations, when tourist guides do not meet the obligations of a program that is written, or when they abuse what passengers are, it is not quite a rule, but 80% of them are going on a tourist trip to see that location for the first time, of course, they do not know what is possible and what is not, and someone is potentially speculating, and in most cases they can be very tourist guides or group escorts. This is certainly inadmissible and it is indeed a quality in each guide's offered program to do even more than what is written and to provide the possibility that these people who have singled out money for this journey, someone easier, someone more difficult, especially when it comes to children's excursions, both here and abroad, get the quality program and program that they have seen, that is, for which they have signed the contract. The owner of a tourist agency because of such failures by his associates is struggling. The passenger or passengers, if there are more, object and good attitude 1 says – within eight days. They can appear at the last minute, they come on the eighth day since the end of that service. It happens, and this is indeed so, that the traveller from Vranj, and the headquarters of the tourist agency in Belgrade, Kragujevac or Čačka, remains a 15-day period for the unexecuted travel programme of the agencies, i.e. the law is obliged to deprive passengers. It's a short deadline. Why do I tell you this? When it comes to the fact that obviously a failure was made, it's only perhaps in your power, and in the previous one there is no one who is guilty, the guilty one must exist. Someone who's a manager somewhere, anywhere, and of course, even if he's a minister, he's got to be responsible for his failures. So responsible people, who have or assume that they have responsible associates, should have a certain period of time to see who it is, when and for which reason made a failure, whether it was a random or deliberate mistake, whether there was a lack of awareness in the business, whether there were any circumstances that made it impossible in the particular case of a tourist guide to a particular destination to do so, whether there was a failure by the hotelers. Will the owner, or the one who arranged the arrangement, come to an agreement so quickly with the hoteler, say, because of overbooking, because of the offered service that is lower category? How is this dispute going to end? It's all here at the travel agency, to do within 15 days. Both of these and other reasons that we presented last October, the minister accepted without any problem that the deadline should be extended, because it is indeed 30 days. It can't be 38 days, because from the last day of the scheduled term in the first position, therefore, a traveler can come and complain of his apparent injustice. That's why I think, and everyone will eventually have to pay for what he promised, and he didn't, that it should still be 30 days, because of all the formalities and because first of all, you need to see who's guilty, why the program isn't realized, and under what circumstances all these failures have happened. That is why I think the minister should understand that he has had a failure and that in that staging of new amendments and the withdrawal of the law, until the entry of this new or old in the procedure, it has happened that this amendment has not passed, and if not, since you see it as a matter of indiscretion of the minister – I believe that he is convinced of what I am saying, but now he may not want to say that he has made a failure when he has seen all this – to help in the day of voting and to extend this deadline for tourist agencies from 15 to 30 days.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u15000	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Bojan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u15001	Let me just say what changed eventually in the meantime, why we accepted, and now these circumstances have changed. Because in the meantime we have installed another part of the change in the law, and thus we have come to the meeting of the tourist agencies that in the event of a settlement, we will no longer initiate a misdemeanour against the agencies. It used to be a rule that no matter what the agency defamed passengers, the infringement procedure was automatically initiated. Now, wanting to meet the demands of tourist agencies, we have suspended the infringement procedure in the event of alignment and therefore brought to a much better position of the tourist agency. And we felt that the extension of the 30-day period and the suspension of the infringement procedure would be too much of a concession, so before there was another eight-day period in which the party filed an appeal. The objectively that deadline is not 15, but 23 days. It'd be like this for 38 days. So the party would have to wait for compensation for almost five weeks. Of course, in that amendment that we accepted explicitly, it is now stated that when someone commits a violation like what the Fantasy Ministry has done, they can withdraw the license within seven days, and it is important to tighten the working conditions of tourist agencies. That's an additional explanation, that's the reason, it's not a replacement.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u15002	National MPs Milan Ninic, Sanja Cekovic, Blagica Kostic and Stanisa Stevanovic submitted together to the 66th amendment. Since the Government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 67th Amendment was submitted by Zoran Angelkovic. The government proposes that the amendment be accepted, the Trade and Tourism Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Not to use my right to discuss, just to say that it is the right of union organisations, associations of pensioners, fair, reconnaissance and mountaineering organisations, as well as an institution for social and children's protection that they too, for their members, can organise tourist trips in the country, without obtaining profits, only for their members. Is anyone answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u15003	We were all little scouts and climbers, and socialists of course; now some are not, but being, never mind, there's time. Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS, MP Zoran Angelkovic has tabled an amendment to Article 67. The government has adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legal and that the Trade and Tourism Committee has not adopted this amendment. I want to point out once again that the Committee on Trade and Tourism has a slightly different structure, but its legitimate right to decide as it deems necessary. The essential thing in this amendment is the right of February, reconnaissance and mountaineering organisations to, under conditions prescribed for trade union and pension organisations, or pensioners' associations, to their members, without profit and without public advertising, organise travel. I find that very useful. We used to call this social organisations, and now you call it the NGO sector. Anyway, I just want to say that they worked better when they were social organizations than they are now. The mountaineeres in this country, in this and that great one, snuck up about 280 thousand acres, only on the cave of 11 thousand, on Ibra 8, in Vranje 7.5, but we also forested Buje, Katlanovo, Kutino, Strezjevo, Zadar and many others. So there are these organizations and they should have the rights that others have. The fairy organization needs to get a new image and a new status, but it needs to maintain this right. Scouts - I have to say that the state has not adequately nurtured this form, scouts everywhere in the world have a significant place. It's an extraordinary organization. In every respect, we all need to make these organizations come alive and get this right in this law, and that's why I'm asking for your support. I thank the government that supported this amendment and expect the support of fellow Members of Parliament for the amendment submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic to article 67. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u15004	National MPs Milan Ninic, Sanja Cekovic, Blagica Kostic and Stanisa Stevanovic submitted together to the 67th amendment. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Trade and Tourism Committee proposes that the amendment be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. That amendment has been withdrawn. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 67th amendment. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u15005	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand these agreements of the rest of the Serbian Renewal Movement, Mr. Minister and Mrs. Cekovic in that sense that they have synchronised activities, but I don't understand Mrs. Cekovic and these three MPs who stayed with Vuk Draskovic for withdrawing an amendment that is meaningful and that really enables abuse to be prevented. You know, we've all grown up in one system that's kind of spread the meaning of some competition, activity, and that joint action, and no one can say that there were ugly things, except abuses. You know, if it is a product of this and such time, where there was no competition and where not all individuals who have qualifications and knowledge to come to terms, that under union organisations, cultural and artistic societies, sports clubs and all others who are listed in this article could organise these trips, without obtaining, underline everything that has brought to some an enormous benefit, and that they are not a tourist agency, then I do not understand Mr. Minister why he did not accept the amendment of his colleague, Nemanje Sarovic, and why Mrs. Cekovic and a group of his MPs withdrew this amendment, which is indeed the only one that makes it impossible for the abuses to take place in this regard. We were looking for a colleague, Nemanja Sarovic, that associations can organize a tourist trip from Item 1. So it includes a maximum of one night. What's not a tourist trip, it's staying in one of the facilities and it can't be the same. This is about the possibility that a fully developed destination, including everything that is the contents of the tourist arrangement, which we talked about earlier, could be brought under a union, sports or other organisation, because it is no problem for all of you here in the hall to get membership cards from an association or some sports organization and travel under these unfettered conditions. There is unfair competition, now legally protected competition, tourist agencies. No one argues that they should have the opportunity to do so, without obtaining a profit, as it stands in this position, but this is about getting a get-together in one such arrangement that organizes an informal or formal group of people; in a formal sense they are listed as something, but are informally usually a group that requires a pensioner association, from a sports club to do so and not subject to legal obligations as a tourist agency and can acquire a single profit. They share fantastic diaries among themselves, schedules of graces as long as they need and earn profits, and they don't actually get it. The minister knows that, and his associates know that. However, they decided on what Mr. Angelkovic suggested, or something few existing members had changed. I think that the amendment of counterpart Sarovic, and the amendment in the same text was submitted by a group headed by Mrs. Cekovic, was to be accepted. They later gave up on him, and that is the only way to prevent abuse. On the other hand, if he had been accepted, not all of these organisations would have been unable to organise travel without obtaining profits. This opens up a wide space and creates, at the very least, unfair competition. When it comes to authentic members and people of that age, people who are athletes or activists of that association, we really understand it, but, you know, that someone who hasn't run for the ball in his life, or who hasn't been into sports, come with a membership card, or subdued by some sports association, so he gets the opportunity to use the arrangement in such a way, and there may be various abuses in that sense, I can't accept it, and neither is our parliamentary group. That is why we will also vote to accept this amendment by Mr. Sarovic and against Mr. Angelkovic's amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u15006	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u15007	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, two things should be strictly separated here. One union resort, if there are any more, if you haven't sold everything in this transparent transition, has some more business of your union resort, but when you sold the company you sold the resort and then the owner of that resort is someone else, not the workers. On the other hand, there are pension resorts, there are reconnaissances, that is, young mountainous associations, mountaineering, making their resting places, and this should be separated from what Ms. Natasa Jovanovic was talking about for a while. This is about organising tourist tours, organising a job for tourism organisations. It seems to me that just this kind of informal organization, which formally had a name, organized that trip to Turkey, which cost the country two flights to Istanbul and back. It seems to me that there are a lot of those who, as our people say, will neither onion nor onion smell, pick up a kamak, a far worse offer than the one prescribed to give users, far worse services, and put the money in their pocket. Union organisations can arrange holidays for their members. We have in Canja, it's still being run as a union resort and soon it will probably be privatised, so Serbian workers won't be able to use it either, but it's not the subject of this law. Here we need to clearly separate what the union is, the pensioners' association, the scouts' association, the mountaineering association from what is a tourist offer. It is about large funds that can be pushed through the small door and that informal groups will pick up the Kajmak, while those who have been promised exceptional content remain deprived of it. The question is later – because in the previous position we have said what will happen to a tourist organisation that does not respect what is prescribed in the contract of a tourist offer – which you will be chasing in this case the next day and whether you can withdraw the license from the union organisation or the reconnaissance union. You can't, because you didn't give it up. Therefore, up to two days, and along this fence to separate what is a union summering, union holidays, and for more than two days this means a tourist tour and this means the obligation of the state to protect those who use the services of these tourist organizations in some way. You're not in a situation like this, you can't do anything, you're gonna put people in court the next day, and the trial is gonna take three or four years, and then it's really going to lead to utter nonsense.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u15008	The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u15009	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand the idea that, of course, it is not necessary to convert neither the fairy, nor the reconnaissance, nor the mountaineering organization into tourist organizations, but if this amendment were to be accepted it is such a restriction that they have no rights at all. If this story is accepted that they need one night to organize, then it becomes completely immaterial to my idea and the amendment that we have submitted. Take, for example, a mountaineering alliance. They have a mountaineering home on Rajac and of course they don't go for one night, they go seven days there, they go five days to carry out their actions, their activities, their programme. And now, to make that program of theirs, to go to Rajac, because they don't night one night but nights four or five nights there (and it doesn't make sense that for one night the hikers go to some top or somewhere), they should organize it through a tourist organization. You will say that this is a privileged position and that this amendment insists that this creates the privileged position of mountaineering organisations, fairy organisations. It's true, but that's what we want. The point is that there is a restriction in the statutes of these organizations, not only in membership, but also in the years of life, that it would be a member of a February alliance or a Boy Scout or a mountaineering organisation. In fact, the state needs, that's the essence, and that's the previous idea, to encourage, to find a form to revive these social organizations. We've been talking here for days about other laws, how we have juvenile delinquency, how we have what we have in stadiums, how we have 300 other wonders, not to talk about other things in young people, drugs and the like, and on the other hand, as a state, we don't find the form of these NGOs that bring young people together to be stimulated. In previous times (you will say it is in the one-party system) the ferian organisations received 40% of the Republic of Serbia's budget for organising their travels. Therefore, when a fairy organisation organises a journey, on the basis of the invoice it receives from the car carrier to organise the trip from the Republic of Serbia's budget, 40% were set aside to encourage the travel of these young people across the country to Serbia, then of course Yugoslavia, and for their association, in the end, the organisation of the programme. Look at the last five or six years where our reconnaissance organizations are, where we have a good reconnaissance organization. We almost don't have anywhere. That's not what we should and what we'd like to have. Once someone shows up, and I've been to a world scouting rally (to be precise, for those who don't understand that term, without the intention of hurting anyone) in Chile, where there were over 100,000 people, and then you'll see how these programs are organised. Let us ask how these countries encourage and how they co-finance and help these organisations exist. This is minimal co-financing, if I may say so, or some small privilege that provides conditions for these organizations to exist and find a form of young people gathering, not just threatening to be convicted for 30, 60 days or three or five years if they make an incident. Let's find a form of how to get them together, and one of these forms is this form, where through this amendment they are allowed to organize, travel, make their own consultations, seminars, programs and everything that belongs to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u15010	Anyone else on the same amendment? No, thank you. National MP Dragan Colic submitted to the 70th amendment. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u15011	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 70. The proposal for a tourism law, which requires that the 2nd word "minister" be changed to "ministration" after Article 5, which reads: "If the tourist guide has been sentenced for the second time in a period of validity within two years for the violation of Article 125(1) of the Law, as well as for the lack of respect for good business customs and aliens, the ministry may withdraw the identification and marking of the tourist guide for a period of three months to two years. "Article 125 is defined - fines from 5,000 to 50,000 dinars will be fined if: 1) provides tourist guide services and does not meet the prescribed conditions of Article 70(1). That would be the motivation to submit my amendment. Otherwise, I have no illusion, as an MP for the Serbian Radical Party, that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the minister in this sphere will do something significant, because theory is one thing and practice is another. Many problems are in this sphere. As an MP from Smederev, from the point of view of these local relations and the situation in the city where I come from, I would point out that, thanks to the bad Law on Local Self-Government, there is one bad thing – let's say, the president of the municipality goes, as the president of Smederevo municipality, Italy, Rimina, Padovo, Milan, or I don't know where; instead of doing the affairs of local self-government, travels around the world, more than the foreign minister did, and then, although completely unprofessional for the tourism sphere, he leads some negotiations, talks and more damage ways in this area than benefits. While the president of Smederevo municipality is doing all this on foreign countries and possibly creating some tourist presentation, which is a harsh fact – let's say that the town of Smederevo, with over 120,000 inhabitants, has no single hotel. So, if a guest comes to town, you have nowhere else to take him, except to your house, to take him to sleep. Hotel Smederevo has a blocked account, lost power and a guest has nowhere to stay or possibly spend the night. We have unofficially information, and that is what some media have noted, that a Serbian businessman is interested in buying the hotel and has an idea to turn it into a nursing home. This is just optimistic, and this is probably a real illusion, I can't say it could be some hope that this sphere, this area, at least in the city that I'm coming from. Not to mention, the workers haven't received a dime since November. It may not be very important for many of you, but it is a tradition in Smederev that graduates celebrate their prom at the Hotel "Smederevo", but this time, after being brought to the lowest branches, they will not have a chance to do so. I don't expect any improvement. Perhaps when Mr. Dimitrijevic was replaced by a minister from the Serb Radical Party, and he is a smart man and is aware of the reality. (President: Time. ) I would only point out, if the invitation for many interested tourists to come to the Serbian capital – Belgrade yesterday, he was occupied, he looked more like Baghdad or Lebanon from the darkest times.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u15012	Anyone else on the same amendment? No, thank you. National MP Miljko Cetrovic submitted to the 78th amendment. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u15013	Dear People's MPs, before the break, the minister used the term "office" several times, and then linked it to Zagreb and to the influence of the office, that is, the Serbian-speaking office. It's not Serbian, but it's much closer. It is likely that under the influence of this, a name is also established for those who need to perform services related to Article 76, that it is a tourist animator. Since this office is either an office or an office (the minister says that the office is not our word) in Zagreb, this is probably done from an animated film "Professor Balthazar", which is why it should be called this worker whose task should be to design and implement fun, cultural, sports-recreative and other programmes aimed at organising leisure travellers' time. They're not the same conditions for this organizer, so maybe the term "organizer" is better than for a tourist guide. This organiser does not have to be a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, he does not have to have a residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but must be of age with a fourth degree of education or a secondary school in a four-year period. I submitted this amendment on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, by analogy, and on Article 62(2) – which is why the license is withdrawn. As you have heard from the reasons for Article 70 and the amendment submitted by the SRS MP, it would be logical for the same conditions to be laid down in Article 78 as in Article 62 and for a new position to be added after Article 5 – that the ministry issues confidence about the professional examination of persons who passed the expert exam for the tourist animator. I now have to read as the promoter has stated: "If the tourist animator has been sentenced for the second time within two years for disrespecting the position of the 3rd member, as well as for disrespecting good business practices and fears, the ministry may prohibit the performance of the tourist animator for a period of three months to two years. "Mr. Minister, I asked you if you were in Matarushko Banja; he wasn't a minister, but he's probably often in Kopalnik. The bathroom is no longer a mountain that is available, with all the facilities that have been built, and they no longer wanted the city of the hotel, where the debauchery is being spent, so they probably need these organizers, those who make money with heavy pain and sweat, those who make money with great knowledge and smartness, so they should probably be provided with such organizers and fill the time when they are not on ski paths. There are extremely luxurious hotels in Kopalnik, and for the management of these hotels and for the supply and acquisition of money, the SPO was well taken care of and directly involved in the business of these hotels in Kopalnik. That's what the minister knows, and fortunately, he also knew to be defined in this split-up SPO which wing he would belong to. Whether that wing will keep until this government and the bathrobe shift, that's the point. The minister is aware of everything, because he's familiar with the details of what's going on on in Kopalnik, who supplies hotels and who makes money through that supply.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u15014	Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u15015	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, speaking of animation and animation, the MPs of the SRS and the SRS have animated Serbia's citizens enough, and the results of that animation will be seen in the next parliamentary elections, which I hope will be very soon, in the autumn. The amendment by MP Miljko Cetrovic is required to take away the permit of the animator for three months to two years, if wrong. If we go to the tourist agency who has sinned about our committee, we take away the license for three months to two years, I see no reason why in that chain we would not have made a tourist animator, who, in the end of the line, is responsible for designing and designing the contents of a tourist tour, too, not to punish people, but to make them work professionally, securely, responsibly and extremely rationally.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u15016	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Mr Markovic, I warn you that in the future, under Article 100, you choose words when you talk about the activities of the SRS MPs with due respect, as it is a side and has different meanings. Thank you. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u15017	You know that Mr. Momir Markovic is a well-known Serbian aphorist and he never says anything offensive from a pay phone, but tries to make sure that in his witty manner, sometimes when he talks about such serious issues, he presents additional arguments in order to adopt this amendment in particular on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. Certainly the public and, above all, the users of the service will welcome what is defined in the law, and it is called a tourist animator. It is not an interest unknown to us here in Serbia, but so far it has not been legally defined what the conditions are; and, it remains unclear, and this will be done by the Serbian Tourist Organisation and the competent ministry, on the way and content of the exams that future animators will take to qualify for this occupation. Certainly not enough, especially as it is a new profession, now in an institutional sense new, so that future animators are not punished and are not responsible for the part of the work that they did not do as prescribed by this law. It is possible that the minister is in a legal-formal sense, or his associates, I would say, interferes with the formulation when it comes to this amendment. This certainly through a possible legal-technical editorial, not as it was in the Labour Act, and can be corrected, but the intention was excellent and the intention was right, because in the chain of responsibility for providing services in the field of tourism and future animators, which will have one grateful and interesting but responsible job, should bear responsibility for the possible non-compliance with the conditions, i.e. infringements of this article. The existence of tourist animators, especially in tourist centres, is certainly important, even when it comes to children and adults, because it is not rare for tourists who come to a specific place, or at a centre to have insufficient information about what is yet to be expected and what are more content. The hotelers themselves, sometimes because of lack of funds, and sometimes because they have not properly designed the program (and now they will certainly be able to do so with tourist animators), do not provide enough attractive content for their guests. Indeed, tourist animators are something that is known in all developed tourist countries and centres. It's just, I can tell, from a few years ago, but not everywhere, unfortunately, in Montenegro, certain hotelers hired this kind of frame to improve service quality. However, with us in Serbia, and especially in the Banjski and mountain centres, they will contribute to the arrangement and the quality of the guest's stay, and more attractive and interesting, to invite them, after all, to return if they are satisfied with all that is given them, that there is no vacuum period, that every moment for those who want it, and it is offered to them, filled with a quality and attractive programme. These future animators, as proposed by the amendment, should bear responsibility for the unfinished work, i.e. for the violations provided for in the law, because they are only now being established.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u15018	I thank Miss Jovanovic. Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 82 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Vuksanovic. Since the Government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Milovanovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 84 be added after article 84. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u15019	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 84, more specifically, to add a new member of 84, which reads: "The Ministry of Tourism Affairs will lay down a regulation on the near conditions and way of providing services from art. 79, 80, 81, 82 and 83 of this law. "In order for MPs, which I would like to convince of the justification of the amendment, to better understand all this which carries with them the justification of the efforts of the SRS that as far as we can affect the change of certain solutions in the proposal for a tourism law, I will briefly tell you about the specificities of the services of specific types of tourism, from the provisions of Article. 79, 80, 81, 82 and 83 of this bill, which we consider particularly to be governed by the provisions of Article 84, in order to be in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Tourism Affairs, as this is justified, in view of the matter regulated by the provisions of these Members. In fact, Article 79 provides for services in hunting tourism. We know that many people from other countries come to our country allegedly because of hunting tourism. We have cases, gentlemen and Mr. Minister, that during the term of former Agriculture Minister Dragan Veselinov, and I can say now, at the time of the current Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic's term, there were many abuses of that kind. Well, we have hundreds of thousands of killed birds, who are illegally exported and exported from our country, mostly to Italy. Whether or not the content of providing tourist services is set out in the provisions of this Article 79. The bill also implies this type of action that is going to harm the state and our natural resources? Certainly not. And that is why it is necessary for the provisions of a special member of this law to be regulated in more detail, from the competent ministry, to provide all these tourist services, in order to avoid abuse. Also, in Article 80 – services in congress tourism – will people who come to our country on various grounds, cultural, sports, political, scientific, be happy to come to Serbia, when they know that we have a lot of individuals here, state officials who spoil our country's reputation and harm our country? I won't say – will the Swedes come to Serbia, except for Bo Anderson, when we know that certain state officials (I won't name a special political organisation or political party, I won't name a single individual) harm our country's reputation. Furthermore, I believe that the services mentioned in Article 81 are justified in youth and children's tourism, with special conditions to be determined, as requested by the tabled amendment, by the competent ministry. Justification exists on many occasions. Of course, there will be a small ad: there is one object in the Alexina municipality for youth and children - athletes, Lipovac, in one beautiful area, in the area of the medieval monastery, which stands there and there is the possibility of providing services of this kind, only needs more precisely, by the Ministry, to regulate all the conditions that these facilities, which are supposed to have, fortunately, in quite a number in Serbia's territory. Furthermore, services in rural tourism: organisation of hiking tours, fishing, etc.; then, product tasting (although it looks a bit like some people from a previous, left-wing period, not to mention, individuals from left-wing parties); activities to know the heritage, lifestyle and traditional values of the rural culture – there are few, gentlemen, problematicly, parties in the ruling furniture that do not care much about respect for tradition, culture, not only our people and members of our national minorities, but also rural areas. I will not cite these political groups, whose MPs and MP groups are present in this assembly. I suppose it will be recognized, and the citizens, in any case, know who we from the Serbian Radical Party mean. In the end, since I've exceeded my time, Mr. President, I'm going to mention car rental services in the provision of services in tourism. It's okay, but there's a little bit of overrule in Article 84, because I don't think all of these technical conditions need to be regulated by the tourism law, some other laws regulate it; this question of at least three registered vehicles that should have a rental service provider. But given the state of our roads, it would be better to provide for the rental of tractors, unless your new Chume, on behalf of Miroslav Miskovic, will pave the way for and improve the conditions of travel network and traffic in Serbia's territory, so that they can rent a car rental car for certain companies, legal persons and entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u15020	Thank you, Mr. Radovanovic. Please, the word is Natasa Jovanovic, and then, following the same amendment, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u15021	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr Milovan Radovanovic's intention to submit amendments on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, was very clear and responsible. I don't understand why the Ministry is running away from being involved in the adoption of sublaws when it comes to each of these specific but very important tourism branches that Mr. Radovanovic cited. So, it's a good thing the law is now defined, through this brief description, but somewhere it's substantial and somewhere it's not, just like my colleague Radovanovic said, what are services in hunting tourism, congress, children's, youth tourism, rural tourism. The intention of Mr Radovanovic, who is normally a lawyer, and was led by a minister's portfolio, when the SRS was in the government of the Republic of Serbia for a time, was to make the ministry responsible for tourism affairs more detailed in this regard. It's serious stuff. It is something that is not stimulated enough, each of these individuals, not every one to the same extent, but, for example, in hunting tourism, as Mr Radovanovic said, our opportunities are untapped and much larger and numerous examples. Here, I'll tell you just for example the Ecks and the Imperial Bars. Extremely good accommodation capacity at the Sibila Hotel is insufficient to accept, as well as all accommodation facilities around, and the capacity of Zrenjanin itself, all those potential foreign tourists. It's usually Italians and British tourists, interested in, of course under the prescribed conditions, hunting tourism. It is not that hunting tourism, as my colleague Radovanovic said, when several tens of thousands of rare birds in our country, from the Western District, in one criminal ′′job, completely destroyed, or exported abroad by former Minister Dragan Vesenov, but rather something that needs to be imperative for us, as well as congress tourism itself. Among the MPs, there are many experts from various areas, in the ranks of the Serbian Radical Party, doctors, respected businessmen, agriculture experts; all of these people, just as some of you, have been able to visit some of the congress centres and engage in some professional debate. And you've seen how much developed countries in the field of tourism add to that. There's nothing left to do and really the smallest details are being taken care of. Not every one of these countries is qualified, not every one of these cities, to organise a convention for a given topic or for a professional and scientific session, because certain preconditions are needed. If we are a country, and thank God we are, which I repeat, has an attractiveness in the tourist offer, an extremely friendly people and professional and qualified people (with a lack of money that can be provided through direct foreign investments), then our congress centres should also be a meeting place for experts from various areas. But it is necessary for people who have been given the opportunity to organise these types of tourism, specialised branches of tourist offer to receive more detailed instructions, i.e. regulations on how and conditions and all that they need to be helped. Mr Radovanovic's proposal was not here, as it says in the government's response, which is unacceptable to me, that an additional megalomanical administration is making it difficult for the ministry. It may be difficult now because the ministry of trade and tourism has joined together, so they consider it an additional or larger ballast, if this amendment is accepted by colleagues Radovanovic, but we should not just fly over what is now defined, because it says that these are specific services of specific types of tourism. They are, too, through the direct use of these services, and through indirect vomiting, through some other industries involved here, allow for greater income. It is no problem, if the ministry is responsible, if it has qualified and professional people, to determine the conditions and regulations for these specific branches of tourism, which certainly any minister from the Serb Radical Party would do to help those who may only have the intention to get involved for the first time and to seriously deal with one of these tourist branches. It was the intention of a colleague of Radovanovic and is indeed an incomprehensible response that was provided here, it is not satisfactory for anyone in this room. I suppose colleagues have read, because if you boast the successes of the government and if each of these MPs from the ruling group is ready to defend one ministry at a time, then for each responsible politician and MPs, what is written here is unacceptable – that it is additional, imposed or imposed on the ministry. We are responsible people, we Serbian radicals, and we believe that one minister should do so and that through these additional instructions and regulations, he should help those who intend to deal with this and gain income for themselves and for the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u15022	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. I appeal to you, you will stick to the times that are according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u15023	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, if an amendment is to be adopted, the amendment of MP Milovan Radovanovic should be adopted, precisely because he asks for a member of 84 to be added behind him who says – the Ministry of Tourism Affairs will bring regulations on closer conditions and how to provide services from art. 79, 80, 81, 82 and 83. Why? Because this is about specific tourism branches. Article 79 refers to the provision of services in hunting tourism. Of course, that's not where domestic hunting tourism is meant. I remember a time when it was mandatory for you to engage in hunting tourism for the hierarchical DOS scale, so the minister, who later became Minister Dragan Vesenov, was caught three times in poaching, once took away by a tractor and two rifles. The second time, they took away his rifle with a night gun, which only the army has. How did he get to her? He probably stole it because he wasn't on the battlefield. I know that for a fact. Anyway, he became a minister and all the criminal charges that were filed there were returned, or withdrawn, and I heard he'd also asked for compensation for using that tractor since they took it away from him until they gave it back to him. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have extremely beautiful and quite rich hunting grounds, regardless of the scruples similar to Dragan Veselinov, and the possibility of making a lot of money from hunting tourism. In front of Serbia is one of the branches that will require very little investment, and will provide much benefit to this country. Special attention should be paid to hunting tourism. In doing so, resources must be kept safe, so that they do not happen to cool down with singing birds, with celebrations, with protected species, with species protected throughout the world in Italy by various smuggling channels. For hunting tourism, the Ministry must make special regulations. Services in congress tourism – we, however, cannot boast that we have many hotels and conference halls that can accept congress tourism and that from the beginning to the end, but we have Hayat, congress halls in Kopalnik and in many other places, and the Ministry needs special regulation to regulate that part. Next is youth tourism. In Article 81, we are in a position to discuss what was said about half an hour ago. Article 81 of this law partially regulates the issue of youth tourism. Mr. Milovan Radovanovic asked that the special regulation that the ministry will bring and this type of tourism be regulated, precisely because there would be no abuse and that people of our minister's age do not appear in youth tourism; secondly, so that young people can make the most of this tourism branch for relatively cheap donations. Next is: services in rural tourism. These are the potentials this country is yet to develop. All that we have, these are all conceptions, they're just self-schools, nowhere organized, not maximum organized and trained tourist followers; they're people who deal with agriculture and in the house they built they have two or three rooms that can betray in this kind of tourism, in rural tourism. The ministry must adopt regulations because there are no regulations for rural tourism, and in this law it is not well regulated enough, and that this branch of tourism develops and thus helps the village to spend what is produced here and to take the tourist dinar out of it. Finally, Article 83, which should also be regulated by a special regulation, which is vehicle rental services (rentakar). We have today, I don't know if the Ministry gentlemen know that, so many wild rental companies, unreported, who have three or four vehicles and take fat money. And the users are not sure that this vehicle, no matter what it looks like, will go to the destination where they wanted to go and come back. Mr. Minister, adopt this amendment will benefit you for a while, and will be used specifically by the Serbian Radical Party's minister after the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u15024	Thanks again for the imagination. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Rodoljub Gačević submitted to Article 90 of the amendment. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Rodoljub Gačević has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u15025	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is the ministry that regulates the rules, regulations, conditions and so on, and it is the minister who controls, organises and signs it. That's how it's supposed to be in this law, not "Minister," but "Ministership." All these regulations and prices should stand in tourist offers, because the foreign and domestic tourists are very rational, in terms of selectability and in terms of austerity, so that each spent dinar, or any provision, will be controlled. The rule that applies in the store or in the restaurant with us is, about, reads like this – if you are satisfied, tell everyone, and if you are unhappy, tell us. It doesn't apply here, here's the rule - if you're unhappy, then tell it to everyone. It simply imposes competition, and so it will also be on our local tourist destinations, this rule will be used to show the comparative advantages of one destination compared to another tourist destination. As far as the price is concerned, I would also point out that the price is one of the most important, perhaps primary parameters, that each tourist is interested in prices, both foreign and domestic. In that sense, the price will be one of the important parameters, and our prices are free to say they are more than anywhere in the world, so the destinations on our Montenegrin coast are more expensive than the destinations of the same species in Bulgaria, Greece or Turkey. Until all these relationships are brought into a coherent, rational framework, very little can be expected from our tourism and our tourist offers.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u15026	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 100 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Penezic. The government, the Trade and Tourism Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Penezic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u15027	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what I bend often seems to be heard, because usually someone doesn't listen to me, and I want to tell you that in most amendments there have been a lot of words about the word "minister" being replaced by "minister" I would here, without the intention of criticising, obstructing, with the intention of helping, in this case I would advise the ministers to accept this amendment, because in our people we say - one man knows less and more people know more. So, in the ministry, you often have a minister of law, an economist or some other profession, which doesn't have much to do with the area being spoken of, but that minister has deputies, assistants, his associates, so they would do about that ministry. This is exactly where you have an excuse, you say you're defending yourself behind the State Administration Act, which requires it all. Okay, but I'd like to ask you to step down from that law at times, although the law cannot be deviated, to make some concessions in this case. I'll remind you again of some local problems. I personally spoke to four ministers, now I will name them: Mr. Aleksandr Popovic, or three, Mr. Naumov and Mr. Dimitrijevic yesterday. I did not address Mr Tomica Milosavljevic, who should also be included in this team. The question I asked was about tourism and should be addressed in one agreement by the ministry, and that is all the ministries whose representatives are mentioned ministers. The question refers again to the waters of Lima, to the lakes around Pribo, i.e. the golden lakes and from here I refer to the appeal, here, a letter came from Minister Naumov to his hands; a memo he received yesterday, although not addressed to him, Mr Dimitrijevic, he will consider it. When I spoke to the minister (and now I will explain to you why - the ministry, not the minister) of Naumov, I asked him to listen to me, and I got the answer – I heard that something was cleaning up there. Can the minister hear something going on over there? There is nothing more to do than kill a complete flora and fauna, better said, plant and animal world, and just at the time when we brought an idea project about a tourist offer on Potpečko Lake near Pryboj. In another example, I will support the view that it is better for the ministry to make a complete decision, or ministry, because you know that foreign ministers, when they go abroad, act as free shooters, so someone signs something, someone promises something, someone apologizes, someone just doesn't kneel on their knees, and nobody asks their deputies, assistants and their people. Therefore, ask your associates, consult, come with them, with professionals when you categorize the tourist facilities of Article 100, on which I have submitted the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u15028	Natasa Jovanovic's MP, for the same amendment, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u15029	Again, we return to the minister as the holder of this part of the executive authority, i.e. the head of the Department of Trade and Tourism, and our disagreement, not only with this law, but with all the legal provisions, that the minister prescribes conditions (and here it is about determining the category) for editing and equipment, special standards and service facilities, as well as how to determine the category of catering facilities. We think it should be done by the ministry. The Ministry tells us, or government, that this is related to other accompanying laws. We think we should change them too, but it's another job for us, or for the SRS, when we are, and it's going to happen very quickly, in an opportunity to change that whole set of laws. Then we'll tell you what our objections are, and we'll tell you a lot about the government of the Republic of Serbia, whose shift we're looking for, and when the next point comes on the agenda. The Ministry Act has been sharply criticised and submitted by many amendments. I wanted to take the opportunity to say something that was said at the Committee's session in September, when the draft tourism law came; whether because it was at the end of the tourist season or because it was attractive to individual fellow Members, I mean these from the ruling structure, to come and talk about it, but that's what ended. Here, I see, although they support this bill, there were not many discussions, and the problems have been observed; anyone who has any possibility of moving, and it is MPs who go from the National Assembly to their place of residence, who is able to see that our hospitality on the magistrate's roads, on our highway and on all other localities is not in the brightest position. Not because people who are employed in these companies are not qualified to work, I said in the opening statement that most of the jobs involved in local and regional tourism do not require high qualifications and that the largest number, according to statistics, is, just when it comes to catering, the female labour force is employed. This could be much more and much better, especially in the part of the highway from Belgrade to Nis and from Belgrade to Novi Sad, when it would take care that the Ministry of Capital Investments is the one that should be the driver for projects in tourism. Because no developed infrastructure, no so-called. green roads, no tracking facilities, and here we are talking about catering facilities, we can't expect that quality of service to be better, and that's what we can't fully boast about. Still many incentives are needed to make progress in this regard. Several times, an action was taken by former ministry leaders to visit these facilities along the highway, motels and catering facilities. Some have seen certain mistakes, some have been privatized in the meantime, but there are not enough. Through this approach to regulating this area in law, which we cannot dispute in this Article 100 that this should be done (not just by the minister, but by the ministry), and with everything else to do, and thought primarily of financial resources, should be expected, because there is potential, and that is the possibility of hiring a large number of women and male labour, that something should start up better in this sense. Because, of course, people who have opted for this type of service and for providing catering services, in a situation where they have a competitive and developed market, will try to provide the best possible quality. The question is whether all those who have been given permission to do this job so far have done it in quality or have done it for a while, and the quality has subsequently fallen, but at the end of the service it is for the users to assess it. And later, at the end of the discussion of details, which obviously will not be today, we will also talk about criminal provisions when it comes to hospitality.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-12-0.u15030	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. )We have stopped at the amendment on Article 102. Since it is 18.00 hours in, I would like to inform you, under Rule 81(4), on account of the importance of the items on the agenda, we continue our work on Monday, 16 May at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 100 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dejan Rajčić, Radic Jokovic, Ivan Zivadinović and Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON TURISM (resumption in particular) The amendment was submitted by MP Zlatko Radić. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Zlatko Radic.
