ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11509	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 125 members of Parliament. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 84 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Aleksandar Vlahovic, Milisav Petronijevic and Branislav Nedimovic. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: –PROGRAMME OF THE RAD LAW (continuing in principle) The word has a National MP Takač Istvan.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11510	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is now on the agenda of the Assembly a draft labour law proposed by the Serbian government. The applicable labour law has lasted only three years. Working engagement and situations regulated by the existing law are now presented with modern solutions, as he characterised in the address of Minister Lalovic, and certain values regulated. New achievements, generally accepted rules in the EU, which we want to draw close to, I believe that the proposed measures in Article 18 concerning the prohibition of direct and indirect discrimination on persons seeking employment, as well as employees, in view of gender, birth, language, race, skin color, etc., as well as other standards provided for by the Convention of the International Labour Organisation and the European Directive have been incorporated into this draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus and keep your attention on the following issues, which are regarding employment, which I believe employers, society in general, and individuals themselves who seek employment must respect. First, expertise, learning, education during the working century, i.e. obligations and rights of the employee in relation to the employer in order to exercise this right. Second, the continuity of work, i.e. the working relationship to an indefinite or fixed time, the possibility of abuse of this institution, i.e. the obligation of all factors to act preventively in this area. It is known that the expertise in the transition of society is not highly appreciated. Individuals' skills need to become more and more expressive, but generations who are unable to be employed are thinking about finding their better future in other places. The G17 plus on this issue advocates a clear definition of obligations and the determination of clear, economic parameters for overall economic activity, and hence the good business results of economic operators, to be the driving force of society and to provide new jobs, especially for new generations. With regard to this phenomenon in the draft labour law in Article 49, the definitions are positive. Each profession, every employer, firm, must regulate and provide professional training, security for its employees. I believe that this issue, both general and special collective agreements, each in its specificity, must devote the necessary space, in order for current and future employees to have the opportunity to improve knowledge, i.e. innovation of the same. It is a positive tendency for us and the surrounding countries to know that without graduate engineers, technologists and other profiles of highly educated people, there is no progress and companies cannot achieve good business success. Another question I'd like to point out is the continuity of the work. G17 plus in its programming definition advocates a quality performance of obligations at all levels, both by the employer and the employee. Among other things, for these reasons of permanent employment, the results of work are not achieved. Why do I think this question deserves special attention? Because in Article 37, point 1 is replaced by the following: "A working relationship for a certain period of time can only be designed to carry out certain tasks for a period that is continuous or with interruptions lasting for the longest three years". The aim of the legislator is good, that the deadline on which a working relationship can be completed for a certain period of time, up to three years, is a positive thing, because in life there are extreme events, which general norms like the law can regulate in a similar way. The application of this institution in practice allows for a different interpretation. For the sake of their security with employees, employers conclude a contract at a certain time, say three or six months to carry out most business tasks, and thus periodically renew the number of employees in their companies and do not need to price whether a particular employee works well or not. I believe that the draft law leaves adequate freedoms in the event of non-execution of workers' labour obligations that the employer may resign pursuant to Article 179 if the employee fails to achieve the result of the work, i.e. there is no necessary knowledge and ability to carry out the work, if the employee does not respect working discipline, if technological, economic and organisational changes stop the need to carry out a particular job or reduce the size of the work. That's why I find it unwarranted practice for employees to be unfairly exposed to so-called. working for a certain time. At the same time, I would like to point out a positive solution to the draft law in the engagement of inspection bodies and the proposed solutions concerning detention from the execution of certain solutions by the employer, if they consider that they are contrary to the law and sublegal acts to the jurisdiction of the decision of the competent authorities, as referred to in Article 270. It's a bill of law. The proposed solutions in the draft labour law on the protection of employees when the employer goes bankrupt in the next transition period will be very current. That this problem is not only relevant in our economic circumstances and that the EU has had to protect its employees by its directives and amendments to those directives, and also recommends that other countries that wish to join the EU do so. Therefore, there is no criticism that this is a fiction only for our country's daily political needs in transition. This serious problem, I believe, is that no company can solve this on its own, so the establishment of the Solidarity Fund provides a proper solution to this problem in the long term. It is true that the economic power of the state depends on economic giving, as we heard in the explanation of the minister at the end of yesterday's debate. Our options are modest for now, and this system law should allow for the future to be better. Certain proposed solutions have been complemented by amendments to the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group, which considers that they should be incorporated into the legal text, in order for the law to be more effective in application. G17 plus believes that the proposed solutions in the text of the labour law meet the current needs and can positively improve employment, and support and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11511	The People's Messenger Momcilo Duvnjak has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Slobodan Adzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11512	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will speak briefly about this labour law and clearly everyone understands me. I'm a craftsman, and I don't know how to give big political speeches, like those who propose labour law. They can talk by tomorrow without being understood by people and ordinary people. The draft labour law, which we are having in principle, is a step forward in relation to the law that is in force, which has been adopted by the so-called so-called. Democratic power in 2001. However, the proposal for a labour law can also be called a law on termination of work or a law that does not care about thousands of workers in Serbia, who are left out of work and employment on a daily basis. Also, this draft labour law gives great authority to employers, great administration and a huge amount of documentation that a worker must prepare, and also to learn the provisions of laws, various contracts, obligations and rights to work and to make some profits. This bill must give greater rights to workers and their trade unions, especially in those companies that are either on the verge of business or are in bankruptcy. It should be pointed out that not all workers are lawyers and that many of them will not understand the provisions of laws that contain a large number of provisions, the European Union Directive. They will also learn that if the profits are as in the countries of the European Union. A large number of midfield workers from which I come, where companies are without a perspective for development, and everyone wonders whether the provisions of the law will stimulate all of them not to receive a minimum, but to earn better living. They also point out that this law builds new bodies and bodies that will be financed from their pockets, which can be done by already established ministries. Why the socio-economic councils will establish minimum earnings alongside the government and the competent ministry. Could a ministry or their services be doing the jobs of a newly formed Solidarity Fund, which will spend more money than my October 14th from Kruševec. There are a lot of controversial members in this law. For a short period of time and for my colleagues from the SRS to say more and better than I do about this law, I will only point to Articles 196 and 197. This law obliges the employer in those members to conclude a contract with a member of the cooperative. This provision is contrary to the Cooperative Act, which concludes the contract on temporary and occasional transactions with the employer, not the cooperative itself. Cooperatives, especially at farm jobs, refer 50 to 100 cooperatives to work, whose names are listed on the work manual. You can imagine what it would look like to work under this bill if each cooperative had to conclude a special personal contract, which is pointless. This draft law in Article 197 allows for the work of cooperatives up to 30 years of age. So far it's been 35 years, and especially at jobs in agriculture and forestry could have been older. It is evident that more and more employees are over 30 years old. Under this bill, this population, and relatively young people, will not be able to work on temporary and occasional jobs, i.e. it will not be able to be directed to work through youth cooperatives, and it is also a paradox. This draft law in Article 196 allows the employer to employ a number of short-term workers. If these jobs are provided for in the systematization Regulation, there is no mention of the number of perpetrators. So, if the employer has 10 employees, for example, employees. In the vineyard, he should be harvesting grapes for two months, during which time the grapes would fall. There's a question of whose interest it is. Enough is the limit proposed in the law that occasional and temporary transactions are those that do not last longer than 120 working days, there is no need for another restriction. In the end, the Labour Act, which was passed by the former DOS regime, disfigured our workers and did nothing. They thought they were the smartest and they didn't want to consult anyone. I come from Kruševac, which was between fourth and sixth places in 2000 for gross income, and in 2004 in 70 and some place. In 2000, there were between 4,000 and 8,000 workers at the Kruševec Employment Bureau, and in 2004, over 35,000 workers. You see the law passed by the former DOS regime, so this government would have the same fate, I suggest you withdraw this law to do so, because you're not doing well. It's not clear to me that in this government, they're all experts, doctors and masters themselves, and they're proposing such a bad labour law. I think this labour law was proposed by those who didn't work or had some interest, and since school they probably have two classes and books for the third. At the end of yesterday's debate, Mr. Minister addressed us with a raised tone, pissed off at the remarks of the MPs on this labour law. I'd ask him to come to Kruševac and explain to the workers "October 14", "Tradila", "Zupe", "Brussians" this tone and explain the labour law, so let's see how it goes. The minister says we fell from Mars. Mr. Minister, we didn't fall from Mars, but you fell from a tree to a head and proposed a law like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11513	The word has a People's MP, Slobodan Adzic, and let MP Momir Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11514	Dear fellow MPs, respected ministers, the DSS MPs support the government's draft labour law for several reasons. Formally speaking, the bill is more compatible than with international labour law. A number of requests from the International Labour Organisation, as well as the European Union's directive on equal treatment principles in relation to gender, race or ethnic origin, choice of profession, working time, protection of employees' rights in the event of changes in the employer, collective dismissal and in the case of bankruptcy of the employer, have been respected. Secondly, most of the DSS remarks made in the adoption of the law that is now in force have been incorporated into the draft law that we are now considering. Third, representatives of the union gave a positive assessment of the draft law at the meeting of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, and employers' representatives have no major objections to the law. The bill contains major or minor changes in all chapters and introduces three new chapters, claims by employees in the event of bankruptcy, the rights of employees in the event of changes in the employer and the power to adopt sublegal acts. As regards the basic provisions, the additions relating to the prohibitions of discrimination are significant, and the fact that the field of proof has fallen to the employer will facilitate the fight against indirect discrimination in the field of labour-legislative relations. With regard to the establishment of a working relationship, improvements have been given with the household staff, and the minimum amount of earnings paid in money is now 40%. The new solution is that the employer carries the cost of education, training and training for the work of the employee in case they are carried out for the needs of the employer. In chapter - Working hours, an excessive night's work is foreseen as a special condition of work. The paper is also that in the chapter - Rest and absence, a 45-minute working vacation is introduced for employees who work longer than 10 hours a day. The draft law specifically regulates the requests of employees by defining the concept of outstanding claims, setting a reference period for the movement of bankruptcy proceedings. Thereafter, there is a detailed regulation on how to establish and operate a solidarity fund, something that has not existed so far, as well as a procedure for achieving and paying off these claims both with the employer and the solidarity fund. In the chapter - termination of employment, the bill contains additions to the conditions under which the employer can offer the employee the conclusion of a labour contract, under changed conditions, etc. An annex to the contract. The conditions for the transfer of employees to another place of work are specified in detail, primarily the nature of the work, distance, organised transport, as well as the temporary reference to another employer. Here, too, it is also important to mention the details regarding the burden of proving the reasons for the founding of the job contract by the employer. The paper is also that, in the event of overworking, the employer has an obligation to submit a proposal for a programme to the representative union and the competent employment service for the opinion. One of the most significant concept papers and improvements in the bill's proposal is given in a chapter dedicated to the rights of employees in the event of changes in the employer. The transfer of the company is not the basis for the cancellation of the labour contract and the employer takes over the rights and obligations acquired from the delegated labour contract, which was concluded by the previous employer. The employer shall also be obliged to apply the collective contract until the expiry of its validity and for a maximum period of one year. The proposal for a law in a more comprehensive way regulates the establishment of a union of employees, the working conditions of the trade union in employers, the conditions for obtaining representativeness of trade unions and employers' associations. But despite the good points of this bill, there are certain shortcomings that, in my opinion, could have been removed in order to make the proposal complete. The bill retains the solution for the employee to stop working under the law's force due to bankruptcy and liquidation, although this could have been done differently. The draft law also retains solutions to the rest of the working relationship. A particular problem is the rest of the working relationship of the person employed in the selection, i.e. the appointment of the national authority, trade union or other public office. The law could have more clearly defined a function in a state body or another public function that justifies the rest of the working relationship. One of the problems today, at the time of privatisation of companies where employees become minority shareholders, is a specific relationship between owners, i.e. representatives of the majority package owners and minority shareholders who are at the same time in the company's working relationship. The bill promoter had to bear in mind that the majority owner and minority shareholders are in a specific property-legal relationship, which directly reflects the working-legal relationship between the employer and the employee who is also a minority shareholder. In fact, the employer is a majority owner. In practice, there are many cases where employees of minority shareholders, because of their actions in order to protect their stock status, are being chicanted by an employer who is a majority shareholder. The bill had to provide for some protection mechanism, similar to protecting union activists, at least in the transitional period, until the process of privatising social enterprises was completed. If we do an analysis of the application of the applicable laws, and in particular take statistics on the number of employees who were fired by employers, or customers of social enterprises, then we will surely conclude that the law that has now been in force had devastating consequences. The failures and shortcomings of the law have rightly given many of the buyers of social enterprises the risk of financial difficulties in which they have fallen to employees, sharing mass layoffs. I dare say that the Labour Law has contributed to the dissatisfaction of the privatisations made in Serbia, to the same extent that all other factors have contributed together. Thanks to this law, employers were able to unpunishe and without any consequence, mass-release people. Therefore, this law, whatever shortcomings it has made, represents the great progress made by the promoter, and I hope that the MPs who have tabled a number of amendments will also contribute to making the law even better and better regulated working-law relations than they have ever been. The bill, with amendments it will endure and accept, by the government, a number of amendments submitted by MPs, despite the number of shortcomings, is acceptable for the DSS parliamentary group. We expect that, with the application of this law, a number of injustices in the field of labour law relations will be prevented or at least partially mitigated. A better position of employees is expected than we have so far, but also the satisfaction of the employer because of a more precise legal relationship with employees.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11515	The word has Minister Slobodan Lalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11516	Let me just say a few sentences, since we heard a little discussion here. When it comes to Trayala workers, October 14th and other businesses, I certainly talked to them, talked to them, and I'll talk to them, but I don't know that they can talk calmly to those who took part in bringing them into the state they're in today. I leave it to the conscience of the one who says it, and everyone has to be alone sometime, at least in front of the mirror. The second thing I was going to say, I have an irresistible impression some time, when I hear tears shed over the fate of Serbia's employment, that they're crocodile tears. Do you know when a crocodile cries - when he eats, when he grabs the victim and then God makes his tears go away? That's what a lot of people here still hold a victim in their jaws, but they weep over the fate of their victim. It's really a very crocodile scene. I think we should avoid crocodile tears in this congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11517	The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic, and let MP Meso Omerovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11518	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Minister of Biology keeps us a tract of crocodiles crying. Who fired those workers, Minister? Who was in power when those workers were fired? Anyway, let's get back to the subject. Here's another law that's thicker, a law that's been prescribed from somewhere, even showing errors in translation. Here's a law that will bring us closer to Europe. As the minister said yesterday, Serbia will be "European". Minister, I'm warning you to really appoint someone in the government who will pull a manual when we get to Europe, so we don't roll it up, so we can move her out of her way. Says the minister yesterday that this law is better than the last one. The last one was no good. And if something's a little better than what's wrong, that doesn't mean this is good. The last law left about 800,000 people out of work, no social, no pension, no existence. This one, as the minister announced a few days ago, will leave another 300,000 people behind. But the minister said, "We'll take care of it socially." About how that welfare will be, I'll talk to you later. Let me get back to the beginning. On October 2000, he hooked up with Serbia's tsunami and left the waste behind in the economy, all broken, all broken. The minister said yesterday, "We moved the slaughter one way." You pushed a lot, so it went that way to the employers. In other words, they devalued workers' rights maximum, and as it went on in those first days when you pushed the slaughter, I remember when Minister Djelic and two other ministers went to Kragujevac to tell Kragujevac workers that they had to push it to that side, so Djelic took off his coat, a jacket from behind, and the other two fled. None of the ministers went to Kragujevac anymore, but the flag workers went no more to their factories. Suddenly, 40,000 employees got a solution and became unemployed. He confessed to the minister yesterday in front of all of us that pushing a slaughter on one side was not good. The minister admits that they wanted to become more Catholics than the Pope, admits that the tendency costs, but does not say it costs only the poor and the workers. It didn't cost them, thank God, because in the meantime, from cars to leather furniture in the ministry, in cabinets, they settled down and subsidized. More than 800,000 people lost their jobs after 6 October, thanks to that law that preceded this one. What do the citizens have from yesterday's minister admitting that it was wrong before? To be clear, I'm not saying this because of the minister and I'm not talking about any part of the MPs. I am speaking for the citizens of Serbia, to remind them that from October 6th, to this day, in power there is no difference, only by the number of shoes. Did the minister, when he confessed yesterday to all his mistakes and mistakes by his predecessors, consider resigning as a way out of the crisis, at least as a moral act? From your apology, my dear minister, he does not live. The people need bread. It's easy for him, you don't have to apologize to him at all, but he needs bread to be provided. You said in public that this time 300,000 more workers will be out of work, on some TV show or newspaper, I don't remember exactly. You said yesterday that 380,000 more people, those who work on black, would be cut off on black, which means 380,000 more people will be left without existence. Don't do that. Working on black means bread for kids and a liter of milk. He says we'll take care of it socially. You'll take care of the ministers. You've taken care of a part of those who've gone to work, but not for two years at the most. A worker who is 45-46 years old, at the age of 48 or 50 years of age, so I wonder who he is from the employers who will hire a worker who has 50 years of life, regardless of his work experience. They'll receive young, professional ones. These people stay in the gap, and they're not retired, because they don't have years to retire, or they're in a working relationship, and they stay literally on the street. You've been turning Serbia into your lab since 6 October 2000. You're experimenting. Then it reminds me of when he, in his own time, advised the peasant to put a sick cow, my front legs in cold water, my back legs in cold water, and at the end of the day, he said, "The cow died," and the shame of dying, I had so many more beautiful ideas. Don't take any more of your ideas to enforce over Serbia. The Solidarity Fund, the social dialogue, are all, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, empty stories followed by the bellies of at least 400-500,000 more citizens of Serbia. Has anyone been employed since 6 October 2000? Did you start the economy? Is anyone besides those of your party members you've hired in all those agencies, which you've formed for every ministry and every law agency, besides them, has anyone else been employed in Serbia? There's no agency here, though, but there's a fund, and that means the same thing. Once again, the party line will be unproductive, and those who need to generate income, those from whom we should live, both us and you and me, will not work and will not work. The basis of this law is to hide past and future failed privatisations, to justify the great former and future layoffs. The law is inadmissible. You can apply it by force. No one will benefit from this law except for employers and besides staying for a few months in the ministerial chair. Says the contract between the employer and the employee. Everywhere, the employer pays a minimum price both to the state and to the employee. The unions are underdeveloped. I see the union gentlemen upstairs at the gallery, the unions in this country are underdeveloped. An employer shakes in Germany when the unions announce a strike. And the main struggle of our unions is to become representative. I read that another one the other day became representative because it has 300,000 approaches to that union. At least 10 people know who have been out of these unions these days, because unions can't protect workers, they don't have instruments, and there's no will. Finally, Article 104 continues to earn and negotiate. The coefficient must be determined either by job or by professional preparation. This is how this member of the law is abused. The union can't do anything about it. Technological surplus, Article 153 to Article 157. Article 158. - severance. One-quarter and one-third of what? It has to be said in the law -- three salaries, nine salaries, gross income, 15 gross incomes as severance. He can't - one-third of something. Furthermore, trainees are not regulated. I have to hurry because I'm cutting time, enough of my colleagues from the SRS to talk. Co-operation with the Employment Service is also unregulated, employers' obligations are also unregulated, workers' protection is missing, disabled, second and third categories are deleted. A union of what it is can't do anything to protect a worker. Therefore, Minister, withdraw this law, or withdraw the manual, for starters.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11519	I thank Mr. Markovic. The word has Minister Lalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11520	I want to comment on a few sentences. As I understand it, people here, as a rule, address the citizens of Serbia rather than the MPs, so I use that opportunity to remind the citizens of Serbia what this is really about. Since there will be more discussion about the labour law itself through individual amendments, and as far as I understand it, this is used here with another story, so I think it deserves a minimal comment. It is said here that in the past few years unemployment has arisen in Serbia, trying to prove it, imputes. It's an obvious lie. Secondly, what we found as a state of business is constantly spinning in 2000, let's take it as a cross-section. So, between 1989 and 2000, the social product was more than halved in Serbia, industrial production dropped by two-thirds. I'm not talking about the cause. I'm talking about the state of play. I don't want to go into sanctions policy. What's this about? Economy, jobs are lost in this period, and what we are trying to do now, I am sure that we will succeed, restore Serbia's economy and open up jobs in the perspective, where people will have salaries, on which a colleague from the Radical Party spoke yesterday, of decent wages. There must be a job where it produces productivity in order to have that salary, this government does, and I'm sure every other democratic government in Serbia will work. We simply cannot forget, we should not forget, when and how jobs are lost in Serbia. And why shouldn't we forget? Not for some political rematch, but for that to never happen again. Such a situation in which in 10 years our country will go so far back it should never happen again, and then there would be no more opportunity to keep going over and over again, because I've been watching and listening again, I have to say, crocodile tears over my own victim, which still doesn't drop out of her jaw, to somehow convince her to stay calm in those jaws. You see, Serbia's employment, with its trade unions, whatever we think of them, will surely, along with Serbia's democratic authority, find the most effective way for Serbia, without those brakes being put on, to enter Europe. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11521	The word is made by MP Momir Markovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11522	Minister, just three words. The people haven't had bread since 2000. They've freed all your stories and crocodile tears and everything else. You left a million and a half jobless workers, they had a social, they had a pension, they had a church like that at a time when Serbia was under the most severe sanctions ever imposed by a country. When you came to power, there were 900,000 people left without bread, and that's what this is about. The fact that you're sweet-talking, stop that.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11523	The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11524	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, for setting up the socio-economic mile yesterday, which was talked about in his exposé yesterday by Minister Lalovic, for us from the SDP, this bill is the basis. It is one of the most important system laws to be passed and I am convinced that in the day of voting we will vote for such a draft labour law. All that is new in the bill is an improvement in the current Labour Act. The draft labour law sets out differently the rights and obligations of employers and employees by fully adapting them to international standards without violating the reform character of this law. The proposal for a new law is better both formally and materially, because it is more precise than the applicable law. It is not good when further interpretation is required for the law to be adopted in the procedure of its application and implementation. This is, above all, not good for the economy, nor for the employers, because any vague provision in the law creates a problem and requires that in the competent ministry, in this case it is the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, writing demands and seeking opinions on the disputed provisions of the law, and then waiting for answers, which sometimes do not arrive for months. Many of the questions addressed to the Ministry about what the law really says just means that the law is not good, and therefore I believe that the legislator, therefore, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Ministry, must make sure that the law is both linguistically and stylishly clean and that it contains clear legal norms and, as the legislator, it seems to me that a large number of amendments have worked in this case. In public opinion has been made that certain provisions of this law return to self-government. Some may have thought of the possibility of employee participation in profits, as well as of greater importance given to the collective contract institute, but I think the advocates of such difficulties are wrong and they are wrong. Self-government, to remind ourselves, was worth repeating once again, there was an inefficient system of decision-making of incompetent people and it is clear to everyone today that self-government is incompatible with market attraction, with private property and a healthy economy that implies making profits and tends to be full-time. The regulation of legal procedures to achieve these objectives for the exercise of rights and duties in the field of labour legislation, dear fellow Members, is not self-government. The reorganisation of businesses and the reorganisation of enterprises must take place under clear conditions. Negotiations to conclude collective agreements, as prescribed by this bill, are not self-government, because the talks, you will agree, among people, and negotiations, are democratic fluids. The decision of only one man is never good, especially in the system when the property is not yet privatized and when the person who decides on the further fate of the employees is not even the owner of that property. If working conditions do not negotiate, then it is more like the time of the end of the 19th century, at the time of liberal capitalism and the initial accumulation of capital, and anyone who knows today relations between employers and workers in the West knows that there is a long-standing negotiation there and that forms of liberal capitalism have long been abandoned. Why would employees be deprived of the possibility to enter into agreements with the employer on participation in the profit achieved, if they want to do so and if each of them finds their own interests, and that is one normal, I would also say a stimulating provision. Therefore, the stated objectives, which are rapid privatisation and reorganisation of the business, must be achieved in legal procedures and with clear rules, but with the maximum humanisation of work and the security of all rights guaranteed by the IOR's European conventions and recommendations to employees everywhere in the world. We in the Social Democratic Party are convinced that all of this bill provides and therefore I propose and I think that MPs in the voting day will vote for this text of the labour law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11525	The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Djordjevic, and for discussion, let MP Zarko Obradovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11526	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft labour law is one of the most important legislative proposals submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption. The law on work that is in force has been passed by the former DS regime, which is one of the worst and most devastating laws that have turned the Serbian economy black. This law abolished all employees' rights in a non-democratic way. The adoption of labour law by the assembly majority, led by DS and its satellites, has been achieved by stealing votes in this National Assembly, and this should be underlined. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been violated. By applying the Labour Law, which was passed by the former DS government, 100,000 Serbian citizens have been disproved and humiliated. Some senior DS officials called and said that the Serbian economy was sick and that it was only the goal of entering the European Union, and the price of several hundred thousand unemployed people who had lost their jobs was not important. In the event of the law's adoption, the nature of the former DS regime's government has been shown. With that in mind, the SRS expected the government of the Republic of Serbia to make a legal proposal in this area to regulate this matter and to correct and protect the rights of employees and citizens of Serbia. We agree with the minister that there are no new jobs if there is no growth in social product. The SRS is Serbia's first and primary goal of living better. The conditions for investing in the Serbian economy cannot be met if Serbia does not develop in a positive atmosphere, and it will not develop if it continues with the practice of passing laws that will not fully protect employees' rights. This bill will not change the nature of the previous law. The SRS has a number of objections to the draft labour law. The SRS Parliament Club has submitted more than 40 amendments to the draft labour law. The SRS parliamentary group's amendment aims at the first protection of the rights of employees and citizens of Serbia in full, not in part. The SRS therefore believes that first it is necessary to protect the rights of employees and only then to regulate legislation under the legislation of European legislation. How important it is to harmonise the labour law, taking into account the European Union's recommendations, is more important, will be agreed by the National Assembly, the protection of employees' rights. Therefore, in order to justify the adoption of this law, the first rights of employees of Serbian citizens must be the first, and then the alignment with EU legislation. First, it means workers' rights and second alignment with European legislation. I'll give you a few basic members we can't agree on. The fact is that there are a number of amendments submitted not only by the SRS parliamentary group, but the essence of this bill is that it should fully regulate employees' rights. This bill is not good and we believe that this bill had to fully regulate employees' rights. For example. in Article 24. We have one objection to the bill, where in paragraph 3 it is defined that the rules are laid down by the Director. The Systematisation Regulation is the most important act in the company, which regulates the most sensitive issues for workers, resulting in surpluses and job creations, frequent abuses in the opening of unnecessary sectors for the employment of persons close to the director, and therefore is unacceptable to be brought by the Director because this opens up the possibility of abuse. Besides, this is a general act that needs to be passed by the board of directors. Therefore, the regulation should be adopted by the Management Board or by the Authority established by the Statute, and that is only acceptable and should be contained in the final version of this bill. You did not propose this to the National Assembly in this Article 24. In Article 69. The bill, also, which defines the minimum length of the 18 working days vacation, we have the objection, since the ministry insists on respecting European legislation, as you are constantly calling for these rules, European conventions and recommendations from the European Union, then the minimum length of annual holidays would have to be 20 working days, as prescribed in the European legislation and the IOR conventions. You can't say that there isn't. If you are referring to regulation of our law on working with European legislation, then you must keep this in mind and on the basis of everything, I must tell you that in particular we will be going out for this speaker and we will talk about every amendment, because this is a very important law and this law, in our opinion, is not good. The SRS will vote against this bill if you do not accept the amendments we have submitted to the National Assembly. We have tried amendments to protect the rights of employees and citizens of Serbia. That's the basic reason why this law should be passed. The role of the Republika Srpska Assembly is to pass quality laws. Serbian citizens want to live better, Serbian citizens should live better. So let the Government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by the Democratic Party of Serbia, with coalition parties in this parliament, take care of citizens. May the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic, mean the executive power, let them share the fate of their people without being the case as it has been. So we will not vote in favour of this draft labour law that you have proposed to the National Assembly because we consider, above all, that this bill did not solve the basic problem of protecting the basic rights of employees. This is the essence that should have been the proposal for this labour law and the SRS would not agree. We will vote against the bill because we believe it threatens employees' rights. I'm sorry the minister isn't here, that he's out of the O.R. Yesterday, he spoke of the growth of the business product, talking about the positive effect of making a positive atmosphere to invest in the Serbian economy. A positive atmosphere will not be created if Serbian citizens have to suffer such laws as are at their expense. So the National Assembly must pass quality laws. That is why we are elected by the citizens of Serbia and the SRS in its programme has a fundamental objective of protecting the interests of workers and the interests of employees in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11527	The minister announced, went to the government's session. He'll be back as soon as the government's session is over. The word is by MP Zarko Obradovic, and for discussion to prepare MP Branislav Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11528	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, for the SPS debate on the draft labour law is also an opportunity to remind citizens of the Republic of Serbia that three years ago a bad law was passed in this respected home in a completely irregular way. We were then as MPs, as well as the whole of Serbia, deceived by the resolute minister by saying that the law at the time was in line with the International Labour Organisation, and we were all witnesses that the law was declared in one irregular way. It cannot be forgotten that the law was passed by the then-major majority by stealing from the vote, by voting from Thessaloniki at the time by the MP of the Democratic Party. I mention this very knowingly and responsibly, because we have been witnessing over the past years that we are constantly trying to place a story on democratic forces and democratic values, and then it is up to these democratic forces, democratic values and the Democratic Party to carry with them the burden of what they have done to Serbia, and one such example is the Thessaloniki vote. There were later votings from Turkey, from Bodrum, some other things, but it is part of the mark of the work of democratic forces. In any case, we had and we still have one bad law, bad for employees, which is far from what employees need, but far from what the International Labour Organisation recommends to be an integral part of the legislation that regulates the rights and obligations of employees. The law is far from those 90s solutions and for the simple reason why it abolished the numerous rights established by the 1997 Labour Relations Act. That is when the existing law reduced the cash compensation for unemployment, severance, sick leave, paid leave, vacations and all that was in the interest and the benefit of the employees. The following rights have been abolished: solidarity aid, jubilee awards, maternity leave for the third child, regression, warm meal etc. They're facts and they can't be ignored. After all, it's something that every employee can feel over their backs. I mentioned this existing law for reasons to be said, speaking about the proposal for a new law in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that it represents in certain parts significant improvements, one step forward regarding the rights and obligations of employees, to improve their overall status, but is essentially still far from those of the 1990s, which some like to criticise. The facts are that the bill contains certain improvements, but there are also those things that have not yet been solved in the best possible way. When it comes to the crucial thing in this law, which we believe should have been solved in a better way, it is the inability to apply a collective contract directly to all employers. Because, let's remind, the application of the general and special collective contract under the bill only binds those employers who were members of the employers' association at the time of the conclusion of the contract. This matter is regulated by Article 255. The draft law and the essence is that only those employers, and therefore employees, will be subject to a collective contract in companies associated with the Union of employers. According to the data we possess, only 20-30% of employers in Serbia are joined in the Union, which, according to this legal solution, achieves the possibility of negotiating and closing a collective contract. This means that a huge number of employees, several hundred thousand, are left aside, employees in the public sector will not be included, will not, in addition to the law, be part of a collective contract and will not be subject to their rights and obligations and their status will be regulated through a collective agreement. We think this is a bad solution, not for the benefit of most employees. We have proposed an amendment to this member of the law, but we believe that a far better solution would be that collective agreements apply to all employees, so that the minister, on the basis of the opinion of the socio-economic council of the Government of Serbia, has the right to certain branches, certain subgroups within what is called the economy of Serbia, free from paying certain obligations, or what constitutes an integral part of collective agreements, because logical possibilities are not the same, nor is the position of all employees the same. We think it's a huge lack of this law and we think it would be an interest for employees to have collective agreements in place for everyone, and then the minister, based on the opinion of the Economic and Social Council, can take some other steps. I think that solution would be better and for employees it would be more celery, but that's something that's still not only to be discussed, but it can also be adopted a certain amendment. I think it's bad for us, the SPS members and the parliamentary group, the solution from Article 158 of the law, which speaks of the cancellation of the labour contract by the employer, because the obligation to pay the severance payment is foreseen. The promoter, in our opinion, has proposed here very incorrect solutions, because according to these solutions, it is possible that someone who is 11 years of employment has less severance than someone who has 10 years of employment with the same employer, which we consider to be quite illogical, considering that the only criterion of determining the amount of the severance workload is. We have one paradoxical situation, if anyone works, changes the employer, that he'll be in a position to get less severance than he who works at the same time, or shorter time with the same employer. We have proposed better solutions to the amendment, which so far the government has not accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11529	Mr. Obradovic, you have three minutes left, and you have Mr. Baralic's report. All right, let me help.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11530	Thank you, Chairman. I'm going to continue this statement on the law. We think that a bad solution to this law is that the government is not involved in the conclusion of a general collective agreement, but only a representative union and an employers' association. I'm going to leave aside the question of who the representative union is and who all the employers' associations are, because it would require a long story, since we see that they've been racing in public these past days to prove their representativeness, both of them, although I think at least around the union that it's an indisputable thing, about the Independent Union, but that's another story. It is seen that this solution implies and foresees the role of the government in a indirect way through the minister's response, but I don't think that this solution is good to the extent that it would weigh, and to say socially, that the government is involved in the conclusion of the general collective agreement, because ministers are changing. We had some experience from the previous period that ministers, who spoke on behalf of workers or represented workers, were at least formally people or those who had made the worst solutions for employees. We think that the bad side of this law is also something that has not better regulated the issue of cancellation, because the employer's resignation is practically possible, the old solutions have been practically retained. It is true that the proposer has provided for a warning and a cancellation by the employer, and an opinion by the union, but all of this in the opinion of the SPS parliamentary group is not sufficient protection for the employee. The SPS has also proposed an amendment to this member of the law, which provides for the existence of a commission i.e. the authorities which will determine whether the reasons for the employer's resignation have occurred because of the results of the work and incompetence of the employee, which has not been accepted so far. We also think that they are not good nor solutions related to the area of maternity and leave for child care, because they are not in line with at least the ministry's verbal statements to encourage the policy of restoring the population. Few people know that our country, according to the population structure, is one of the 10 oldest in the world, but that's another topic we'll talk about next time. There's a lot of things that this existing bill still hasn't solved in the best possible way. The truth is, it must be said that it contains a lot of solutions that are far better than the current Labour Act, and that is something that is good and perhaps represents a small step, of course for employees very important, because the existing law is catastrophic, but I think there is also a lot of empty walking, the inability to improve these solutions. The SPS parliamentary group has submitted about 30 amendments to this bill. Some are accepted, some are not accepted yet. We think it would be good, not because of the law, but because of the employees, because the Labour Act is for all employees what determines practically their position, status, reception, etc. We think it would be a good idea for the promoter to look at some other SPS amendments and some other proposed solutions, and we think there is still time, opportunities, and above all the need for these amendments to be accepted so that workers, those employees, are satisfied.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11531	The word has been given by MP Branislav Stevanovic, and let the MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11532	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, many times we MPs of the SRS insisted on adopting this labour law, as well as the privatisation law. On one occasion, I said in December that it was necessary to amend the Labour Act. The DS MP, Mr Stanimirovic, said the following - the change of the Labour Act would drive out foreign partners who decided to invest in our economy, and in this way we would endanger further development of our economy, which means, according to DS theory, we need our factories, which our fathers and grandfathers have built by voluntary work, now to give to foreign investors, so that they can develop their economy, their economy and, by the way, give them both a low-priced and cheap workforce, so that they are practically bosses, and we are their lifelong servants. What I'm saying is that the unions in the coming period will also play an extremely important role, and what our current representative unions are like, they haven't helped solve any cases so far. First of all, Mr. Smiljanic, Canak and others, and I would like to take this opportunity to appeal to workers' unions throughout Serbia to launch an initiative to change such, because usually such people who last a little longer, they get very close with employers and no longer think about workers and working class. As for this draft labour law and how much better it was than the previous one, because it was catastrophic, it reminded us more of feudalism than capitalism. I would not like to comment on the law that was passed in 2001, and this same DOS, which the Kolubara workers brought to power, they returned to them by dissuading workers and employers. The directors of the company. When it comes to workers who are employed by our private entrepreneurs, these newly-compromised capitalists, it must be said that they are very disbursed and that a large number is not registered at the Bureau of Social and Pensions, and they also have miserable salaries, which is best shown by the fact that we go through our shops and catering facilities where people are maximumly chicanned. When it comes to obligations and rights of directors, it must be recognised that directors are often in agreement with trade unions, so that workers are not protected and that workers should choose honest and honest people who will represent their interests and where directors will not interfere in any possible business in enterprises. When it comes to discrimination in employment, I'd like to tell you, gentlemen of the ministry, to record it. There's an interesting thing, because my father worked in Austria and I know their way of employment, although this law doesn't regulate it, but in some future law on employment should think, because a worker who's interested in work, he gives up his papers, address, phone, and that's how all the stories end with us. However, in Austria, gentlemen, they make contact with the employment room and call the phone and mail delivery, and the workers who receive the offer have contact, and either for employment, have contact with the city and the municipality, and call the interested. Our old practice is long-term, it's known, we're employed party, relatively, and I'm not listing any other ways of hiring us. When it comes to the participation of an employee, Article 14, in profit in the achieved business year, in the private sector we have to say that it's just a theory, it's on paper and it's never going to come back to life, and we're aware of that. However, I will set an example from the electricity industry, where we have practice for years, and when a business surplus is achieved and the plan is transferred annually, the directors and his close associates receive two or three excess salaries, and workers have never had a chance to reach that dinar. Article 53, and when it comes to overtime, it says here that a worker can only work four hours overtime, and that's perfectly normal, because who's exposed to physical activity is normal that he can't work more than 12 hours. However, there are facilities, especially in the electricity sector, and where I am employed, where there is more duty than active work. Therefore, this member must suffer a certain change. One of our painful things is the excess of employees, which has since 2000, so we refer to the intense story, and the main goal of this story about the excess worker is to make it happen with workers, and that they can't organize themselves, and they can't possibly act in power and change the government, so they are from 2000 to today in one fear, daily fear going to work and thinking about whether that day they will be declared a technological surplus or in some other way, which all powers have an employer or director in a state enterprise, to be fired. When it comes to the restructuring of these large enterprises, such as EPS, NIS, railways, there will be trade unions and how important the role will play, and of course, if you accept our many amendments, there are over 40, there will be over 40, and in this way unions, applying this law that will be passed, and how they will be able to protect workers' rights. When it comes to firing here, Article 179 has point 1) and point 7) which cannot be compared to the principle of dismissal. Point 1) says there is no necessary knowledge and ability. So, if the worker has been in the workplace for a long time, it's impossible that he doesn't have any professional skills. He can be physically incompetent, which means disabled, and then even more protection should be given to both unions and employers. Point 7) says if it refuses to close an annex contract. I can give you an example from "The Colubare," where one part of the EPS in this restructuring is being singled out, and there, practically, in "The Colubary," no construction worker wanted to sign the contract annex, because it's clearly seen that it's a clean hoax and a working-class scam. Therefore, such workers cannot be fired. When it comes to compensation for damages, which is referred to by Article 163, it is necessary to be honest and to say that there are really in some companies where really workers are indifference to some major malice, and so far it has not been a practice, and that there are penalties. It is necessary to be zealous and to say that there is a lot to be said, and as far as discipline is concerned in the workplace itself, and this law to speak. In the end, since I am limited by the time of the parliamentary group, let me say that we, the Serbian radicals...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11533	You have plenty of time, but you take care of your colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11534	... If we had these huge donations as Democrats, we would certainly have invested much more in the economy and much less blended into private pockets, as did Tadic's Democratic Party, which builds butics, drives luxury cars, real villas, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11535	As I can tell, Parliamentarian Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic is not in the O.R., so I give the word to MP Sreti Peric. Happy Peric quits. Let's move on, the word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Homan, and let the People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11536	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I read this labour law carefully, and at first I'd look back at a few things that caught my eye and were good or less good. First, a small change that is extremely significant, which is part of the work relationship, where the employer's obligation to provide the employee with a photocopy of the application to compulsory social security. It's a significant thing, given that then employees can be sure that social security is actually reported. The next thing, which is one of the most important changes in this law, which is the establishment of a solidarity fund, which guarantees the payment of claims to employees who were working on the day of the bankruptcy procedure with the employer and the revenues of the fund are funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, so that the fund always has enough income to provide such workers. In the case of employee rights and the change of employer, it should also be noted that the employer is obliged to apply the general act of the employer's employer, one year from the change of employer. It's a kind of guarantee and security for employees what will happen when they change their employer. When it comes to the work where excess employees are talked about, it is also an obligation for the employer, where he is obliged to adopt a programme to resolve surplus employees and to deliver the proposal to the representative union and the republican employment organisation. It's another kind of protection and security of employees' rights, and as we can see, it goes through the entire law. However, in specific provisions, this is in the part of Articles 196 to 203, where contracts and the performance of temporary and occasional transactions are discussed. It is said that the employer can conclude these contracts with an unemployed person, an employee who works part-time, but also an old-age pensioner. I am not sure that in the parallel legislation of the European Union, with which this law is harmonised, there is such a possibility that an old-age pensioner may conclude a contract on the performance of temporary and occasional jobs. There is the possibility of major abuses, as well as of student cooperatives, which have not suffered any changes, and we know that there have been a lot of abuses, where they have been employed through student cooperatives, and faces have not been reported, and in fact some other persons have worked. There were supposed to be some changes, in my opinion. As far as employees and employers are concerned, these associations of employers and trade unions, I would just say briefly that these percentages, 15% of employees, to be a representative union or representative association of employers, and these 10%, I think that this percentage should be higher, because this is a depreciation when you have those small percentages. It is likely that there will be a lot of representative trade unions and employers' associations, which may prove to be bad. That would be brief on some concrete solutions to this law. As can be seen, the Labour Act has suffered the biggest changes in the area of protection of employees' rights. This can be understood and explained by the fact that our country is in transition, which means that attention should be paid to protecting employees' rights. However, as the minister said yesterday, let the border not be crossed and too much must not go to one side, because the country needs investments, it is necessary to enter foreign capital that will trigger the economy. The capital goes where the easiest and fastest can fertilize, not where it can serve as a social service to our businesses, with surplus employees and other major problems our businesses have. How balanced this law is, how much and how it's going to affect the development of economy and investment, it's going to show time, and I'm afraid that's what we don't really have. Therefore, we can only hope that this law is exactly what we needed and that it will positively reflect our opportunities. The most satisfying way to pass this law should be to have employees, because their rights are rounded up in a comprehensive and complete way, perhaps a little bit and too much. It should also be said that all those who are dissatisfied today should give this law a chance. I don't think there's any reason for all sorts of pressures and protests right now and that they've been announcing it for months in advance. No one can convince me that the union manager, who is driving around Serbia in a blinded Mercedes, has the top priority of his employees' interests. Or what we read yesterday in the paper, that even Mr. Karic threatens to protest workers. Is there any greater absurdity? In the end, I would like to say that for the interests of the employees of this law, she has shown serious interest in the very government of Serbia. Therefore, this labour law, with all its inadequacies, will support the G17 plus and give it a chance. In the end, there's just one thing: it doesn't leave the law of people without a job, nor does it have a law to give a job. If he doesn't know that, he better not be involved in politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11537	The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica has the word, and let the MP Miroslav Petkovic be prepared for discussion, and after a long time the MP Svilanovic also joined us.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11538	Honorable MPs, the labour law regulates the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the working relationship, i.e. work-based relationships are arranged. The rights, obligations and responsibilities of the employment relationship shall also be governed by a collective contract, a labour rule and a labour contract. Given that these rights are not regulated in an adequate manner, the SRS has submitted a number of amendments to the draft labour law, with the intention to better regulate this extremely important matter of working relations. We're in favour of protecting an employed woman, so we suggested that an employed woman has the right to maternity leave until the age of two of a child's life for a third child. This protects motherhood, increases the birth rate, i.e. People are stimulated to increase the birth rate, because if we don't stimulate the birth rate, we are threatened by the white plague and the disappearance of the people. The draft labour law fails to protect employees, and above all disabled workers, as well as employees of armed actions after the 1990s, our heroes, so the SRS believes that employees of disabled workers and fighters should be protected maximumly. Serbian radicals suggest that these individuals cannot stop working because of a technological surplus, until they are entitled to pension. The SRS argues that employees should also be able to compensate for the costs of food during work, the costs of the regress, the fees for past work, as this is abandoned by the proposal for this law. The SRS is seeking to increase the severances due to the retirement staff leaving, with three, as proposed in this bill, to five minimum earnings, as employees earned it by their long-term work. We think they belong to adequate and adequate severance. As a special type of protection of persons with disabilities, as well as in order to prevent disability, it is necessary to provide for a law on the work of the right to provide the necessary means to prevent disability, in order to reduce the causes of disability. The SRS considers it necessary to increase the amount of cash compensation due to temporary prevention or sick leave, so it proposed an increase to 80% of the average earnings in the previous three months through the amendments. The SRS advocates and proposes an increase in earnings employed during the holidays, during work nights and overtime, by 150%, unlike the bill, which provides for far fewer percentages. The draft labour law does not specify a minimum or maximum duration of the annual leave. So, it was done so-called. deregulation of relationships, which is unacceptable. We believe that this must be established by law, so the SRS has proposed a minimum and maximum duration of annual leave through its amendments. The SRS advocates special protection for people working at night, so we propose that the employer, when instituting nighttime work, be obliged to request the opinion of the competent ministry. We believe that under the age of 18, pregnant and preschool child parents cannot redistribute their working hours, and all for the protection of this particular category of employees. The SRS advocates an increase in the employee's fee due to a technological surplus, so we believe that the compensation cannot be lower than one-third of the employee's salary for each completed year of work in a working relationship. Finally, I hope that you will adopt amendments to the SRS and thus correct such a bad law, because the SRS proposals are the best and represent the voices of the people and voices of reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11539	The People's Messenger Miroslav Petkovic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people prepare Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11540	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the current Labour Act came into force in December 2001 and in the past three years it has certainly been one of the laws that has been highly disputed and to which a large number of objections have been made. The need to introduce some new institutes and make certain that some institutes are more precise and detailed in order to achieve a new draft labour law. This proposal for a law has carried out harmonisation with European Union legislation and active co-operation has been achieved with the International Labour Organisation for its adoption. The rights and obligations laid down in this proposal for a law shall be governed by a collective contract, a labour contract and a regulation, where provided for by the law. Tax cases are listed when doing so. The bill defines the terms of employees, employers, employers' associations and trade unions, quite precisely. This law provides for a large number of newspapers and the DSS will certainly, because of these newspapers, support this bill. One of them is the introduction of a ban on direct and indirect discrimination. The law provides for a ban on conditioning the establishment of a working relationship by prior giving a declaration of termination of the labour contract. Also, one newspaper is scheduled for trial work, which extends from three to six months. The problem of unreported workers provides for the bill to be resolved by providing for the obligation to provide a social security application to the worker within 15 days of the start of a working relationship. This avoids certain problems that have been shown in practice in the previous three years, that people who have been declared a technological surplus, when they come to the National Employment Service to exercise their right to cash compensation, come with a work book that has been regularly completed, where the date of termination of the employment relationship has been entered, certified by the employer’s seal, and when the listing is taken out in the Pension Fund, we see that it has not been registered at all on pension-inhabited insurance or in a much shorter period than it has spent at its workplace. A significant newspaper is also provided for by trainees, in the sense that the trainee to whom the internship is interrupted before the end of one year, when he continues to do business with another employer, the course of the traineeship continues. The paper is also provided for by a director who can establish a working relationship by concluding a work contract either on a fixed or indefinite basis. The law, of course, introduces a significant newspaper, which is the right and obligation of the employee to constantly perfect himself and to enrich his knowledge, thus adapting to the new work processes and obligations that await him. The change also applies to the duration of the vacation. Now the minimum duration of the vacation is 20 days. It is also used in two parts, providing that the first part of the vacation is used for three working weeks. In the area of the protection of employees, in addition to the protection of employees under 18 and pregnant women, a new provision relating to the protection of the personal data of the employee is provided. The establishment of a solidarity fund is also foreseen. We heard in some discussions that it might not be necessary. It should certainly be noted that 300 million dinars have been allocated in the Republic of Serbia's budget for the functioning of this Solidarity Fund. In this way, payment of obligations to workers who were employed on the day of bankruptcy is guaranteed. What should be pointed out is that the law provides for the employer's obligation to adopt a programme to resolve surplus employees, precise criteria for determining the surplus, the means to resolve their socio-economic position, as well as the time limit in which the labour contract will be cancelled. The proposal for this programme shall be submitted to the trade unions and the National Employment Service. I'm taking this opportunity to ask Ministry representatives to help people in the National Employment Service. It really happens that when large systems declare a technological surplus, it's really a large number of people, that they have to do their jobs in a short time, in order to cut the deadline in which these people will exercise their right to cash compensation, and it's really physically impossible to carry out all these activities in a very short period of time. When it comes to temporary and occasional affairs, one newspaper is also foreseen. They are being cut to 120 working days, and the previous law provided for 180 days. What is significant is that the employer can pay the employee premium for voluntary, additional pension insurance, collective insurance against the consequences of accidents and for serious illnesses and surgical interventions. I think the amendment accepted by the Ministry and the Government is very important and that workers will exercise significant rights to this amendment. Finally, I would like to stress the great effort of the MPs, given the large number of amendments that have been submitted, and I would also like to commend the minister and the government, who has accepted a significant number of amendments that amend the proposed legislative text, and I do not think that some of the discussions that we could hear from this pay phone, which suggest a return to self-government in Serbia, are really standing. I think the main problem is that those who should be responsible for Serbia's current situation most object to this law. As DSS MPs, I call on you to support the draft labour law, as one of the most significant legislative proposals in the assembly's assembly, and to allow much better functioning and economy and resolving of the issues of employees in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11541	I thank Mr. Petkovic. The word of the Messenger of the people is Radisa Ilic; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Mark Krstin. Radisa Ilic is not here, let Marko Krstin be prepared, then Zoran Antić. Even Zoran Antic isn't here. If Zoran Antic is not here, then Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11542	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are in the process of adopting a new labour law, which largely represents a new and better protection of workers' rights, which was, after all, a pledge to G17 plus, and this is now being achieved by the adoption of this law. The first thing I can say, which is a good feature or line of this law, is that one balance is being established, or balances the relationship between labour and capital, i.e. between employees and employers, which has been significantly violated by a law now in force, which has been significantly violated in favour of employers. Now that balance is being established, so we can say that we have one more balanced relationship between labour and capital. On the other hand, which is a very positive feature of this legal text that we have ahead of us, provides for better protection of workers' rights, especially at times that can be assessed as crisis times for each employee, which is - when the company is in bankruptcy, when changes in the employer’s rights, i.e. sales or purchases of enterprises, when a technological surplus occurs and when a worker or employee is properly treated by the employer, punished, deployed to an inadequate workplace, etc., means, when it comes to protecting his rights injured in the process of working relations. First, when it comes to bankruptcy, it is a newspaper introduced by the law into the legal system and what needs to be pointed out in particular, which is that the state forms a special state fund from which workers will be able to make their claims, which they lose when their company goes bankrupt. The Fund is addressed directly by workers, and the fund is allocated from the budget, thereby protecting workers' rights in a special way. Also, protection of workers' rights has been achieved in changing employers. So that status that the worker had with the former employer also retains in the new employer for at least a year. The new employer cannot make changes in legal acts that regulate workers' rights for the year. Every change goes with a union employee's notice and consultation. Especially interesting are the changes that this law makes in dealing with technological surpluses, which also affects workers, which is what we heard the debate of fellow MPs here. The Technological Excess Programme is binding, compared to the current solution, in 90 percent of the cases it is mandatory, it has mandatory elements. These are criteria, employment measures, resources to address the socio-economic situation of employees, etc. The programme must be adopted and delivered to the Republic of the Employment Fund and to the representative union. The Republic Fund has the right to make objections, and the union has the right to give its opinion. It is particularly important that the employer is obliged to take into account the proposals of the Employment and Trade Union Fund. Especially as I would like to point out, there is a much better procedure for protecting individual workers' rights. The institution of the arbitration panel shall be introduced. I would like to point out that we have passed the Law on the Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes, the time for which the arbitration officer is due to make a decision for 10 days, and during the duration of the dispute, the worker is at rest in a working relationship, his working relationship does not stop. It is also very important that so far the deadline for addressing a dissatisfied employee has been 15 days. The deadline is justifiably extended to 90 days, which makes it easier for a worker to protect his rights. I'd like to point out that he has six months left for the court to settle his case by the workers. However, I would also like to say that I do not know the case that, in the application of the law in force now, the court has acted within six months, and that it has made a decision within six months of bringing the action to justice. These procedures take a very long time, and I am almost certain that this deadline will not go better either, so I would suggest that the legislator, i.e. the processor or the legislator, resolve this problem in a different way. The problem is easily solved so that if the court does not resolve within the time limit prescribed by the law, the state assumes the obligation to compensate for the damage suffered by the worker because the court has resolved beyond the legal deadline. We are very much referring here to European law, to European Union law, to directives, to recommendations. I will mention one of the acts of the European Union towards which we do not call upon here, unless the state can resolve the issues in question through its authorities for three years, due to the compensation of the person who initiated the procedure. I would very much like the proposings to install such a provision into the law, so unless a six-month deadline is respected to resolve the right of the employee, the state to take the obligation to compensate for damages and thus to challenge and replace that judge who has tried beyond the legal deadline. This way, unfortunately, we'll have one six-month deadline that won't be applicable again. I would add the following: the law has certain legal and technical shortcomings, and I would just point that out, and I think we could put this to the credit of our Legislative Secretariat. In the text of the law, Articles 32, 63, 177 and 185 mention the words written consent, written form, written form, written form, written form, and in Serbian language there is a word written form, written form, and "literate" corresponds to "unwritten". Therefore, it should be written - in writing, in writing. It's a Serbian language termology, and it could be corrected, and I think the legislators should avoid these incorrect markings. Furthermore, I want to repeat this once again, I have already talked about it in the law that was before this on the agenda, when we are referring to the directives, because they are not part of our internal right so far, I would ask that when we take them as a framework, MPs really get those directives to know what it is, and there is no obstacle to the text of the directive being attached to the text of the law and then to know what it really says in the directive. I believe that the law has entered a little bit more into the fermentation of criminal provisions, and I think 34 criminal provisions, with a minimum penalty of 600,000 and a maximum of 1,000 dinars, are exaggerated and dragonous. I believe that, on the one hand, this can discourage offenders, or employers, from acting contrary to the law, but it can lead to more serious consequences for someone's work if a certain standard is determined and I think it should compare the level of punishment for the opportunities of the economy in Serbia. I think this is beyond the general maximum fine prescribed by another law and that it needs to be brought into line with that. Also, I believe that there are certain shortcomings in certain provisions in the law, we have made amendments and I believe that by accepting the amendments, we can remove the shortcomings that the law has. I think the law should be voted on. G17 supports this concept of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11543	As I understand it, Zoran Antić is not here, the word has the MP Zoran Krasic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Heliana Dragojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11544	We will use this principle debate to assist MPs in the definition of amendments to the SRS, since after this discussion, almost all the speeches that have been heard from this speaker have been made quite clear that this bill is practically proving that even worse, there must be no worse. The quality of this bill compared to the existing law is probably just measured by the quality of the paper. It is important that all MPs know that there must be three sides in the field of labour relations. In this bill of law, we hear of two sides and here we hear of some clumsy that's slaughtered by the employer towards the employees and vice versa, and the state's supposed to be not concerned. If the state believes that the only point in which it should be asked is when labour inspection relations are at stake, then the government is wrongly experiencing the state and its powers. I wish we'd been given back the bill like that law that was in 1996, and as far as these social partners are concerned, something that was a long time ago. Because basically, what you can negotiate and negotiate and what's the subject of a collective contract, that's primarily the price of work, just the price of work. All the other areas, all the other issues, all that can be called rights and obligations from working relationships is the matter of these clear legal provisions that have no guesses. No matter where he works, he has to be equal in terms of rights and obligations, and that's why he exists and there has to be a law on working relationships. They can't trade unions and employees negotiate a level of protection at work, they can't negotiate whether it's a vacation or not, whether it's a night job or not. They can't negotiate that. These must be clear imperial norms that bind both sides. So, the only area that can be negotiated is the price of work. The state can't be a silent observer, and for what? In all ILO conventions, there are three mandatory participants, when it comes to labour rights. So, the government must, as an executive government representing the state, it must be involved in these negotiations, to be a signator of the general collective agreement, the must, cannot be avoided. There are at least two reasons for that. The first reason, because the state is a nominal employer, and perhaps the largest number of employees in the Republic of Serbia, which directly, indirectly. Directly, employees of the state administration, indirectly through public enterprises at all levels. Another reason, by signing a general collective agreement defining the price of work, the government undertakes to run an economic policy of a state that will not devalue what is agreed and as regards the social situation of the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You see now what this government is like, it doesn't want to sign, it doesn't want to be a negotiator, and why? He's trying to tell us he's not an employer, and he's an employer, and he's trying to convince us that he has no influence on economic policy, and he's creating economic policy and he's implementing it. It's a coward's egg that's being replaced by this law. This isn't the first time, and in 2001, they were doing it skillfully. If there is no government, then everything is pointless, social dialogue, socio-economic advice or what we brought a few months ago, a miracle of the law, and that's resolving work dispute peacefully. So this government tells us, we're not interested in work and working relationships, and that's the message we're hearing from this bill. Furthermore, on the side of employers, so-called organised employers, we have Serbia's Chamber of Commerce, but it does not qualify to be a participant in the dialogue, and why? She is not on the principles of volunteering, but on the principles of obligation. The legal person involved in economic activity does not wonder whether he will be a member of the Chamber of Commerce or not, must, must, must be charged that contribution, so that Milosavljevic and the company that escaped from the previous government could be arrested. I guess they're issuing some other confirmation as an official document, which the state has to confiscate as an emergency jurisdiction. We have another industrialist making impulses. In all countries there is an impulse, and here we have an industrialist. The man's got money, the ex-katanji, he's not doing well with the locks, that's your coalition partner, you're throwing, if you're not informed. When you gave him back that extra-profit money, you took the interest, you're tied to that knot. He tied many into a knot, bought academics, bought many institutions, because the impulse industry is extremely profitable, so profitable that children can issue CDs and everyone has to buy. Well, he bought her, too, and there was something he peed on, but good. He's not exactly a successful investment either. He made mistakes some time, too. A man needs political power. You see, the first news yesterday wasn't what was said about the labour law, it was who he could buy. It's an insult to the state. Those who earn the most, who do not lead their party when they come out here and present themselves, their party is run by NGOs, those journalists who are able to use the texts of big thoughts on large issues, and the party without ideology. They don't know what ideology is. We heard, though, last night says man, Americans say what we should do, we do and almost, what we should do. It's a new reality. He's slapping you, he says – you have to accept, it's a new reality. You see, that's the assembly that's distracting this Serbia. He's stalling, and he's making Serbia a lot of fun. The man took advantage of the monopoly position, provided great resources, took pictures with locks, salads, shared his goods everywhere and simply wondered how none of them had it. Like, they're all BK. Not everyone's BK. And there's BT, and there's that MT, Trajkovic. I always thought he was older than Tito. He always solves the problem in Kosovo and cannot solve it. It's good in all the authorities. Nebojsa Covic, his alternative falls, he accepts these faster and is again in power. Of course, no one's commenting. The labour law is on the agenda, a law on work based on the Law on Privatisation, which is based on an unwritten law on job loss and which relies on the illusion of a beautiful, almost beautiful life when we are joined. That's the illusion he's carrying. This law will do well because it contains some directives. Convince someone in these companies that he'll be better off after this law. Let's start with a little order and let's say. So the Serbian Chamber of Commerce does not meet the requirements of being a social partner. She can't sign, she has no representativeness, she has no elemental condition, she's not on the principle of volunteering. For what else are industrialists, it's also problematic. There is volunteering, but there is a strong interest that the whole association is bound to the BK, to provide jobs and everything possible through BK. They took part in privatizing a agricultural combination, so they ran away. So they don't bring honey and milk everywhere. In the BK system, honey and milk only exist because of a large commission and large pairs. Of course, a man makes a lot of money, doesn't need more money, secure 17 generations in the future, now he needs political power. A citizen, a Canadian citizen, needs power in Serbia. Count what it costs, hurry up to BK, payout's waiting. In such conditions we pass this law. Since the former secretary of the Extraprofit Commission has established a strategy on how to make the law, here's to explain it a little bit. He says – if a problem arises in business business and business should go bankrupt, what are the rights of employees. Let's say we take BK's example. He can go bankrupt, the money is taken, he doesn't care about the man anything, he takes the money when there was one government, another government, third power, any government can change, he'll take the money. Why? He's got a strategic position in the impulse industry. So can the prize games, so can other fake money, it's not a problem, it's all a problem, it's all going to our place because it's become a prestigious thing. If by any chance BK goes bankrupt, and according to this law that this government has also proposed, anyone can go bankrupt. In voluntary bankruptcy, it is even better to leave, then it can happen that the editor-in-chief, who, say, receives 7,000 euros a month, comes into the fund you made, this solidarity fund, as a socially unsettled person, and nine months receives compensation. You're the guilty MPs because you voted, because you're going to vote for a bill like this. So, this bill protects BK editor-in-chief from 7,000 euros in monthly incomes, because they are fully in an equal position, and one who hasn't received a salary for months. Yesterday, our MP Todorovic here tried to inform the former secretary of the Extraprofit Commission that there was something not logical, that a law was written by someone who had no idea of the law, that it is impossible to pay from this fund the compensation for a stay nine months ago, because with the employer, it is only the first 30 days of sick leave. Everything that's over 30 days goes to the health care fund. He didn't explain it to us. The rest is unclear. He didn't get into the facts at all why that is. Maybe there's some valid reason. Maybe the reason is that from the same fund is one state fund, another state fund, maybe this fund had no payouts, etc., but the question is, what about the claim? Unpaid salaries, earnings and anything else that a worker asks of his employer, regardless of the shape of that employer. It's his claim that opening up bankruptcy becomes a classic bond. He needs to settle down from the bankruptcy. With this law, the minister tells us – he will not settle down from the bankruptcy, but rather social peace in nine months' time, since this government was elected, to cover the burden of all taxpayers, but he who in bankruptcy is going to privatise why he buys the company. What is not defined here when this situation is and from what day does the change of employer occur? What's changed with employers? Take this "Prince Milos"; the small shareholders, and they had the status of an employer. Sold his shares, came a new employer. Is that a change of employer? Who can find the answers to this bill? I'm telling you that there will be disputes about the application of existing general acts in that company and the level of rights that employees should have. That's not what you're thinking. The important thing is to corn, we've passed the law, we'll come up with a bill to solve it, tomorrow it'll all be best, the directives are behind us. I don't care about the West and the European Union for our law, what it's gonna be like. They gave foreign employers some objections at the beginning to point something out, and then they pressed it down, because they saw it fit. Who's it good for? The employees aren't responding. Yesterday MP Todorovic raised one principle question, so he said – the employer who cannot fulfil the obligations under this law should not work. It also refers to an employer in private property, state property and what remains little of social property. That's what got over it. These are the principle issues that this law needs to resolve. It goes beyond that, just a rocking explanation, a directive that and that, and now to take someone who's been professionally following this area, he's going to tell you that these directives are not incorporated into this bill at all. The 111 convention is only partially incorporated, not fully incorporated. It's a convention relating to a ban on discrimination. It's enough to come out for a pay phone and say those three letters to the MOR and it's all covered. It is as if up until a few years ago in Serbia all laws were against all the standards of the International Labour Organisation. And we were valid until 1993-1994 as the country with the best regulation, and the largest regulation, and even the reregulated area of labour relations. Like, that didn't exist with us, we didn't have the standard, we had everything. We didn't get ahead of those standards. So, when it's a little bit of a wrinkle, then you can see something's on fire. Don't burn it all. It's enough that you set the congregation on fire, don't burn it all down in a row. Leave some company, let there be something, even if we swear, let's say -- it was a company, my father had a pension there, so I guess my kid's gonna work sometime. You're talking about some kind of fidelity here, rewarding fidelity, so there's still something about Japan. Yes, there is this feudal type of market economy, where the loyalty of workers to the company is most appreciated, but the worker is respected. There's an employee's expense here. The cost of doing business that should be reduced, as economists type Djelic, Pitic, who only observe it mathematically. Three plus two five, end of story, you fit in -- yes, you don't -- I don't care; and my human rights -- I don't know, I don't care. People come here, they say -- someone ate two-thirds of the social product. It was eaten by those who bombed, by the ones who sent you here. It's forgotten, people fall from Mars and then they dig up what's been going on here. This people had to survive. They had to survive somehow. This bill is another normative lock, which probably aims to maybe pre-warn something, which aims to avoid the responsibility of the state, above all the government, but also has something that is dangerous. I'd like to remind you of Articles 257, 258 and 259. You see, a state that does not participate in collective bargaining, here the government has provided for itself the right that the minister may, at the request of the employer or the employers' association, decide that collective agreements under Article 256 are not applied to certain employers and associations. Then what's the deal? What is the collective agreement, when the minister can say - this collective contract does not apply to "Secerana" Kovacica, for "Futura" from Belgrade is not valid, it does not apply to this company, it does not apply to that company. What is this exception to the rules based on? At the good will of the minister. Disposition of his, his pure will. It can't stand in the law. Something like that if it's in the law, then the law doesn't need cowboys. That could mean it. Then, it is said, if I don't tell you about these agreements, about collective agreements, what experience in France is, since we would be wasting our time here for nothing, because these MPs don't care, the audience doesn't care, because here the main question is going to be in this prank that's going on. No one cares about this, he's not going to carry this, he's going to take statements from there until they get there with the Constitution, and it's going to come from a television video. Whoever didn't follow this transmission will think that we were just talking about the Constitution today, and we were talking about the labour law. It's these pranks that have been going on for years already here. It is said -- among other criteria there, the union is considered representative etc, and there is no limit not to be financed from abroad. Excuse me, if he's funding from abroad, that's a bad thing. It stands here, it says, if it is financed mainly from membership fees and other own sources, it has a lot of places mostly, as a rule, it is understood, neutral provision etc. If he's funding from abroad right now, I'm starting to express dissatisfaction and suspicion, because based on some of our experiences here, some of the experiences we have to call on, we don't get some of the best things from there. The foreign-funded union is instrumentalised for political purposes. Who? The one who gives money. Why would someone give money to someone, because they're pretty or because the RTS reporter used to be or because he has a last name, like some guy who's also getting money from abroad? No, you know, money comes for that and that. Now you'll hear how the American Embassy financed the Resistance. The contract was written, he had Montgomery to cover himself with a contract so his people wouldn't call him, even though it didn't help him, he can't go to America. There are a lot of things that have been inserted to hide the essence of this bill, which is bad. We don't even have a definition of what an intern is. Why is someone being admitted to intern status? We don't have a definition. I don't know if he'd work out, so he could work on his own later. We don't even have an organ to assess whether he's satisfied. It's called an employer. The employer can be anything. I guess the employer has to have some two-degree thing, something that if a man is threatened with the right to complain to, to distract, there's something wrong. Working for a certain time, without the reasons for up to three years, we have people for five or six years with foreign companies that work, who don't have regular work experience, not in working terms of indefinite time, but in this way pressure is being put on them -- you have to be like this, like this, you have to do this, you have to do this. You don't get to regulate your work hours. It says - it's a meeting, a contribution to increase the number of employees. With this provision, you will not increase the number of employees, but only increase the number of people who suffer for their jobs and their jobs. It would be very wrong if all of what the SRS is telling you were interpreting as if someone were pathologically fighting for the rights of employees, and in doing so, you think they're the same rights from self-government society, when it was -- you can't pay me so little, as little as I can do. I have to tell you, you're making a big mistake. We don't stand for it. But if it is our constitutional obligation to go to this civil society, first of all in terms of respect for human rights, then we must remind you that employees enjoy certain rights and that the minimum of those rights must be regulated by a labour law, a minimum that cannot be done, a minimum that cannot be negotiated. As possible, there's one provision, now I remember, says minimum profit, if he made a deal with the employer. The luftists now only make minimum profits, only minimum earnings to negotiate, because the employer is the cost and he wants to cut that cost. You're saying you've protected someone's rights. What right did you protect? It's probably gonna be someone from the coalition who's in power to jump, but it's about social enterprises, who cares about these social enterprises. That's not true. With as much money as it came from abroad, and sometimes you boast that there's been a lot of it, and yet you say it didn't really come very well, you could have helped these companies as much as you could without questioning the privatisation process itself. It's not an interest, because those who want to privatise our economy, they'd like to do it with a bank guarantee that within six years they'll pay what they bought, and in the meantime, they'll sell the property they got. You have an example of Gorice, an MP of one of these parties who's in power bought it, and he was entitled to 10% by some contract, I think, to sell it over the year, and he sold 40, paid off everything, and he doesn't care, he blames his hat. He wiped a nice man's nose and earned money. What's his name? That's what you check, since you're in conflict with them. I'm not a mediator for you, I'm your liquidator, don't forget that. You will be, slowly, slowly, your turn. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11545	Mr. Radosavljevic, however listen to Mr. Krasic, I have warned you several times.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11546	Aca is inspiring. We'll talk about Bodrum later.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11547	I understand that you are helping Mr. Krasic continue these six minutes, but I would ask you anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11548	This law when it was passed in 2001, Borislav Novakovic, from Thessaloniki, voted, you know, on his own, it is generally known. It's a new democratic standard, you're not informed, you were at the session at the time. It's a new democratic standard. The law can change whenever you want. Tadic pledged to resolve it, however, he is busy with Libya. In January alone, some things happen in Libya. He had to go there urgently. If we're still talking about this privatisation, like the words that got sick in Serbia, because it doesn't see the positive things, but it showed up here in the negative light, the first association is, which is cheaper to buy the company. The second association -- to shut down that company. The third association - drive people out of work. Maybe that's not the case, but practice is the way it is. You can deny me as much as you want verbally. Go out and get some company and ask, go to Gorice and ask, go, a lot of companies, and they'll answer themselves. Have the authorities report to all those companies and employees of those companies who lost their jobs in privatisation and you'll see how many colleges you'll be buried with. We experienced it in November 2003, when there was talk of that great government, etc., so the faxes went crazy from the citizens' messages, with the name and last name, who in which the company lost his job due to privatisation, this best form of privatisation, the democratic form of privatisation. These are some things that happen. This law does not help, does not help in the part concerning the protection of employees' rights. Just to be more specific, in the part of protecting the rights of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are in a working relationship, and maybe that sounds better. He's not protecting us. Big money's in and nothing's been restructured. And then when you read the last page of the bill's proposal, it is said, an analysis of the effects of the law and then under 1) earnings, under 2) increased earnings and earnings, below 3) minimum earnings and below 4) expenses and rights for other receipts. It's grandmothers and frogs. The effect of this law will be that. You explain one thing to me, the National Bank of Serbia is preparing to raise wages. The governor will likely have over 300,000 dinars and 13 directors in Belgrade of these sectors will also receive much higher salaries. Now you, great experts, and I'm not so lucky to have them here, explain to me where the National Bank and the employees of the National Bank will be in this collective bargain. Will they be part of those workers being held as civil servants or will they be in the form of banking? I have an answer for one and another. If they're in a banking group, then there's nothing wrong with that group. If they're in a group of civil servants, then you've broken through every possible limit, ratio, percentage and relationship between the lowest and highest pay. That's what this is about. Regardless of some personal decisions, I can't help but feel that what this general has given most favors G17, because they haven't left the government, they've remained to spend that big money, since all the finances are in their hands, and customs, and taxes, both banks and the National Bank. I don't know if there's any more money out there that you're not. You're not in business. You're not interested in economy. So, the next general when he surrenders, voluntarily leaves, immediately puts the sign the same – I have made it possible for Labus, Dinkic, Jelasic to continue in these positions. Because if the general hadn't left, they'd have escaped from the government right away. Of course not, there's money, there's you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11549	Thank you, Mr. Krasic. I was just about to ask you how much longer you're planning on talking so we could know when to take a break. Mr Krasic has been talking about this point for 52 minutes now, and that's probably for this session, he's right. At 15.00 hours, we continue our work. The first to be declared is National MP Heliana Dragojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11550	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing our afternoon session. By official record, 115 MPs are present. Please, to check the quorum, MPs to insert their MP cards into the electronic voting system units. I find there are enough MPs present in the O.R. to continue our work. The first has the word of the MP of the people, Heliana Dragojevic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Miroslav Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11551	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a proposal for a new law in the field of labour legislation. The labour law that is now in place was passed approximately three years ago, it had a lot of newspapers in theory, but little has been brought to life and implemented in practice, which suggests the need for individual labour law institutions to be better offices, as well as to regulate new legal institutes in line with EU legislation. First of all, it is meant to prohibit discrimination, to protect employees from changes in employers, to identify extra employees, to ensure the claims of employees in the event of bankruptcy and so on. The new labour law will also provide for the application of the relevant EU directives and the International Labour Organisation Conventions ratified by our country. As we know, the labour law regulates the rights, obligations and responsibilities of working relationships, i.e. on the basis of work, which, in addition to the law, is governed by the collective contract and the labour contract, when this law is laid down. The labour rules shall only be adopted exclusively in the cases provided for by law and shall cease to be effective in the collective agreement. In this way, the collective agreement gives priority and greater legal force. What is the most significant paper in the field of labour law introduces the bill? First of all, it is a ban on direct and indirect discrimination in the field of labour relations. When establishing a working relationship with a person under 18 years of age, written consent is required for parents, i.e. the adoptive or guardian, to prohibit the condition of establishing a working relationship by giving a statement of termination of the contract of employment by candidates. The upper limit of the length of the test work has been increased from three to six months. According to the proposal, the employer will be obliged to provide the employee with a photocopy of applications for compulsory social security. The applicable law did not regulate the establishment of a working relationship between the directors. This proposal provides for the possibility for the Director to establish a working relationship by concluding a work contract at a certain or indefinite time, as well as the way in which the contract is concluded, in the event that the Director does not establish a working relationship. The paper is about redistributing working hours, so far it's been one year, and now the proposal says that the redistribution of the working relationship takes place for a period of up to six months. The minimum annual vacation of 18 days has been increased to 20 working days, and the first part of the annual vacation, if used in two parts, is proposed to be used for at least three working weeks. The right to use an annual vacation is given in full or in part until 30 June of the following year, if an employee has not been able to do so in whole or in part because of maternity leave, leave due to child care and special care of the child. The minor changes also suffered provisions on paid leave, with it set out as a special basis for the use of paid leave in the event of death and voluntary blood donation. The legislator paid particular attention to the protection of employees under the age of 18, pregnant workers during maternity and leave due to child care. More precisely, obligations have been established, elements for determining earnings, as well as for no longer entering the costs of transport, fees spent on official travel in the country and abroad. The decision on the level of minimum earnings shall be made by the socio-economic council. The decision has been made 10 days since the start of the negotiations. After that, a decision on the level of minimum earnings is made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The payment of the severance allowance, the compensation of the funeral expenses in the event of death of members of the family and family in the event of the death of an employee, was provided for as an employer's obligation. In the future, the employer will be obliged to provide the employee with a profit account, both for the month for which the earnings are paid and for the month when the salary payment is not made, i.e. the salary fee, with reasons why the payment has not been made. The employer is obliged to keep a monthly profit records. The most significant innovation of labour law concerns the protection of employees' rights in the event of bankruptcy and the protection of employees' rights in the event of transfer of business or part of it to another employer. To that end, the establishment of a Solidarity Fund is envisaged, where under the conditions laid down by the law, employees' claims were provided, on the day of the bankruptcy proceedings, in the working relationship with the employer, as well as persons who were in a working relationship during the period for which the law is exercised. On the burden of the Solidarity Fund, employees had the right to pay their earnings and earnings during their absence from work due to temporary prevention of work, damages due to untapped annual leave by the employer, severance payments due to retirement, damages on the basis of the court's decision on labour or occupational illness and on the payment of social security contributions. Also, the very important innovation of labour law concerns the protection of the rights of employees in the event of a status change in the company or part of it, or the change of employer. The employer is obliged to apply the general acts of the employer of the predecessor one year from the day of the change of employer, unless the time on which the collective contract is concluded is before the end of that period. The decision to fire has also suffered changes. In the future, the employer will be obliged to deliver a written notice of termination, which contains the basis for giving notice, facts and evidence indicating that the conditions for termination and the time limit for giving a reply to the warning have been obtained. The alert shall be delivered to the union of which it is an employee. The proposed law provides for special protection against termination during pregnancy, maternity leave, leave for the care of the child and special care of the child. The law prescribes conditions for union representation and employers' association. The collective agreements are concluded for up to three years, and participants in the conclusion of a collective agreement, as prescribed by law, are required to negotiate, and issues may be resolved before arbitration. In the functioning of the law, and to be recorded and implemented, a significant contribution should be to oversee its application, as well as to monitor the application of other labour regulations, general acts and collective agreements. Much more penalties for employers and a responsible person in a legal person have been prescribed, and a ban on the exercise of activity is provided for as a safeguard measure. The objectives of the adoption of a new labour law are to implement the European Union directive in the field of labour legislation, more specifically the provisions of the law providing for the application of conventions and recommendations of the International Labour Organisation, information and communication on relevant issues relevant to their material and social position, mutual respect, agreement and agreement between employees and employers, the establishment of a balance between the rights and interests of employees and employers. The adoption of the bill will create legal assumptions for the establishment of a solidarity fund. That is why I call on all MPs of all parliamentary groups to support the draft labour law in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11552	Thank you. The People's Messenger Miroslav Zivkovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Vojislav Milajic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11553	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the quality of one law is valued only through its application. However, what we can say about the proposed labour law right now is that it will certainly be much, much better than the current Labour Act. If for nothing else, it's because we're sure it's brought in one way that prescribes positive regulations, not by voting from Thessaloniki, Bodrum, and who will remember everything. That is why MEPs G17 plus will vote in favour of this law and will support this proposal. The biggest flaw in this law is that it may be a little late, but this failure certainly cannot be attributed to the current government but to the previous one. In fact, if some of the norms in this proposal had been installed in the previous one, surely many of the negative consequences of privatisation would have been removed, and if not completely anulated. Just ask yourself if the consequences of privatisation, those gray, black privatisations that came out of the bankruptcy process, would be what they are now if they were in the solidarity fund at the time. This law brings one of the most significant newspapers precisely through the formation of this solidarity fund, which protects company employees' rights in bankruptcy. Some of the advantages of this law and the novelties that he brings were discussed by colleagues before me. I would stand out, except for what's already been said, and a ban on discrimination. So, during employment, any discrimination over gender, religion, religion has been removed. What I may not agree with is a claim for damages caused by discrimination. In fact, there is one provision of the law that introduces the burden of proof to the prosecutor. I have been explained that it is according to some of the recommendations and directives of the European Union, and I have no reason not to trust the Minister. However, it has little to do with Serbia's legal system. This law, and there's maybe a few flaws, a flaw, a condition, and let's just say that it might be a little out of control, so let's compare it to some laws on environmental work. Excessive head doesn't hurt, that's for sure. As one of the positive sides of this law, and perhaps most importantly, I would point out that the employer is obliged to submit a photocopy of mandatory insurance applications to the employee within 15 days after the start of the employment relationship. What do you want with this norm? That's what Mr. Minister explained well, we'll prevent the appearance of work on black, we'll prevent workers after a few years with certain employers from realizing that their contributions are not paid and, of course, the burden of that will fall on the state or the workers will not be able to exercise one of the basic rights, let's say on pension. Maybe this law should have been passed much earlier, but it's not a failure of this government. G17 plus will always vote for laws that, where chaos was, where there were doubts, introduce order and legality. That's why I'm asking you to vote for the adoption of the labour law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11554	If we can continue with limited emotions. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Milajic, and let the MP Boris Karaic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11555	Ladies and gentlemen, the current law that passed DS back in 2001 in the way it...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11556	Excuse me, Mr. Milajic, I'll give you your time, please, MPs, please let the speaker speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11557	Ladies and gentlemen, the current law that was passed by the DS back in 2001, which was disastrous for the highest layers of employees, and as the general public is known, was brought in a scandalous way by voting MPs from Thessaloniki, an MP who was not physically present in the National Assembly. That law is neither legitimate nor legal. In its essence, it is disastrous for the largest layers of the population. The DS has destroyed the highest levels of employment for the past three years, sent to the Bureau hundreds of thousands of people and employees. This bill tried to fix what the DS did. This law falls under system laws that need to bring about changes and a better life for the fastest layers of the population, to sort out the problem of extra employees and indirectly solve the problem of employment, those who are currently out of business. I'm just going to look back here on the part of the law that concerns solving the problem of extra employees, which is members up to 153 to 160. The bill, where the employer is scheduled to adopt a programme to resolve extra employees, should technological, economic or organisational changes affect the need for work for a period of 30 days, and now cite three situations. Ten workers can be fired and more in companies that have 20 to 100 employees, 10% employees for enterprises that have 100 to 300 employees and 30 and more employees in enterprises that have more than 300 employees. The bill stipulates that under the notion of extra employees and the layoff of extra employees will be undertaken if more than 20 people are fired within 90 days, regardless of the size of the company. It is predicted that the employer must bring in a program to save extra employees. The employer is obliged to deliver the programme to the representative trade union and the National Employment Organisation within eight days, with the representative union having its opinion on this, and the National Employment Organisation should offer a project to resolve the programme within 15 days. When an employer is given an opinion and a proposal for measures to address the problem, he is obliged to respond within eight days to the representative trade union and the National Employment Organisation. Following this strong correspondence between the employer on the one hand and the other by the union and the National Employment Organisation, of course, there follows the termination of the employment relationship between those people who are identified as surplus employees. The legislator himself called on the European Union Council Directive 98/59 of 20 July 1998, where collective dismissal was regulated. It's their name, and it's actually about the extra employees. The conditions for firing are very similar, but they are not identical. And they tie it to the size of businesses and the number of employees, when they will be considered a collective layoff or not, so they also predict that for companies of between 20 and 100 people ten and more fired workers they will be considered a collective layoff; for companies of 100 to 300 is 10%, and for companies that have over 300 employees over 30 who are fired. However, according to the European Union Council Directive, it is also envisaged that the individual dismissal of five and more workers will be considered collective discharge, which is not foreseen by this bill. The system of protection when collectively firing workers under this Directive is slightly different. According to this Directive, the employer is obliged to notify the competent state authority and the union of the intended lay-off of workers. The Union shall address the competent national authority in the countries of the European Union in respect of that surplus worker, with a restriction that these workers cannot be fired within 30 days, which is not the case with our bill of law. Therefore, a 30-day period shall be given to the State or to the competent national authority to address the problem of surplus employees. The state also makes sure to protect the rights of people who are collectively released, but at the same time, the employer commits to keeping them for at least 30 more days at his place, until the state finds an adequate solution for people who are out of a job. Also, there are restrictions in the directive that these provisions do not apply to workers who have established a working relationship indefinitely. It is limited that these provisions of the Directive do not apply to employees of the state administration and public undertakings. Third limitation refers to employees working on maritime vessels. It is seen that this directive has been used in the proposal, it has been partially rewritten, literally from word to word, the second part has been modified and changed, probably according to our terms. However, there is one fundamental difference, which is that, according to our bill, which we are discussing today, the employer is scheduled to create a programme that will refer to the representative union and the National Employment Organisation. They have an obligation to give opinions and suggestions. The employer will respect or not, and will most often not respect these proposals and opinions, and therefore there is no obligation on the employer to retain those workers, regardless of the proposals and opinions given by the union or the National Employment Organisation. This program represents a form that does not solve anything. It's simply trying to amortize the social dissatisfaction of workers and to deport potential social unrest that would be caused by mass layoffs. (President: Time. ) The Directive of the Council of the European Union provides for a fundamental difference by the state undertaking to address the problem of collective dismissal. She's bound to do it within 30 days. The employer undertakes to keep employed workers who are scheduled for collective layoff for a minimum of 30 days or longer, until the state finds a solution for that person category. There is a fundamental difference, because the state is making a commitment to address a major socio-economic problem, such as unemployment. I think the promoter used the directives and recommendations of the European Union and the IOR, but he gave them a non-critical copy. I don't think it's clear to the proposer himself that some of the institutes in this proposed labour law will solve it. (President: Time, Mr. Milajic. Please finish. ) In the end, I would just say that these are cosmetic and formal changes to the labour law which, at present, is disastrous and that any change is, in principle, better, but nothing essential is being solved. I'm sure the SRS won't vote for a bill like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11558	The word has the People's MP Boris Karaicic, and let MP Dusan Mrvos be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11559	Dear Ministers, the Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues, it is very good that today this law is on the agenda, for several reasons. First of all, I have to say, that it would not be forgotten, that, if it were planned and if we adopted this law in the day of the vote, the law on work, which was voted in this room on 5 December 2001, would not be, by the vote of Thessaloniki, one law which was, and today is, unregulated and which has completely shown the true face of that former government, when I and two of my colleagues, Professor. Bajcetic and Vojkan Tomic, for refusing to vote for the law then, illegally, kicked out of this assembly. On the other hand, this law represents one shift in the right direction, because the great discrimination between the rights of employers, on the one hand, given by the applicable law, and the rights of workers, is reduced. In fact, it's trying to establish a balance in one direction that the employer can no longer, as he's wanted, fire a worker without reason, but on the other hand, we can't satisfy the demands of workers who think they're still living at a time of self-management and at a time when they think they can decide everything. In fact, no law, nor can this labour law reconcile those two uncompromising attitudes that have been in force for centuries and that unions, on one hand, and employers, on the other hand. What we can do with this law, which we do, is change the consciousness of our citizens, which for years, unfortunately, is wrong and which I would describe as short as possible in two patterns, in two terms. First, people often think wrongly that once a job is permanent and that it exists forever. On the other hand, there's a belief that it's the state that can always provide, and that it's arbitration, and that an individual is not the one who needs to fight for himself. Both of these attitudes are extremely wrong and unfortunately dominate our society for 50 and a few years. When it comes to the first position, we had a situation, especially during the 1970s, when social firms received a large number of workers, especially from the village, that people were selling their property, leaving the village for one reason only, to get a job in large social enterprises. Here is an example from the municipality of Užica - The Valyanica copper and aluminium has tripled the number of its workers during the 1970s and 1980s, under the pretext that these people need in the production and process of work. Of those 10,000 workers, almost 50% were surpluses at any time of the work process. In Užica, and in a large part of the country, there was a saying -- I don't work anywhere, I work in the Valley; or -- nobody can pay me as little as I can work. These people represent that layer of society that is now 50 and change years old, who grew up in the wrong system, who thought and who still thinks that having a job had a job. Having a job isn't and can't be the same as having a job. Having a job and wasting time there, it can't be tolerated, it doesn't know the modern world to which we're trying. In fact, privatisation, as a key process pursued by this state, has established a new standard for people who decide, management, to adopt the process of production as required by today's modern world. If that number of workers is too high, then it's not the company's problem, it's those people, and it's those countries that need to create an ambience, that these people don't waste their time at work and get paid for nothing, but that they can be overqualified, that they too are fighting for their jobs, that they find a job, which is not used to a large number of our citizens. During the 1990s, when we faced the truth that many people were employed on an empty, over-linked basis, in that workplace they did nothing and contributed, then the number of people, workers, first of all, went to the gray zone, went to the markets to feed, and the state had no answer to that. The state can't have a full answer to that, but it can do what the past government missed, which is that instead of giving away often one-time severances, however large and calming the tension for a few years, it can try to initiate in agreement with the worker in these people the birth of a new consciousness, which is that, as far as possible, they have to fight for a better place in society and for a better job in that society. The state can help them with that, but it can't always end. The state isn't that arbitrationist, it's not some body that solves all the problems, as many people often think, but it's an organ that prescribes rules that always apply to everyone. There's always that dose of individualism that it takes to get someone to handle it. If someone isn't capable of age, because of various circumstances, they'll have some relief, but people can't act as if we're still living in a time of communism and in a time of self-government. This is a big and important outcome, not only in this legal sense, not only towards changing regulations and norms, but I also hope that people's minds change and that in five to ten years, a new concept of reality is born, in which the workplace is not given on a gift, but it is deserved, and that work is done, not just sitting and wasting time. This contributes, first of all, to the privatisation process, which has taken hold and which is yet to take hold, as our society develops. In this sense, this law should be welcomed and I expect that in this assembly, when the day comes for the vote, this law will pass without any major problems and this time I give a compliment to the writers of this law, because indeed, the applicable labour law deserves my comment because it is completely irregular and has completely ruined the process of work.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11560	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Dusan Mrvos. Before my colleague Mrvos takes the floor, I will read the four names on this list, to see if they gave up the discussion - Snezana Pantic-Aksentjevic, Djordje Mamula, Snezana Stojanović-Plasic and Rade Obradovic. Have a colleague of Snezana Pantic-Aksentijevic prepare.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11561	The President-in-Office, one of the inevitable consequences of transforming the social system into a democratic constant strengthening of the understanding of the need for participation as many social factors as possible in deciding on important things in that same transformation. Modern social processes have two, at first sight contradictory, characteristics, to define private property as an uncut form of ownership, but also basic social democratic values through human rights affirmation, and thus both labour rights and work. In all this, social dialogue appears to be an advanced process and an imminent phenomenon in democratic societies. I will try to shorten this debate in principle, as there are many amendments, and as far as I can see, MPs are definitely not interested in the labour law. Just to quote one definition from the Swedish legislation, which says that the government is a guardian of order in the independent position of workers and employers, that it through laws, but also in other ways, creates reasonable conditions to protect workers from unreasonable exploitation, i.e. creating legal frameworks for the negotiations of workers and employers. Speaking on behalf of the SPO-New Serbia Parliament Club, I say on behalf of the MP club that this is one of the laws that creates such conditions for negotiations between workers and employers. The law is based on UN strategic documents on civil, human and trade union freedoms, especially the Civil and Political Rights Pact and the Pact on Economic and Social Rights. It is based on the EU document on the European Social Charter and on the Conventions of the International Labour Organisation, particularly on the Conventions on the Freedom of Employment and Functioning of Workers' and Employers' Organisations, on the Freedom of Corporate Negotiations, on the Rights of Workers to Consultation and on the Right of Workers to Corporate Negotiation. As the minister in the introductory exposé said, the law recognises collective bargaining as a dominant form of bargaining, distribution of profits and to workers, a reasoned reason for quitting, forming a solidarity fund, employment status and in case of change of employer, banning discrimination on all grounds and sanctioning and discrimination and, finally, propagating the idea of labour dignity. Starting with this, I call on the government, the resolution minister is not here, I call on the representatives of the ministry and the government to accept some of the amendments that SPO - New Serbia has made. I'm going to say only two essential amendments, and just from this sentence from the Minister's exposé. It says - the law recognises collective bargaining as a dominant form of bargaining. That is why we call on you to accept the amendment to Article 1, which defines Article 2 so that the rights, obligations and responsibilities laid down in Article 1 of this Article are governed by collective labour contracts. Now, in the bill of this law, there is a decimal behind this point and it is said to be governed by a collective contract, by a labour contract or by a labour rule. If it's already said in the exposé that collective bargaining is a dominant form, then don't rule on work, because the labour rule is made exclusively by the director and there's no bargaining there. We call for you to accept the amendment to Article 243 which allows the general collective agreement to be concluded by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with the representative association of employers and the representative union established on the territory of the Republic. So you're giving the possibility that the government can conclude a general collective agreement, if for no other reason, if the government doesn't conclude a general collective contract, employees of the state administration, employees of social activities and employees of the public sector will be left without a collective contract. Finally, adopt an amendment that is only technical in nature, and I think the Committee on Labour predicted it only technically. Give the possibility that the employer may refuse union membership based on the access card. It doesn't have to be based on a written statement, it's a more technical matter, we know that there is a need for special consent to an administrative ban, or a suspension from salary, etc., but if the government has already requested that, in the previous period, trade unions prove the number of memberships and their representativeness, not again that all members of the union sign statements, let it be done only at the level of accession. I'm going to finish this monologue with only one sentence, that the degree of state power transfer to other social partners is actually a real measure of one society's democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11562	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Pantic-Aksentijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11563	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are at the end of the debate of the labour law. The G17 plus parliamentary group will support and vote in favour of this law. We will vote because this is one of the laws that contributes to harmonisation of labour and social legislation with European legislation. It has been in previous discussions and Mr. Minister's presentation a lot of speeches about this, but it is not a waste to repeat once again what this law has positively passed. It brings improvements to the solutions that are in force in the existing Labour Act. A positive assessment of this law was given by trade unions, employers' union and the IOR. MEPs G17 plus have submitted amendments to individual members of this proposed law in order to make minor corrections and achieve better solutions. I hope they'll be accepted. G17 plus will vote for their adoption. The application of this law will strike a balance between the rights and obligations of the employee, the safety of the employer and the employee and the social dialogue will be improved. A collective bargaining obligation will be created, which will eventually result in the adoption and signing of a collective contract. A number of positive provisions of this law are a ban on discrimination on all grounds and sanctioning such behaviour. The right of discriminatory persons to compensation for damages, where the burden of proof is borne by an employer. Regulation of employees' rights in changing employers, the new employer takes over all labour contracts and the existing general act. So we'll never get into a situation where workers lose their right to work and no work. It is necessary to highlight the right of employees to establish surpluses, a programme will be presented with a consultation of the National Employment Service and a representative union. This reduces the social consequences that arises, but this time permanently. The right to severance, an appropriate situation in which the country is currently located, which now amounts to three average salaries. The Solidarity Fund has appeared for the first time as an institution and, what is significant, we know that in the last year we adopted the 2005 budget, it is significant that the budget has been allocated if such funds are not available in the bankruptcy. The rights and obligations of employees and employers are also defined by this law, which is the right to perfecte, retrain and qualify in the event of new technology arrival. The participation of the employee in the distribution obtained in such a way as to stimulate workers, to work effectively in the factory, and that is good for the worker, good and for the capital. Work on black will be contained, so the employer must provide the worker with a copy of the mandatory health insurance application. There have already been talks about this part of the law, but I think it's very important, because we know that, according to the record, 380,000 people in Serbia are employed in black. The position of the employee in relation to the performance of the work obligation shall be defined. A workman separates himself from the unemployed and finally gets rid of the dilemma of how to stimulate the one who works and punish the one who doesn't work. In 2004, we adopted the Law on bankruptcy, and a set of financial laws was adopted. I'll remind you of a number of tax reliefs for employers who employ workers for over 40 years. We all know that the G17 plus that's why she stood up the most. We also adopted a budget that sets aside funds and, after the adoption of the Labour Act, all these laws that I have listed will be applicable and live in practice. MEPs G17 plus will vote in favour of this law and we expect to encourage work in Serbia. We'll bring in foreign investors, but this time they're making money, and we'll give back the dignity of the work. I invite you to vote together with the G17 parliamentary group, plus in voting day for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11564	The word is from a colleague named George Mamula, and we'd exhaust the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11565	The existing Labour Act was passed on 21 December 2001, and the proposal was on behalf of the Serbian government, therefore, Mr Dragan Milovanovic, otherwise president of the Labour Party of Serbia, or a working party or some version of the domestic Tony Blair. That the liberal concept contains the Labour Act, however, there have been objections from abroad, and the objections are not respected and the law has begun to act, with rather devastating consequences. The labour law showed the price of privatisation paid by the company between 2001 and 2004. This bill, which is now ahead of us, still takes very seriously the European Union's recommendations and could be said that the bill opens the door for the social market economy. Therefore, it introduces elements of social justice and respects the European Union's very serious task when it comes to the sphere of labour and labour relations. The directives which are respected by this bill are recently applied to the EU, so we are not much behind the EU, so before the European Court of Human Rights's practice on labour decisions is looked at; neither are those rights, although they are prescribed, very respected in Western and European countries, so there are problems. However, the most important directives are the 1976 Directives, 76/207, on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women when it comes to accessing employment, then professional education and advancement, as well as working conditions, with amendments and additions from 2002. The following directive, issue 43, on the application of the principle of equal treatment regardless of racial or ethnic origin, which in the EU, according to some European Court of Human Rights rulings, has been quite disrupted, so that the right there in practice has yet to be achieved, since in some countries, such as Germany and the Netherlands, it has been violated. The next directive is 78 of 2000, which sets out a general framework for equal treatment in employment and choice of profession, then on working time from 2003, which is only half of 2003 recognised. Then, from 2001 (23) on the protection of the rights of employees in the event of changes in the employer, which is very important, because the new employer must enter the rights and obligations earlier and that all circumstances, because he is a new employer, are no longer justified, which was the case earlier in the European Union; and the 1980 directive on the protection of employees in the event of employer bankruptcy. In this bill, I think it is very important that, when it comes to cancellation, the employer must finally state the reasons why he quits, which has not been the case so far, so in practice we have had a situation that you cannot dispute that decision of the employer, because what is not based on arguments cannot even be challenged by arguments, so I think this is a very important change in the protection of employees' rights. The sanctions are pretty big, but I don't think those who don't break their rights will even be exposed to penalties. I therefore believe that this bill should be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11566	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? Here you go. The word is from MP Ivica Dacic, head of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11567	Thank you. I thought you forgot my name or you wouldn't mention it, but thank you for remembering. The labour law is a basic law regarding employees, and that is why I think it deserves our special attention. I have not noticed that this law has triggered special attention, unfortunately also from parliamentary clubs, as well as from the media and politicians. If you listen to the media, open the newspaper, you will see that there is almost nothing in the media, that the basic theme is whether Bogoljub Karic buys MPs, that the basic theme is who will cross from which political parties to another political party, etc. There is no interest in those who work, and that is why the SAA wants this law to give special importance, as it has given the law, which you unfortunately adopted almost unanimously in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on equalising the rights of partisans and Chetniks. The SPS is a party of those who live off their work and that's why we want to highlight a few basic indications here. First of all, I wouldn't be talking about the past Labour Act. The past Labour Act was one of the worst laws in Europe. The last Labour Act had a negative opinion from the International Labour Organisation. The past Labour Act, or the applicable Labour Act, was adopted with obvious theft when voting, but that is not the worst. The labour law has introduced, in line with the new system of values created after 5 October, a completely different view of what is called the economic sphere or any other sphere where the relationship between the employer and the employee exists. We know it's not working time today. Today is the time and era of employers. Today is the time and era of profit. Today you say there's no self-management, but there are workers. What about the rights of the workers? This law is better than the existing law and it is not disputed. In education, professional training, training employees this law is better. In the area of establishing a working relationship, i.e. the employer's obligation to deliver a photocopy of applications to mandatory social security, it is also better. In a section relating to vacations and absences, i.e. vacations, it is also better than the existing law. The better solution is also in the work concerning the protection of employees, i.e. the protection of disabled workers. The promotion is also in the part of costs and other receipts. It is now the employer's obligation to pay for the severance, funeral expenses, compensation for the damage to the work and the occupational illness of the employee. A slightly better solution is in the area related to the employer's resignation, as the employer's warning is predicted and the union's opinion before the job is fired. When it comes to surplus employees, it is also an obligation on the employer to bring in a programme of resolving extra employees and setting criteria. This law introduces some new areas, demand for a bankruptcy employee, the establishment of a solidarity fund and something interesting, which is a ban on discrimination or how it stands here in one part – sexual harassment. I want to point out that Serbia today is not in the 20th century in the field of labour relations. Serbia is now in the 19th century, as far as workers' rights and the real state of action are concerned. I don't know if you know, and ask the company workers, and they're not just company workers in the social or state sector, they're workers in private companies, ask them what it looks like to have a working relationship. Ask them if anyone will accept a young girl or a woman in a working relationship, and the first question is whether they will happen to be pregnant in the next year. If she's going to be pregnant with someone, it's gonna be hard for her to get a job in that company. The directors are gods today. Workers are slaves, and directors are gods. Directors set up a union, in some companies directors chair the unions. Also, working hours; who takes care of working hours today? Can a worker ask his boss when he tells him to work afternoons or nights? That, ladies and gentlemen, was in the last century. If you want modern legislation, we must move forward with the social charter that exists in the European Union for more than 10 years. Also, we have proposed for a third child – and it is our amendment, which is a weakness of this law that is not accepted, so there is no maternity leave for a third child for two years – maternity leave of two years because we want good for our country and our people. We're not gonna be like Tito, who was best man to every nine children. Let us be godfathers to every third child and encourage the birthright of our people. Then, the organisation of employers and employees; there is socio-economic advice. You know how, you have employers' organisations, you have union organisations, and you have socio-economic councils and government representatives. If you take Bogoljub Karic, who has an association of industrialists, who tends to be an employers' association, who has good relations with the unions and if you have a Bogoljub Karic who will buy you here and enter the government, will he be the one who unites all three tomorrow? As far as we're concerned, this law has serious shortcomings. There is no warm meal and regression, there is no significant improvement in the protection of employees from layoffs, there are still solutions to the applicable law when it comes to working for a certain time, there is no ad, no competition, no maternity leave for a third child for two years, cash benefits for unemployed persons and cash benefits for persons who remain jobless as a technological surplus are miserable. If someone thinks that the great progress of this law is a ban on sexual harassment, you also don't know what's going on in our businesses. I'm going to name just one example of the new owner of the Kruševac Parish, who said in the newspaper, the woman, says -- one of the first decisions I made was to get someone to sleep at work to punish with a 10% reduction in salary, who we catch in doing that thing to punish 20%, and who we catch in the workplace to reward 30%. What are we talking about here? You have entered into this law a provision which is arbitral and which can be interpreted in different ways. Of course, the essential objection of the SPS to this law was given in the amendment to Article 255. The basic thing in the union struggle was a collective contract. The collective bargaining is what workers have been fighting for centuries, that the union forces employers to sign a collective contract, which will guarantee them certain rights, the amount of earnings, etc. Here in this law you provided that the collective contract applies only to those employers who are members of the representative employers' association. I would like to remind you that today, members of a representative employers' association are only 10 to 20% of employers. You are making a law that provides for collective agreements only for 10% or 20% of employers in Serbia. You predicted that the minister could arbitrarily decide who would apply collective agreements without consent. That's absolutely the wrong thing to do. We are looking, and here we support the union, that the collective contract must be applied directly to all employers, otherwise let's not pass labour laws that cannot be applied. Why would an employer be a member of the association if he was forced into some obligations? Someone will say - foreign investors are against so many rights and workers and unions. Foreign investors, ladies and gentlemen, in this country today face less labour rights than they exist in the West, and that's true. Nor did they mind this African labour law that is now in place to invest in Serbia. I ask the Government's representatives to accept our amendment. This law is better than the existing one, but if this amendment is accepted, I warn that the big question is whether the SPS will vote in favour of this labour law, even at the cost of not adopting a new labour law. This is the basic thing that workers are looking for, that the collective contract is applied to all businesses, not only to those who are members of the employers' association. So, since the Ministry has not accepted this proposal so far, I suggest you consider it one more time. This is a capital matter. Not just for the SPS, for all of us, for the workers, for those who live on this work in this country, because many people can't even live on their work because they have nothing to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11568	Excuse me, Mr. Dacic, would you be so kind as to bring the end?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11569	Thank you, Mr. Markovic, for crossing my name and name over your lips. I'm grateful for that. I interrupt, and once again I call upon the representatives of the Government and the Minister to accept our key and essential amendment. Otherwise, the big question is whether the SPS will support this labour law, although it is better than the existing law, which was at the time of DOS authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11570	Does anyone else appear on the basis of the rights arising from Article 89? Rules of Procedure? Mr. Minister, please, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11571	Unfortunately, I was not present when my colleague Dacic spoke, but I do know what their fundamental objection is, or the fundamental amendment they point to. We've had a certain conversation about this, and I've made an argument, which is why this fundamental amendment he's talking about is not acceptable to the government. Now I'm going to try to repeat that argument. The basic thing, when it comes to the direct application of the collective agreement, is not to be applied directly, by saying in the law that it will be directly applied to all employers who are not even members of the association that concludes the contract. Why can't he? In addition, because Convention No 98, which has been ratified and which has become part of the internal legislation at the time of ratification, clearly defines the collective contract as an act and, among other things, in Convention No 98, says collective agreements regulate mutual relations between the participants of the collective contract. So it's completely impossible and contrary to that convention to apply a collective contract to someone who, since he's not in an association that closes the contract, can't handle each other's relations with the other side. It's just that there's a logical inability, a contradiction and an adecto - it's impossible. Such a provision if accepted, I fully understand the war and the interest that is spoken of here, but it is completely contrary to Convention No. 98 and at the same time contrary to the logic of the collective agreement. The collective agreement applies, the very word "contract" says to those who participate in its conclusion. The law refers to erga omnes, refers to everything. When we pass the law, it refers to everything, and to those who did not vote in this congregation. So the essence is in a completely different nature than these two acts, collective agreements and laws. The proposal, of course, by the SPS parliamentary group, has its own ratio, its reasoning, its own reasoning, but it is not possible. The problem is, it's impossible. There is no similar solution anywhere in the surrounding countries, either closer or later, under which the collective agreement is directly applied to all, whether or not they were members of the employers' association, which was concluded by the collective agreement. We would be unique in Europe with such a solution, but it is not in itself evil. We can be unique if something is good, however, it is simply not possible to accept it that way. What I was talking about and what I was explaining, what's possible, that's what we predicted in the labour law. We have foreseen an extended fact of the collective agreement, so that it can be established and defined with the previous opinion of the Economic and Social Council, which consists of representative trade unions, representative employers' associations and government representatives. They give an opinion, the resolution ministry makes a decision on an extended action and it is a mechanism that the world knows. There are two reasons why an extended action decision is usually made, meaning those who did not participate in the conclusion of the contract. One reason I should say employerly is because this prevents unfair competition, that those employers who are not subject to a collective contract would not reduce their costs lower and thus become more competitive than the employers who have concluded the contract and pay their profits to it. It's the first reson, the employer. There is a second reson - laborer, which is that all workers are brought into the same position, usually higher and better, as regulated by a collective contract. It's just a mechanism that the whole world knows. I think we should apply it, too. There is one more thing, we also say in the law, that even when we find an extended fact, and it applies to all Serbian metals, the ministry can find the exception that a number of employers are not applied unless they can handle it, if it shuts them down and liquidates them. It's just a whole logical mechanism. It is in accordance with, as I said, with directives, IOR standards, it is in accordance with Convention number 98, which we have concluded as state and ratified. She's also in line with the recommendation. So these are all reasons why we can't bring into the labour law such a solution. I think the reasons are convincing enough. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11572	Replica, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11573	I know it's not easy for a minister. He's the only, practically, member, so if I can call him that without him getting angry, which he is a member of the left in this government. It's between a hammer and an anvil. It is among those who are for the liberal and neoliberal concept of the economy and between its beliefs that it should be on the side of workers. Accordingly, he proposes and defends something that is the government's official policy, out of fear that it will anger some foreign investors, that they will not come to our country, because there will be again allegedly some self-government system, etc. This isn't about that. This is about a practical problem. Which is why you make employers become members of the employers' association. Why would someone become a member of an employers' association? The representative employers' association today must have 10% of employers in its membership. We can get into a situation where we have no partner left in collective bargaining because employers will have no interest in joining the employers' association. What about 90% of the employers in Serbia? Who does this provision of collective contract law apply to? It applies to those employers located in the employers' association. Let me tell you, Mr. Minister, not all union workers are members, so they are subject to what the representative union negotiates on collective bargaining. If that can be true of workers, then it must be true of employers. They're not our favorite employers and someone who thinks they're making money on someone's work, but they're the ones who create it, and they're the ones who do it. That's why this is a principle question. I'm sorry to be with the minister, who belongs to the left, but I have to discuss it. It would make sense for me to discuss this with the DSS, G17 plus, radicals, Democrats, though Democrats, friends and comrades are left-handed, but they have long gone to the other side. Anyway, I'm sorry I have to break up with you guys. Leave the obligation to apply this to all employers, and give yourself the discretionary right to free certain branches or employers from applying these collective agreements, not vice versa. That's the basic question. We don't have a law on employers, we don't have a union law, you know that. Today we have unions that have been under someone's political influence, we have employers who are also under someone's political influence. That's why this is a very important question for us. We will have an uncovered area and a large number of employers who will not be subject to the obligation to sign collective agreements, but only to apply this labour law. This labour law is better than the existing one. (President: Time.) But it's very important that people realize that having money and forming a company doesn't mean that he who works with him is a slave without any right, that it has to apply to him, except the labour law, and the right of people... Why doesn't someone in private companies have unions, why don't you ask yourself that...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11574	Mr. Dacic, please be kind, really, that we're using time effectively, now there's an amendment debate going on, and that's where you can explain your views.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11575	I've replicated to Mr. Secretary, and I apologize if I've timed out. Once again, I insist that this is a very important question and that I don't think that the government should go over it lightly. It's one thing he's negotiating with the European Union. When we enter the European Union, and all employers, no one makes them, they themselves are members of some associations. That's another question. Let's change the law. Let's not be 10-15 years before we enter the European Union, as the G17 did, he opened the door and liberalized the foreign trade, we have a huge external trade deficit. Dinkic admitted here that a mistake was made because it was done before. Let's not do that here and now. We'll pass the law, we have an institution of collective agreements, but there won't be anyone to apply them, because there won't be any members of the employers' association.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11576	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. I'd like you to pay attention in time. The word has a Mr. Minister, and then Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, a replica to the exhibition. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11577	I'd just like to say something that's important about this topic. Of course there are, and I mentioned in the conversation we had directly, problems with employers, their organization, there are problems. But what is a rational solution and an explanation of this provision that we are proposing is that employers, in order to be representative, should have 10%. Now the employers' union, which has been reported with us, has about 20%. What will actually be the interest, what I am talking about, and employers and trade unions, i.e. employees, to propose through the Economic and Social Council to the government, or this ministry, as soon as they conclude the border contract, to establish an extended fact. It will be a mechanism, the only effective, there is no other, no order. An efficient mechanism for employers to actually force themselves, so to speak, into associations and to be able to ask themselves, because when they face an extended fact of the contract, whose work they didn't participate in, then they'll say, wait for the people, what is it, let's go quickly to that association. There is a fine mechanism that will produce in Serbia that we have the rights of employers' associations and that they have an interest in entering these associations. One is just a note, when we had this solution in the 1990s, it was followed by the following environment: collective agreements were then concluded by the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, whose existence was mandatory under the law. There they all were, in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. And the moment the concept is abandoned – and must be abandoned, because collective bargaining can only be done by voluntary associations, so the Chamber cannot – this is the moment when the mechanism of direct application is no longer possible. That's the reason. As for what counterpart Dacic was talking about, I stress that what we will first face when we adopt this law, if we succeed in adopting it, when they conclude border contracts, employers, those we have with the unions that we have, it will certainly be their logical request, Vlado, ministers, establish an extended fact for all Serbia for metal, for all of Serbia for textiles, and that will be the mechanism. I'm sure he'll be the only one and possible, who'll bring employers and make associations competent, and that's how we'll solve this problem. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11578	The word is from the peoples of MP Tomislav Nikolic, head of the SRS parliamentary club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11579	I may have made a mistake, and if I am, take away my word, but it seems to me that one opposition, which is only for this speaker and in the transmission, mentioned the radicals, so I'd like to make our point about it. So, I don't know what the left-hand and right-hand division is about when it comes to labour law, so before I hear anything that doesn't agree with SRS ideology. There's no one you don't pay attention to in relation to your employer. It's free if you focus all your attention on the employee, and you don't have an employer. If you haven't paid attention to this employer that he can work to have employees, it's a special ideology of the Socialists. The first privatisation law was passed at the time of Slobodan Milosevic's rule. And then the SPS didn't only verify employees. And she gave up on the Marks principle that they were employees of the factory. So now we have the factory owners. Some became 12 or 13 years ago, some a year or a month ago. The state has to take care of them, they pay taxes. They organize production, where employees work, who need wages and rights, I agree. The truth is, you've predicted here that without the signature of an employee he has the rights and obligations that someone signed on his behalf, the majority union, and he's not a member of that union. You can explain it by saying it's for his own good, but every law is for the good of everyone. This law is also for the benefit of employers, so the employer has to sign. There's something else I miss and I miss about disputes or, say, when the labour inspector finds that some employer doesn't work according to the law, so the final solution is the minister's. An administrative dispute is forbidden. There's something wrong with me. You know, if you forbid anyone to appear in court, there's something wrong. Why do you have the right to exempt certain categories, in this case employers, for which you, ministers, have found that they do not respect, for example. A collective contract? What gives you the right to say that he can't lead the administrative dispute? He's got to be in charge of the administrative dispute. The court has to decide, like the last instance. The minister can't be the last instance. The labour inspector is in your ministry and the minister is in the Ministry of Labour. One ministry can't secure two degrees in the process. That's what bothers me. Otherwise, when we say we'll vote for the law, we vote for the law. When we say we won't, we won't. When someone here says it's a big question whether they vote or not, then the government remains to say what the question is. I'm witnessing these big questions. There were often big questions here, and it's not done the way the one who asked the big question, and he's voting for the law. Now I'm interested in what's now a big question.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11580	MP Ivica Dacic answered the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11581	Ladies and gentlemen, I have responded to Mr. Lalovic's statement, and since I have not been mentioned in the discussion of those who ask big questions, I have no reason to answer, since we have been together for years and they have been asking big questions and we have been giving big answers. So I don't see why today would be a different position. As for that, I would like to repeat once again that the SPS, of course, is interested in employers, but we are much more interested in those who work with these employers. The tycoons, the rich, the robbers who got rich in these 15 years, we're not interested. Accordingly, we continue to insist on finding a solution that collective agreements must apply to employers. I don't know if you understand what this is about. There's an employers' association, one that's been divided. One run by Rata Ninkovic, with the other wing led by the gentleman, I think, Zagorac, whose name appears as one of the organizers of Mason, and there is Bogoljub Karic, who organizes the Association of Industrialists. Why would a businessman, why would an employer be a member of an employers' association? What does he get? What are you making him do? And if it isn't, it means there's nothing binding for him. We will not pass a law that will not apply to 80-90% of employers in Serbia. I know there are directives of the European Union, but there is an IOR. The previous government didn't care at all about the international union confederate, she cared about what the IMF said. This is no big question, since it was a question of what a big question it was that we would vote for this law. The big question is the conditions of the transition, when 99% of the employees will be hit. In these times, for at least a few years, we must protect those who live from their work. Collective contracts, in conditions where only 10 or 20% of employers are members of the employers' association, must be binding on all employers. (President: Time. ) By doing so, you will force them to be members of the employers’ association and thus make them organize. Otherwise, you'll have chaos, you'll still have employment under any criteria, formal respect for the labour law, but in part complete exploitation, discrimination, night work. You'll have no employment of women and girls who need to give birth, etc. Speaking of big questions, let’s not ask too many big questions, for big questions can be asked every day. If anyone wants to say anything, say what they want. I don't think it's time we talked in riddles.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11582	I'm finishing the initial search. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Mrvos. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Mrvos. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Rankic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11583	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2(2) requiring the removal of the extension "if by law it is not otherwise specified". I'll read you the whole point of view, see what it's all about. He says, "The provisions of this law apply also to employees of state authorities, territorial autonomy bodies and local self-government and public services, if the law is not different." We could have submitted the same amendment to St. 1 and 3, which is the subject of this law, i.e. the basic provisions, but we submitted it to Section 2 for the reason that in this case it is the employer who has the political power, who rules on a republican, regional or local level. There is no reason why employees, whose employer is an autonomous unit of local self-government, autonomy or republic, would have a different status. Whether they are employed in a different way, whether their incomes are different and whether they should not have the fate of other workers. I suppose this is ("if the law is not different") in Article 2 added on purpose, and not to be noticed, since Article 1, 2 and 3 of this article have the same extension "if the law is not different". Thus, the whole of Article 2 was brought to absurdity, completely unnecessary, because everything that is stated in it later stands - if the law is not different. You see, it's a rule of service, when I was a soldier, in the end, it was written in addition to all the provisions -- this rule of service applies unless otherwise ordered. This is completely understandable because the army is a specific organization in which there is a certain hierarchy, but completely unclear, if we are to be a democratic society, which are other laws that will regulate this matter. The first position of this member refers to this: "The provisions of this law apply to employees working on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, to a domestic or foreign legal person (hereinafter referred to as the employer), as well as to employees referred to abroad by the employer, if the law is not different. "Station 2 is fully contained in attitude 1 -- which are employed in units of local self-government, territorial autonomy, also those employed in the Republic of Serbia. Of course they are. So attitude 2 is completely contained in point 1 and there was no need to write, because they are not listed which are the specific reasons why they would have different status. I will read to you a third position: "The provisions of this law apply to employed foreign nationals and stateless persons working with an employer in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, if the law is not different. "Of course, and this one was contained in attitude 1, there was no need to transmit. Now I'm going to tell you, based on the data we have, what it looks like when the law sets something different. You have a member of 54th where it's said - health care services as overtime, is governed by a special law, I believe, by the Health Insurance Act. I'll give you an example from the health center in Bora. That's where the law enforcement officers are brought in, the lawyers are on duty, they have no reason to work after their normal working hours, but they are, by some grounds, friends, whether the political or some of the others, the director of the health care facilities prescribed by them. At the same time, in the same home of health, or health center, on-calls to specialists, whose services really have to function 24 hours a day. And a child psychiatrist, a doctor of science, is suspended, even though children of drug addicts who have suicidal ideas come in the afternoon, etc. They were prevented from having a doctor who would receive them, because he's a member of the SRS and he's supposed to be on duty, so there's an absurdity to say one lawyer gets a salary of 45,000 dinars with duty, and one doctor receives 23,000 dinars, and then it brings the entire collective into a very awkward situation and disturbed interrelationships. So this wouldn't happen, and it's clear that the government doesn't have a clear concept, as soon as all three members say in law, if the law isn't different, then the government doesn't want to make it clear and say it, and that's what the law says, and the point, but it's always letting someone else's laws do it differently. I believe that if you do not accept this amendment, then it will lead to the absurd application of the whole of Article 2, so I don't think the law will be able to apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11584	Anyone else on this amendment? Here you go, Mr. Palalyc. Please don't argue that some junkie is a member of some party. That's not right.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11585	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've had this solution in the proposed law before. Namely, it is the relationship and state of the Labour Act, as a general law, which applies to all working relationships and so on. specific laws in certain areas, which regulate individual issues in the establishment of employment relations, the rights of employees during the working relationship and the termination of employment relationships in a different way, according to the specificities of those bodies in which employees work. In particular, in this case we had this, when it was said that the government had no idea and that the legislator had no idea what it was about, it was not true. The Law on Labour Relations in State Authorities has very specifically regulated labour relations issues, where there is an ad, where a solution to a working relationship is based, a two-stage issue in the exercise of law, a disciplinary procedure and some other issues regulated by the Law on Labour in State Authorities. I do not understand why this amendment has been tabled, because this is one situation that existed before and has respected the specificities and states as employers and authorities of territorial autonomy, local self-government and other public enterprises, etc. I don't understand why this amendment has been tabled and we can't agree with that amendment. Of course, the state understands why it has given its special rights to its employees and why these rights are in some way broader than certain rights in the Labour Act, but I say, the Labour Act is generally applied to all employees, only those solutions, those provisions that do not exist there, which are contained in this Lex specialis, such as the Labour Relations Act and the State Authorities, are regulated differently. At that time, these rights apply to employees of state authorities or local self-government. In that sense, there are no allegations we have heard here and I don't think this amendment should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11586	Thank you, Mr. Palalic. Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Markovic. The government and the Labour Committee, the martial arts and social issues have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, with corrections, in the same text, MP Dusan Mrvos and joint MPs Zarko Obradović and Milisav Petronijevic submitted. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not accepted amendments with corrections, and the Legislative Committee proposes that amendments with corrections be rejected Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Milovan Radovanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Labour Committee, the fight and social issues have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. The government and the Labour Committee, the martial arts and social issues have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zlatko Radic. The government and the Labour Committee, the martial arts and social issues have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11587	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6. It's a draft labour law. The article reads: "The union, within the meaning of this law, is considered an independent, democratic and independent organisation of employees in which they voluntarily join for representation, representation, promotion and protection of their professional, economic, social, cultural and other individual and collective interests. "The word "democratic" in this membership formulation is too high. This is about trade unions that will play an extremely important role in the direction of the rights of workers and the implementation of this law that you will pass. In particular, their role will be seen in the restructuring of large enterprises such as EPS, NIS and Railways. The leaders of the representative trade unions have mostly been involved in the purchase of winters and other less important things, related to workers so far. One of the negative examples is the Association of Independent Unions of Serbia, which deals with coal resales, known as the coal mafia. The most important thing right now is for union representatives to be honorable people, who will not be corrupt by directors and employers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11588	Thank you. Anyone else on this amendment? Here you go, Mr. Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11589	Thank you, Mr. President. I kind of feel like you're making it easier to say my name and last name than your vice president, who's uncomfortable, but he still has to mention me. It is that they thought that we would disappear from the political scene, but here we are, we are alive. On the other hand, this article six, if someone were to look at the side, I guess you'd say there's nothing in it that's problematic. But -- the union is considered an independent, democratic and independent organisation of employees. I would remind the proposer of this law what democracy in the original meaning means. Democracy means the rule of the people. If you think every subject should go along with a sign - democratic, then that's another one. Then we should call ourselves the Democratic Republic of Serbia. After all, there was one Democratic Republic of Germany, so you didn't exactly consider it democratic. Besides, there was DOS, so does anyone else think it was a democratic creation? There's an DS, which I don't really know if is a form of democracy, because you know how, anyone who's against the DS president is excluded from that party.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11590	Mr Dacic, please, I am warning you of article 100 and I ask you not to express yourself with any doubt about the parties that are parliamentary and have MPs in the assembly. Be nice, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11591	Thank you. I really didn't express any doubt, I expressed my confidence. So, I have no doubt that's the case, and I'm convinced that's the case, because a creature that in three years' time, called DOS, has been arrested by 12,000 people, and now it looks like they were all babies, a creature that's now led to the fact that, in the end, here, as we're talking today, a vote from Thessaloniki, from Bodrum, I don't know if it deserves to have such an epithet. That's why I haven't expressed my doubts, but for this member, I really don't think there's any reason that in the work concerning trade unions it's supposed to be democratic. What does that mean, tell me what that means, democracy is the rule of the people, does that mean that the union should be ruled by the people? What does that mean? Are you saying to look at the structure of the union, whether the internal, democratic organisation of that union, you're saying that Milovanovic's union is a democratic union, etc. So you have an independent union that's here, it also says that the union should be an independent organization. You have a union called that. I really don't know, maybe the union should change its name and be called - the Independent Democratic Independent Union of Serbia and then meet all the conditions you've given to be considered a union. Don't put any words you don't know after what you're going to do. Not everyone is represented by, not every party is democratic because it is called democratic, not every party is independent or union is independent because it is called - independent; it is independent, but is dependent on one part, and is dependent on the other part. If you think "democratic" should say he's close to DS, that's another question, then you should put in a big "D." Anyway, I think it's bad for her to write like this. Don't put the word "democracy" everywhere, because it got so much out and we're slowly entering Orwell's society, where everyone is equal and equal, just some are a little more equal or more equal than others. I think this amendment is good, no matter what the promoter did not accept it. If a member is going after a team to prevent some unions that may have been created in totalitarian societies, such as in Frank's or some other times, then that's another question. Then it's not regulated by words - democratic. Democratic, so when people choose you, and people don't choose you here, this is where they choose those who are members of the union. If something is democratic, by the rules by which it is chosen, then that is not the original meaning of the word - democracy. In any case, I know it's modern, but modern words are quickly forgotten, hatched, lost their meaning, such as cohabitation, reform, transparent, coalition capacity, democratic capacity, etc. You live some real life that's being led here in Serbia, and don't live in some times where we might all want to be together, but we're certainly a long way from it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11592	Please finish, it's been six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11593	Yeah, but this is democracy, and we need to explain this word a little bit more thoroughly...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11594	Mr. Dacic, democracy is, above all, respect for procedure. Thank you for respecting the procedure and for letting us finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11595	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11596	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Replica, Mr Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11597	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People, I am sorry that I am simply forced to go out on the line. I thought we were done yesterday. I'm sorry that my colleague Dacic obviously doesn't have any sense to say anything about the Labour Act, which is the subject of this agenda, and I'm sorry he's making comedy...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11598	I'm sorry, and you're covered by article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11599	I'm sorry he's making this unserious atmosphere in the Republic Parliament and I'd ask him to sit down, because I don't know why he's coming at me like this. As for saying Mr. Dacic's name, I really don't have any problems with it, but I think Mr. Dacic thinks I have problems, as the citizens of Serbia should have problems, because when you mention Mr. Dacic's name, you can think of a lot of things. You can remember the sanctions, you can remember thousands of crippled people, you can remember the loss of Serbia's Krajina, you can remember the loss of Kosovo, you can remember the stolen elections in Belgrade in 1996, you can remember the empty shelves, crime and killings on Belgrade's sidewalks. A lot you can remember when you mentioned his name. He was the spokesman for that government that was at the time when all this was happening. So if you think, Mr. Dacic, I have a problem with that, I don't. I remember that time, I lived in Serbia, lived in that Serbia, but I have no problem saying your name. I do my job professionally, and if the President of the Assembly trusts me to lead the Assembly, I will lead it, and I will have an equal relationship with you, with respect, as it suits the MPs. We had a debate yesterday about this law, which also in one part turned into a "stitch parade" of the SPS that wanted to discredit the DS, but then I said I wouldn't use your speech method. That's when I put out the data, and I'm always ready to face you or any member of the SPS and say what the results of the government's work are from 2000 to 2003, and what it is that government has left to the next government, and I would be very pleased if you in the numbers were to talk about what your government has done since 1989, or since 1990. So I would ask you to try to speak this way in the future and simply, if you have a problem with DS, if you have some kind of obsession with us, I would ask you to forget it in some way, so that in the future we can collegiately and in the interest of Serbian citizens to cooperate and talk in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-01-0.u11600	Thank you. And I thank you for your willingness to co-operate, and the obsession is allowed by the Rules of Procedure, but after 1800 hours, no words are allowed. Please, tomorrow at 10.00 a.m., we will proceed on the amendment to Article 7, as I asked before if there was anyone else regarding the amendment to Article 6, so it is said that there is no; so, by amendment to Article 7. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 135 MPs attend today's session. To determine... I'm asking MPs who can't use a cell phone not to get over five rows, just to do this first part, please. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Mrs. Kovacevic, you can put your card in before you take your seat. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are enough MPs present in the hall and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Aleksandar Vlahovic, Milisav Petronijevic, Slobodan Mihajlović and Nadica Momirov. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: – Proposal FOR A RAD (Singualty) The MP Ljiljana Nestorović submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zlatko Radic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Zlatko Radic has the word.
