ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13482	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 135 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum in the hall for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session of the following MPs: Nikola Novakovic, Brance Stojanović, Željko Tomic and Vukosav Tomaševic. We continue to work on the established agenda. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Privatization (separation) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Natasa Jovanovic, Zoran Krasic, Paja Momčiov, Momir Marković, Vjerica Radeta, Dragan Jolić, Nemanja Sarović, Milan Stevović, Aleksandar Vlahovic, Boris Karaičić, Jovan Todorovic, Živojin Stefanović, Jovan Palalić and Zarko Obradović. You have received reports from the Privatisation Committee and the Legislative Committee. You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Privatisation Act has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Natasa Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13483	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, it is unacceptable that the government's representative, and in particular the minister, is not here, because the debate in particular on the proposal for a law on privatisation should, through the additional argument of the Serbian Radical Party MPs, affect the improvement of this law and be in office, above all, employees in Serbia and those whose businesses are yet to enter the privatisation process. My amendment refers to the great authority which is still in the Law on the bankruptcy procedure given to the Privatisation Agency, and is now confirmed by this law through the fact that it is possible for the Agency to appoint and carry out the operations of the bankruptcy manager. The question arises where can the Agency be trusted by a license to carry out the business of a bankruptcy manager and how employees in those companies where bankruptcy proceedings can be initiated can trust the Agency which has on several occasions, through several hundred cases in which it has not acted and acted properly, it has shown that there is no credibility and that people, and above all the director of the Agency, are not capable of such a thing and apparently had no good intention of helping employees in Serbia. There are many companies where bankruptcy has been launched and these are today major problems for growing and smaller cities in Serbia. I'll give you just the case of the Red Star Meat Industry factory, Kragujevac, once the most famous and very profitable meat industry, which had large exports to countries in the West and around the world exported its products, and today the factories in which a bankruptcy was introduced two and a half years ago, in which workers are now trying to protect their rights through a competent trade court. Many of the issues related to bankruptcy in this company, and since workers have now completely disproved me, have asked me to present some of the irregularities when bankruptcy is introduced, be kind and listen at least to some of what they have asked to hear and MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The cost of bankruptcy proceedings for the local red star industry - Kragujevac took over the debt "Stars", "Sport" d.d., then on the advice of local dossal authorities, as the owner himself stated, rather than the proposer of the PDO, the Kragujevac branch, which is outside the Law on Force settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation, which was then in force, and out of court practice. It's really unrecorded in the practice so far, but unfortunately, it's true. The decision on bankruptcy was not taken in the Kragujevac Commercial Court, as a real and local authority, but imagine, at the session of the Social and Economic Council of the town of Kragujevac, even that exists. And the owner of the MAP international used the brand "Star" in the production and packaging of its products, although the contract did not provide for it. However, these dissuaded workers, who had requested their rights from the competent trade court, were particularly intrigued by the fact that neither veterinary or labour inspection had done anything, although they were well-known for the fact that they had visited the "Stars" plants, but in 26.2.2003 they found no one in them, while in 26.3.2003, labour inspection reportedly found four administrative workers without a contract. At the same time, the bankruptcy manager states that the current pasture production is under the brand "Star" without any supervision necessary for such a thing. In the course of the bankruptcy proceedings, the appeal proceedings were pending before the Senior Trade Court in Belgrade. Also unknown, they were asked in a memo, which was sent to Mr. Minister and Mrs. Zori, explaining how it is possible that the company "Star-Mesotransport" appeared as an offer of the contained raw materials MAP international, "Juhor-Export" a.d. Jagodina. The same raw material was rejected for failure, and it is about 27 tons of raw material. Whose raw material is it, the Red Star or the Star-Meat company, when it's clear that the MAP has leased the capacity of the Red Star? To whom was the goods sold, when only 9,300 kilos of raw materials were destroyed? There are many more issues, among other things, about the deficit, which has been identified in the appointment of a bankruptcy manager in this company, of 814,063 dinars of fixed assets.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13484	Miss Jovanovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13485	Here, I'm done. Workers to whom such funds are entrusted with the protection and availability or bankruptcy management must be informed. How is it possible for someone to handle and operate in this way, when initiating bankruptcy proceedings, by means of basic means? When a bankruptcy is done in this way in the formerly known local industry in our country, in the "Red Star" from Kragujevac, we can only imagine how, if you don't accept this amendment that I have filed on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, crime, in the true sense of the word, that it is flourishing and that it is ruling, while the workers...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13486	Miss Jovanovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13487	.... innocent, without bread, without being able to support themselves and their children, suffer under this and this kind of authority that continues, unfortunately, the continuity of this previous one.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13488	Please, let's really take care of the Rules of Procedure. Is there anyone else in article 1 answering for a word? Yeah. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13489	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this member of the law applies primarily to bankruptcy and control by the Privatisation Agency. I'd like to say a few words about bankruptcy. We passed the Law on the licensing of bankruptcy managers in July of last year. It was a condition that the bankruptcy law could be applied. How much power takes care of bankruptcy and bankruptcy and all the malfeasance and crime that is taking place in these proceedings shows the fact that until today we have not formed and have no licensed bankruptcy managers and that this is going very slowly. The bankruptcy law came into force on February 2nd. In its operational plan, believe it or not, the agency predicted 12 companies for this year to conduct bankruptcy. It would be interesting from the minister to get information that these companies are and which is why these 12 companies, when we are all aware that there are a few hundred companies that are socially owned, where bankruptcy is currently being conducted. It's obvious selection of companies that are interesting to someone for some reason. It is obvious that the government is aware that trade courts are not doing their job properly and that it is dissatisfied. This was the reason why the bankruptcy was handed over to the Privatisation Agency and was given the opportunity to give away bankruptcy managers. The fact is that the government was afraid of that job that was in front of it, that it didn't persist and that it was pulling out of the bankruptcy process and leaving things to go the way things are going right now, and it's going bad. I would like to set an example of a company, I have an obligation to the construction company's workers, "Rad" from Belgrade, in which bankruptcy was ended in October. All debts were paid to workers, with all firms that had claims an agreement was concluded on the compensation of all claims; it was only necessary to make it official at one of the court hearings. The moment it happened, when Mr. Goran Kljajevic realized that the bankruptcy at Radu was over, the bankruptcy manager and his deputy were removed, and a new man was placed in his place, who in November and December tried to sell as much as possible without a tender, without any criteria all the assets of Rada, or 50% of how long it took to avoid this law that entered into force on February 2nd. Regardless, it was going to sell companies with an initial price of 1m euros, although based on the documentation prepared over the past three years, before the former bankruptcy managers were replaced, property is 50 and perhaps 100 times higher than the initial price. When it comes to control, we have a bad situation in the area of control at the Privatisation Agency. There's not doing any of what's supposed to be done, or doing it the right way. They're mostly falsified controls. Also in the case of a company in the Pomoravska district, in the case of Ravanica from Ćupri, I would show how negligent and uninterested the Privatisation Agency for the fate of the enterprises to be privatised. A year ago, a tender was launched for the firm "Ravanica" from Ćupre. Six interested parties reported, and they could not enter the factory circle thanks to one of the caucus mobsters - Radet Bilder, who stopped the buyers and did not allow them to enter the factory circle and check the allegations from the documentation they bought. The privatisation agency has done nothing about it, and a year has passed, production has been decimated, half of the workers from the company have been fired...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13490	Mr. Antichu...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13491	It's only been two seconds. It's not that big a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13492	Because it was seven minutes ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13493	Okay, I'm done. Just a minute. It's 500 workers, and it would be our turn to honor them for so much, because half of them have already lost their jobs and are on the street. Okay, and then take that away from Miss Natasha, not to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13494	I'm not taking anything away, I'm asking you to respect the Rules of Procedure for five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13495	I'm telling you, I only asked for two sentences. I'd say it's a business that's done well before, and we don't know until today what's going on with this company, because, according to the new operational plan, it's not even in the privatisation plan under the tender, or it's now auctioned. It's obvious that the pressure on the Agency...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13496	Mr. Antichu, six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13497	... The individual managed to avoid privatisation and put all workers in a position so they couldn't count on their jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13498	I thank you, Mr Antic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13499	According to the government's response to this amendment, there may be some confusion, as if the applicants of the amendment did not know what they wanted with the amendment. I don't think the promoter knew what he wanted when he wrote this article. The National Assembly passed the Law on bankruptcy proceedings. It was then said that in the event of bankruptcy against social enterprises, the bankruptcy manager would be the Privatisation Agency. What you add to your member says: "In addition to the business of the 1st member's position, the Privatisation Agency also performs the business of the bankruptcy manager, if it is bankruptly appointed... ". It doesn't depend on the bankruptcy council. When it comes to social enterprises, bankruptcy proceedings are opened, the Privatisation Agency is a bankruptcy manager and does not depend on a bankruptcy judge and on a bankruptcy council. Mr Minister, if you had formulated this position as – in addition to the business described in Article 1 of this Article, the Privatisation Agency also performs the tasks of the bankruptcy manager in accordance with the law governing the bankruptcy procedure, we would not have submitted the amendment. When you put this "if," when you put on a fence when the law doesn't allow a fence, then you warn us that something can happen. In what way? To distinguish between bankruptcy proceedings opened before and after the entry into force of this law, to retrieve, because the Privatisation Agency is unable to carry out the business of bankruptcy proceedings against the social enterprises over which the bankruptcy proceedings have been opened, not to mention those companies that expect bankruptcy proceedings as announced by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. In order for this to be complete, you have made an effort to add a new position 3. and you say – in doing business etc. The agency's checking. The agency can't check, it determines. And if something were wrong, Minister, see for yourself, point 1. says – Privatisation Agency (hereinafter: Agency), and in the last position you are now putting in the end stands – the Privatisation Agency, and again – (hereinafter: Agency). You in one of the same members give a generic term for the Privatisation Agency twice. Who did this to you? How could this go through with the legislation? When you publish, when you see the consolidated text of Article 5, you will see that you have an agency in brackets in both the 1st position and the 3rd position. Did anyone watch him make this bill? What you have inserted into the new position of 3. is completely different from the concept and content of Article 5. The fact that the Agency has to verify the value assessment within the framework of the control is already contained. But in order to cloud, to satisfy the audience, everything and everything is inserted, from one attitude to another, even something that does not belong to a substance that is in the title of a particular member. Of course, then no wonder there's a mix-up, no wonder that when he comes to the Trade Court and this song-writing president, we have chaos. Then now 250 MPs can come out for this pay phone and tell you what are the specific problems of bankruptcy proceedings that are under way. There's hardly any without any malfeasance. Is this ratio 1:50, 1:10, more like a technical question. We warned you when the law on bankruptcy proceedings was passed that it was not good that the Privatisation Agency was taking over these jobs. We warned you that it's not good that you're building an agency to license bankruptcy managers. We told you that this would not be a problem for that concept of your third phase of privatisation of the Serbian economy. You disobeyed us, and here for days you've been burying us with new laws on amendments and additions to laws that we passed six months ago. And, look at the wonders, you're now inserting everything that we've put in place as an objection to the adoption of those laws. No, this is not serious. We'll explain why this concept of what you're doing is not good. In a report by the Government, where you gave your opinion on our proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Privatisation Act, you tried to avoid the right answers; it wasn't, it wasn't mature, it wasn't, it's not, and now you're making changes, the wrong way, everything we suggested. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13500	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13501	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we can freely say that we have two ways of privatization since 6 October. One way he went through the Privatisation Agency and another way he went out of bankruptcy proceedings. Apparently, in the bankruptcy proceedings, there were a lot of abuses by trade courts, by bankruptcy managers, so this new DOS majority wrote a new Banking Procedure Act, where it was introduced by an institution of bankruptcy directors who should have a license, the Agency for the Licensing of Banks, and now we have a situation here that the Privatisation Agency is also a bankruptcy manager. It is as if all the ways of privatisation were to be united in one part, especially in that part of the procedure where the executive authority was not in charge, but in court. New law and bankruptcy. Now all these rights are well taken away and this job is to be done by the Agency. The biggest problem is not the laws themselves, nor the Law on Privatisation, which can be fixed, nor the Law on bankruptcy, but the problem is in those who enforce those laws. The biggest problem in privatisation is the privatisation agency. It seems to me that more attention should be paid to the Agency itself than to the privatisation methods, and to what that agency was doing before you came to power, or when you came out, for a short time, from the authorities, and now that you've continued, how privatisation is being conducted. There is not a single privatisation on the territory of the Republic of Serbia that is clean. Has it not occurred to anyone at the Agency why for a company that operates extremely well, which has large fixed assets, where the initial price is low, no one shall report on these tenders until the condition that one participant in the tender is sufficient? Why don't you worry about that? Why don't you just say it legally - it can't be less than three or it can't be less than five and it can't be one. That's the problem with privatisation. Now you have a situation... Here, I'm going to set an example of a catering company that was sold for about 200,000 - 250,000 euros, a large company. One place, any place, and you can check it out, it costs so much, with all the obligations that the company has, so, with loans, with unpaid personal incomes, etc. And at that price it's paid. There is a problem in privatisation, not in licensing bankruptcy managers, not in the fact that privatisation should be run by the Agency, which does not arrive that part of the job to carry out properly. That's why we're against this new concept of privatisation, which will be conducted by the Agency through bankruptcy proceedings.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13502	Is there anyone else answering for this amendment? Yeah. ) National MP Aleksandar Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13503	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group has submitted a series of amendments wanting this law to be corrected. A colleague of Natasa Jovanovic has submitted an amendment to Article 1(1). The law's proposal to delete this position, and in our explanation we have made it clear that the proposed solutions are contrary to the Bank's Banking Procedure Act. So this Article 1. The proposal to amend and supplement the Privatisation Act, proposed by the Government to the National Assembly and given for consideration and adoption, is prescribed to extend the work cycle of the Privatisation Agency and the business of the bankruptcy manager. A bankruptcy council may appoint a bankruptcy manager to the Privatisation Agency, and this is justified by the fact that the Agency is a specialised institution and thus achieves stricter supervision and evens practice. So, there is an extension of activity to the bankruptcy area, which has so far been out of the Agency's jurisdiction and only greater centralisation and potential for a series of malfeasances and corruption are being achieved. What is most important, the amendment by counterpart Natasa Jovanovic indicates that the solution set out in the bill is completely contrary to the law on bankruptcy. I hope you will accept the amendment of colleague Natasha Jovanovic and the SRS parliamentary group, because it is quite clear, from the presentation of all of us who have spoken about this Article 1, why this Article 1 should be deleted. If it is contrary to the Banking Procedure Act, it is clear that you should accept this amendment to the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13504	The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Since the Government and the Privatisation Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The People's MP Živojin Stefanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13505	I thank you, Mr. Angelkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, SPS MP Živojin Stefanovic has submitted an amendment, which I think the assembly majority should think carefully and accept. We have come from the basic programming definitions of our party, but also from the need to make some concessions when it comes to workers employed in companies that are privatised. What did we suggest? We have proposed that these changes be extended, so compared to what the Government has proposed, and the Government has proposed that the Agency determines the privatisation methods, which is not disputed, but we also suggested that another form of privatisation be introduced, so that this member would read: "In the case of the sale of capital, i.e. the property of a privatisation entity, the right to prevent purchase has a consortium of employees who accept the accounting value of social capital. Unless there is a consortium of employees for the purchase of capital, the sale of capital, or the property of a privatization entity, is carried out through the following methods: public tender and public auctions". Now, what's the point here? The right to prevent buying is in some way a natural right for those who are employed in enterprises that are not privatised. If these people who work in these companies, and who have, as a rule, created these companies, want the company to buy at book value why someone would be against it. Especially because in the experience we have that, as a rule, companies sold at auctions are sold significantly below book value, when the average is seen at the level of privatised enterprises in the past, say, four years. So why would someone now be against paying the bookkeeping price and buying a company where they're employed? You know that auctions start at about 20% of the bookkeeping price and then by bidding or by raising that price, some final sales prices. And as a rule, once again, I'm undermining it, it's lower than the bookkeeping price. In response, the Government said that this would lead workers, i.e. to a consortium, to a privileged position compared to other potential customers. But why would that be a problem? Well, you know, when someone built that company, then I guess the logic of the thing is that he knows best what kind of business it is, that he knows best what programs in that company can be realized in a way that he's doing business with profits, that he knows best the pain of these employees and that he knows best what it takes to do in that company, and he's willing to pay for it. If there is no consortium, there are no interested workers, nothing prevents the Agency from selling this company through a public tender or auction, the way it has been before. So the workers will not come to an equal position. In some variants, even workers might be damaged by forcing them to build a consortium and buy a company at book value, as they would likely achieve a lower price at some auctions. But if there are companies where workers are life-interested to be owners in these companies, I don't see any reason to prevent them from doing so, because it doesn't destroy the concept of this privatisation, although, as you know, the SPS has a very different concept than the one that is now being implemented. But we're simply trying to introduce some kind of fair privatisation and allow these people to be simply equal with others, and you could say a little more even, why not. When a farmer rents a farm for 20 years, he processes it, he stores it, keeps it from weeds, etc., so now the owner wants to sell it, and in this case the state acts as the owner of all social enterprises, or the Agency, then it is most likely that the one who took care of that field full of 20 or who knows how old it is and the right to stop buying. Finally, there are good experiences in some other regulations that allow us to have a neighbor who sells the field have an obligation to offer the first one who might be interested in buying it. I guess workers are the most interested in the companies they've created. I think this amendment should be accepted not only because we propose it, but because nothing bothers the current model, and it corrects the quality of the laws and workers in a position that suits them more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13506	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Kekic. It is just two more MPs after one amendment by Mr Markovic, if we took that criterion, then the previous amendment would be even less reasoned.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13507	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I absolutely support the amendment submitted by our colleague Zivojin Stefanovic, who was prevented from being in the assembly today. My colleague Jovan Todorovic absolutely explained the essence of the amendment. I have not reported to supplement Jovan Todorovic, who is famous, at least in our parliamentary group, and beyond, as an expert on economy and banking, but I have reported first of all to explain that this amendment has some earlier roots. The privatisation conducted by the Socialists and Radicals in 1997 and 2000 gave the right results. All the big companies that went into privatization at the time... And all I'm mentioning is "Bambi" from Pogorec, here, is still one of the most successful companies in Pogorevec. This is not difficult today, given that the Fireman was once the strongest, both the agro-industry complex and the energy complex. I would only ask the Honorable Minister, given these three or four years, that he has a great obligation to improve the Privatisation Act, both in normative and in concrete cases, means through the Privatisation Agency. The meat industry Pogorec, which was a giant, chief supplier of the Yugoslav Army for several decades, is the largest exporter for the most sensitive areas, for example. The U.S. market, it came to the point that today is a bankruptcy, the question is how it will come out of bankruptcy, that three years are different people from the Privatisation Agency, and later I will quote you an article, since I have documented letters of leadership and workers from 2001 to 2003. The centre for livestock, the second largest in the old Yugoslavia, is also in bankruptcy. There are neither buyers nor announcements that anyone will be interested. The fruit product, as well as the cattle food factory, which is privatized from bankruptcy. In 2000, a thousand and a half workers received their own income, and now they are in a position to be at the labor desk, or to wait for anyone to privatise them. There were also employees of the Privatisation Agency from Braničevski County, but I think their results are zero. I'd like to ask the minister to pay attention to the danger that's coming and that's likely to happen these days. You know and you hear through the media that the current strikes are in the Spear of the Bone. It does not strike 50 workers, out of 1,500, as much as Kostolac has, but strikes 50 workers, 80 or 100 of them, as employed in the "Georada", and these are those companies that will be excluded from the Public Enterprise Kopo Kostolac. They got certain guarantees that the first three or four years would have certain service jobs, and I wonder what would happen after that four year. What happens after four years with all these companies in the energy complex, if we call them companies, companies that will provide services, which are in Kostolc and Standard, and the FIU "Minel", and "Georad", which is today on strike, and "Autotransport". They're going to go back into privatisation, since it's going to be that way by "The Bones," because they've been on the burden, they're going to get into a sellout situation, no one's going to be able to buy them, and they're going to go bankrupt. So, at this session of the Assembly, we have a law on energy, so there will be plenty of stories about it, but just to mention, Minister, it is likely that this problem will come to you, along with those problems you received in 2002, 2003 and 2004 from privatisation. I would ask you, Minister, if you are in a position to pass your obligations in the House of Law, because you are one of the few ministers who is here all the time, to receive these men from Braničevsky County, it will not be difficult, and to explain what is going to happen to the privatisation of those four giants and what will happen to the restructuring of the Kostolc, or what will happen to 1,200 people after four years. I think it's in your best interest to do what's going to happen next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13508	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13509	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, it's a matter of technical intervention. I assume that the draft of this Article 3 has been amended by the Privatisation Act. In fact, it is a member who regulates who cannot be a buyer of capital or property and item 2 of point 1) in this text of the law that a buyer of capital cannot be a legal person who operates by majority social capital. Our proposal is that after the word "social capital" the words "as well as the majority state capital" are added, because the task of transition is to withdraw the state from the economy. If, however, it is not explicitly defined that the buyer of capital cannot also be a majority capital entity, it can enable state or public enterprises to have an active participation in privatisation, which is wrong, because these state-owned enterprises must be very soon in the privatisation process itself, i.e. state capital must be privatised, part of the capital, as well as social capital. Therefore, the amendment aims to correct, technically, this member proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13510	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13511	Now I'm going to make one aspect of this proposed amendment - if we stay on this concept that the social enterprise can't do anything about privatisation, then it's logical and that the state doesn't have to do anything. If a socialist, such as myself, were to ask what he would do in this Article 12, then he would delete the point 1) in which it is said - a domestic legal entity that operates on majority social capital cannot, therefore, have social capital in this privatisation. Why would I delete it? Because I think there are cases in life where a social enterprise buys a part of the social property of another social enterprise or by buying a whole small company can significantly strengthen its business ability and can become significantly more attractive to future customers. Take an example of the dislocated plants in relation to the headquarters of enterprises operating with the majority social capital, and there is a drive in the area of another municipality that should round up its business and its production programme. Then why should we prevent this company, as long as privatisation continues, from taking part in it. Finally, when the last time period for privatisation came, then it would be privatized, with all the social capital created in this way, and the buyer who would buy it would have much less reason to change the concept of businesses, to fire workers, to sell property, etc. Therefore, it would be a change that would essentially contribute to the acceleration of privatisation, although it does not seem so, but seems that social capital produces social capital etc., but the deadlines are still there to give and at some point there will be no social capital, but it will be differently conceived, differently drawn up and certainly more efficient in that business sense. If we shut down the state now, then we'll make another mistake. Who says the state can't buy part of social capital, and then, with the privatisation of a public enterprise owned by the state, privatise that capital. And why is that? It's economical and business-missing for me. Why don't you buy a public company, take an EPS, something that means a lot, and now it's using it as a service to fit into that EPS, and when the EPS is privatised, it's going to sell, and that's also the state that's going to have income, but it's probably going to achieve a better price, because the company is complete and it has what it's missing. I don't think this amendment should be accepted, and it would be best if the future change were precisely in that sense that the social enterprise could also participate in these privatisation procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13512	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13513	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Club, I have submitted an amendment asking that the draft law "unsettled until the day of the tender, or the application for participation in the auction" be deleted. To make it clear to both citizens and MPs, I will read you point 2). Thus, it is said: "a natural person, a legal person and the founder of a legal person, who, according to the privatisation entity, has an unsettled commitment until the day of tendering, or application for participation in an auction". The answer that I received from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is why the amendment is not adopted, says – given that, it is prescribed that participants in the privatisation process – so it is said further in the text – cannot be buyers of capital or property unless the commitments are met. The adoption of the proposed amendment would result in the Privatisation Act pre-sanctioning the behaviour of a secure trustee as a potential buyer of capital or property in the event of its obligation to a privatisation entity, etc. You can get into a situation where the deal (and since that "buldozer revolution" has gone all agreed and done) has taken over goods from one company of enormous value, that goods are not paid, that capital is not returned to the company, that goods are sold in the meantime and that money is placed in one of the banks. I don't mean these Dinkic banks, because I'm starting with the minister, so ultimately with the bank manager, and if you were drowning in Moravi, you'd better tell him -- here's your hands, not your hands, because they don't give but take. But there are banks that are capital, they give very high interest and that capital is fertilized and only from the fertilization of that capital the next day buys an enterprise. You can't, ladies and gentlemen, someone who owes the company that's being sold to participate in the purchase of that company. The substance of the amendment is this, and I believe that only by adopting this amendment will this Article 3 or point 2) of this article make sense. Those who owe the company sold, whether in the tender, or at auction, who are debtors, cannot be buyers until the day of sale. Because today's tender is being called, today it can pay back the debt today to appear as a buyer today, that is, tomorrow when the bidding takes place, to buy this company the one who, because of his unconscious business, because of his debt to the company, brought the company into a very invisible situation and thus maximumed its price. I'm afraid of what Branko Ćopić said - I know you, so I'm afraid because of this situation, we can bring the economy into a situation that buys great material values for small money and earns money in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13514	The People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic has the word, and the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13515	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment is good because it prevents abuse in the privatisation process. Those who rejected it did not think at all what possible ways of abuse in the privatisation process, because it seems to me that they were never in any serious business. There are several ways of dealing with certain legal persons, natural persons, etc. There are several ways of giving goods, depending on the length of business between legal persons, entities, from the quantities to be taken, are given some rebates, up to payment deadlines. It's enough to get the director and whoever wants to buy this company agreements on which time it will be to pay certain goods. It can be a year, no one defends, no law forbids, no longer. What happens next? When the goods are taken over, it's sold for shorter deadlines, because there's no mercy in private in terms of deadlines and rebates, it only looks at interests. When privatisation takes place, the goods are sold, charged, the money stands and waits. When the privatisation process begins with the same money that the debtor has bought the company, the subject of privatisation and when he becomes the owner he no longer has any obligation to anyone, and especially not to his business to reconcile those obligations. That is why the amendment stipulates that the debtor, on any basis, cannot participate in the privatisation process until he has met his obligations to the privatisation entity.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13516	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13517	First, Mr. Vlahovic's amendment. Perhaps that amendment should be adopted if it is considered, if it can be called, this historic moment. Then it's really justifiable. On the occasion of Mr Markovic's amendment, I am surprised that you did not accept this amendment and thus removed the legal and technical, legal and logical indifference of what you stated in point 2). So a buyer of capital or property cannot be a natural person, a legal person and the founder of a legal person who, according to a privatization entity, is the subject of sales. It's not a salesman, it's a commodity. He's got an unsettled commitment. In the very notion of maturity there are several specifics. The first is that there is a commitment and that the deadline for fulfilling the obligation has expired. All this other stuff you've listed is unnecessary, pleonasm. Obligation can be future, it can be reached. In any contractual relationship, there is a debtor and there is a trustee. Of course, the debtor can't buy his trustee, because there's a difference in the pressures. How could the one who owes to buy the one he owes? That would be about - come to the register to take bread, you don't have money, you take bread, and then you show up at the privatization to buy a self-service. I've been a little bananad, but by terms, that's it. So, the commitment is a familiar term. If in the privatisation process, that is, on the end of the auction day, when decided, someone owes the privatization entity, he cannot be a potential buyer. Anything else you've brought is unnecessary and complicated. What really amazes me, I think that the Constitutional Court will certainly say to this member and this intervention that it is unconstitutional, in point 3), Minister, you have stated that a buyer of capital or property cannot be the person with whom a contract on the sale of capital or property is broken because of the failure of contractual obligations. When you reduce this as an inability to a specific privatisation entity and generally to all privatisation entities, you are discriminating. That would be about like this -- a man who didn't pay for electricity or broke a power supply contract can never conclude a power supply contract in his life. That's impossible. You can use it as a criterion, as a criterion when deciding at the auction that the person who broke the contract doesn't have any bonity, but you excluded it from being able to report and be a customer. You have legally-technically misdefined what may have some justification. You could've put that in determining whether it's someone who's just a fake goes, logs in, closes the contract, then breaks up, etc., but you have to keep in mind and situations when a contract is broken without a buyer's guilt. You have a situation, to remind you (not to be specific because they object when the name and last name or name of a company is specifically spoken): the company participated in an auction, determined for the buyer, concluded the contract and the privatisation agency did not meet the contract, because after 10 months he had acquired possession, went into possession, not even thanks to the Agency, but thanks to the fact that the man broke the film and entered violently himself, and then someone called him for not giving a guarantee in five or six days, so he broke the contract. Who's to blame for the end of the contract? The one that the Agency hasn't fulfilled its obligation under contract? He couldn't even fulfill his obligation, because he didn't come into possession. You're disqualifying him so that he can never report in the privatisation process again. Take care. This should be taken as one of the criteria for auctioning, during the tender, when determining who might be the buyer, depending on what his offer is, what he offered, etc., but cannot be a disqualification condition. You've appointed him as something disqualifying a man.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13518	Thank you. Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13519	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as we have seen in this debate, Serbian Radical Party MPs have pointed to some of the anomalies we are meeting in this privatisation. It is certain that it lasts long, no one will dispute, followed by affairs and scandals, in which sometimes ministers and vice-presidents of our government participate. What's the third characteristic that we can accept is true, there's not some consistent policy that you can notice during this privatisation of ours. But it's not a problem that only monitors privatisation. You don't have any sectors of social life that were brought here under the Constitution and the law; national policy, and only then have laws. Here you have one reverse phenomenon – that the laws want to build a system, and I prefer to think that the present system is being broken down and that one legal chaos is being established. That's my impression. As right as I am, that's another thing. If we look at the government's behaviour in all of this, then one gets the impression that it is often a braker with its daily moves and makes it difficult to privatise quickly and justly. The braker is safe when he's chasing the owners of foreign capital that bought the banks here. A typical example is "Export-commercial Bank" and an attempt to ban it from working beyond all regulations and rules. On the other hand, when we talk about the inconsistencies of this policy, we have a situation where in this government at the outset it was said that all the malversions would be reconsidered, and then that course changed. If you're looking again at the area I come from, which is health care, what's done with the privatisation in health, we know what the situation is with the public sector and with public enterprises, what about restructuring, there's practically zero. When you have such a health care, where privatisation is not wanted to be implemented in a European, global way, then you have generated corruption and no wonder that OLAF is asking today what is going on at Sofreco and with our health projects. So, OLAF, and it's not Olav Esby, who's also in our country, and he's doing some work again, and then he's painting. Well, back to this story - privatisation. You have a non-consistent policy, you have a government where the health minister says in the daily newspaper "Dnevnik" two weeks ago – we are not a capitalist country. Here, Mr. Secretary here, it would be nice if he told us what the system is here, we were taking off our coat of arms with a star and a five-pointer, so let's give it back if we don't mind. Says the Minister - we are a country in transition. If it's a transition, the economic shape that's in the country, okay, but I still think we're a capitalist country and we're trying to do it and we're sure as hell going to be. In the same government you have one such statement and it will be one brake of privatisation and what we want. Let's go back to Article 5. Article 13 provides that payment funds cannot be in bonds on the basis of unpaid foreign exchange savings issued to natural persons. We believe that this member should be deleted for two reasons. This will speed up privatisation, allow more players to appear; you said so yourself, now other non-attractive enterprises. In this way, you will also allow these unattractive enterprises to be purchased by someone, if they have an interest. On the other hand, you will allow equality for citizens and individuals who, on the basis of these bonds, are old foreign exchange savings damaged in the previous period of time. By doing so, you will admit that this country will treat them equally, that I am not talking about those huge propaganda actions when you speak – the state is now returning 100 euros. Make it possible for them to be included in an equal way and thus prove that you are for the fair return of the old foreign currency savings. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13520	Thank you, Mr. Momchilov. The word has a folk MP Zoran Krasic, then a National MP, Momir Markovic, then Mr. Aleksandar Djordjevic and Stevanovic. Set up a sequence.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13521	Mr President, before I move specifically to the amendment concerning Article 5, I will draw the attention of the Minister and the public that it is a real shame that no one has submitted an amendment to Article 4. How did you calculate this damage charge? The auction is practically a public call, a public promise. How do you conduct this discrimination? Just two sentences, to show you that members 12a and 12b are intruding into the foundations of the constitution of the Republic of Serbia. They can't survive. Let me move on to Article 5. Article 13 The proposal for a privatisation law is completely unnecessaryly regulated as a means of payment in the privatisation process. I have to say, the Payment Law regulates what payment means. The law on securities of value also regulates the means of payment. You are now entering here completely unnecessaryly in the debate, to say what it can be a means of payment, bonds of old foreign exchange savings in terms of maturity, because it is reportedly someone in your ministry is assessing what kind of situation it will be if someone buys out those bonds with some big discount, that he will unfairly earn big money. You forget the basic thing: the state is a bond issuer based on old foreign currency savings. She set deadlines for the payment of these bonds, all privatisation funds go to the state, and the state has bonds for old foreign currency savings obligations to the holders of those bonds. You now have one closed system and now someone in the privatisation process says – you have a bond, but we do not recognise it, because it has not arrived, but anunities reach 2017. You cannot devalue the Charter of Values Act with this law and the law which regulates the return of old foreign currency savings in the way of the issue of bonds. Then the government doesn't run a consistent policy. The Ministry of Privatisation is haunting and drilling the Ministry of Finance and the banking system of our country and disrupting the perspective of the Republic of Serbia. It's politically unacceptable. That's the first and the big problem. It is unconstitutional that, depending on the maturity of the annuity on the charge, you are discriminating with securities of value. We don't have the authority to do that. You had to make sure that didn't happen, just before you regulated the matter with this member -- what is the means of payment in privatisation. Due to some future members, I would only ask you, since you have not yet put aside the Company Act, the second day I potential, Article 400b says – the buyer of social, i.e. state capital or property acquires property over that capital or property and the payment of the sale price. (Secretary representative: 45%) This is yet to come. The payment of the sale price is also considered to be a payment of the sale price to a foreign exchange account for a special purpose, especially when the sale price is paid in wars, auctions, the buyer is entitled to a payment of 45% of the sales price. If you are still in the positions of this provision of the Company Act, then this provision does not give you the right to devalue the importance of an old foreign exchange bond. Respect the state. Respect those bonds. If you give a proper estimate of capital, there's no taking down capital, as we've heard it can be 1:50, then those bonds that come to the bill later help the state. We fought in both this and that assembly to make these bonds of old foreign savings a means of paying in the privatisation process. Don't turn this around and devalue it like this. When you point to the maturity of the annuity on charge, then it's not a means of payment. It's a record of value. You're worried about someone with a big discount today for bonds that come in 2017 to collect maybe 40 or 50% of the discount to buy it. Why do you care about that? That's what the Treasury needs to worry about. That's the ultimate payer of the commitment. You are now in the privatisation process practically holding back privatisation by allegedly protecting something. From what? If you recognize the discount, then you have to admit the discount in an indirect manner. You can't defend something that's completely in the second law through this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13522	The word has a folk MP, Momir Markovic, and Branislav Stevanovic, then Aleksandar Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13523	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at one point in time, in the absence of its own foreign exchange funds, the state used foreign exchange savings for investment purposes, so that from that moment on, it had no foreign currency to return to the citizens. A similar relationship is also with the loan for Serbia's rebirth, the state has issued bonds; it is called bonds, because it obliges the state to return those funds to whoever invested them in those banks, which Dinkic destroyed. So if someone who owns the bond, so the owner of the receipt that the state owes him, shows up at the auction, in the tender and says, I have the bonds, you owe me so much, I want us to sort of beat that debt, at least part of that debt, by giving me a asset or part of that asset, a factory or part of that factory you're selling now, here's the money, you don't have to pay me back from 2005 to 2017, let that receipt stand with you. The law on bond relations between private persons is very nice and clearly regulated. I understand that one minute the state, not leading the household policy, has given, say, two-thirds of the loans for Serbia's rebirth and a good part of the foreign savings to one family, which was tasked with raising an autonomous province, to make 75 factories, and I mean, specifically, Karic, the SPP or the PPS, as this new firm is called, because it's not a political party, it's a company. He poured out 75 foundation stones, spent money at the BK bank, buying Mobtel and thus gaining enormous wealth, and of all the 75 factories he was supposed to raise there, only one was raised in Vitomirica near Peća, which made mailboxes; she worked for two years and then closed. I understand, but it's the state's fault it happened. It's not the one whose assets were in the bank, it's not the one who gave the loan for Serbia's rebirth to the state, and it's not the one whose assets have been available for years. The state is a liability, the state has to pay that money back once. I don't see why the state wouldn't pay off the property of the capital that sells that money. I think that this amendment should be adopted and I think that many things, at least as far as privatisation is concerned, will go better, because for many companies that are non-interesting bond owners, they will have an interest in taking them and eventually bring them back to life.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13524	The word has been given by MP Branislav Stevanovic, and then by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13525	Ladies and gentlemen, since I am a member of the Privatisation Committee, and there have been a lot of cases with us on the Committee, which we have discussed, the very way of paying and paying off the businesses that have been purchased. Namely, I'd like to make an example of "Hempra" and "Gorice," which are really extreme criminal cases. Let's say, the case of the Hempra, which is here in the Terrace, downtown, a magnificent large facility over 2,000 square meters. In the beginning, the buyer broke the contract by selling out about 200 square meters on the ground floor and with the same money, for a wonderful miracle, paying off a complete building. It's been discussed more than once at our committee's session and it's one of the typical examples of criminal privatisation with us. After that, no one, not even the Ministry, advertised. Mr. Minister Bubalo wasn't in that position at the time. I think it was Mr... (President: Martian. ) The Martian was then, it is now less important; worse, it is the source of the DSS. Thank you for the information, Mr. President. The second example is also drastic, and that's Gorica. A lot of people know, we used to trade in these stores, we bought groceries, there's a lot of good facilities. It's similar, it's almost the same way – the buyer has estranged several bars and has paid off a dozen and more places with two bars. The board has repeatedly appealed to the Ministry to prevent it, that crime. However, the judiciary is corrupt, and as it is, nothing has been done. That's what's left of the day-to-day as an unsolved case. We have other examples like that, but there was also a case called "Dive" in Valjevo, where we had to appeal to the Ministry to intervene, because the man was going to sell the locals serially without any authority and without anyone's permission. The police had to intervene to prevent further crime. When it comes to the previous point, Article 3, what I'm saying is that we have a banal example in Doljevac; when it comes to customers and how to select customers should be watched, of course... We have a case where a jazzman, a man who organizes concerts and jazz festivals, bought a butcher shop, a butcher; he was already interested in doing this and doing some work and reselling property. There's a lot of fertile land here, and there's no such thing as objects. He was in trade, and he had no intention of continuing this same activity, although he brought us some prospectuses on the Committee, and in fact, it was from some other companies, etc. He had no intention at all. It is very important for us and for the further development of our country and for the economy that whoever buys the company is obliged to continue this same activity, not to change the performance, as we have here in the city centre. Many who bought a number of companies changed their business and reselled their facilities. I wanted to say something about how to buy, and they know it best in the Ministry. So, those interested buyers who were going to buy businesses usually get into some business arrangements, and that's more fictitious. So there's really no business at all, but it's sort of artificially in charge that after that same customer shows up to buy that same company, supposedly under the protection of that and that debt, that in the end, in a few much smaller wars, the same company gets free of charge. As for the next members, when we comment on further privatisation and its flow, of course there will be more words about all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13526	The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic. You'll talk about the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13527	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, colleague of Dr Pai Momchilov, MP of the SRS, submitted an amendment to Article 5. The draft law amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act, which clearly explains why we are asking for Article 5 to be deleted. The proposed provisions place natural persons who own securities of value, broadcast by the Republic of Serbia, in an unequal position, and accept the proposed solution further slows down the slow privatisation process anyway. In an opening statement, the minister said one of the main objectives of this proposal is to amend and supplement the Privatisation Act to speed up the privatisation process. That is why this Article 5 should be deleted, because this member prescribes that payments cannot be, for example, bonds of old foreign exchange savings that did not arrive on the day of the sale of capital. We believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia should accept this amendment and I hope that the MPs in the voting day will support the amendment submitted by the MP of the Serbian Radical Party, Mr Paja Momcilov, because this Article 5 is contrary to what the minister said in his explanation and what will slow the privatisation process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13528	Thank you. The People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic has the word, and the People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13529	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a little illogical that this amendment of the SRS is not accepted by this government, which at least declares it works in the interests of the citizens. So it's undeniable that the state is in an earlier period, and for that we can't blame this government, it has wronged its citizens. The foreign exchange funds were used by non-intentional, i.e. could not repay to the citizens what was guaranteed to them when these funds were given to the state banks at the time. To sort out the problem, bonds issued by the Republic of Serbia have been issued, with some maturity deadlines. Regardless of the time limit, these bonds are already on the market, they are there, traded on them. Someone with funds may be planning to buy it in the long run, so when it comes time to collect those bonds to collect them and make some kind of profit. One such member reduces the value of these bonds currently on the market. It decreases because it is not only the deadlines that determine how much one bond is worth, but also the offer and demand on the market. By accepting this amendment, bonds issued on the basis of old foreign exchange savings, whose maturity is in five or more years, will begin to be an interesting subject of purchase. And those owners, or individuals, because those persons are concerned, citizens who are damaged by some poor policy will be able to charge more in the short term, and in this they should seek an answer. The bonds were broadcast by the Republic. For her, in principle, except when she has to pay off the effectiveness, means the money she may not have, it doesn't matter when that bond comes, if in the privatisation process she's used to buy some economic operator, the subject of privatisation. So by accepting such an amendment, the state probably wouldn't have any harm. Citizens who own these bonds would benefit anyway, because those bonds they make in five and more years will be much easier to sell, and at a much more favourable price than they are right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13530	Thank you. Here's a word for Natasa Jovanovic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13531	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the problem with the foreign exchange roles of our citizens in Serbia was the moment when, by chance, Mr Markovic's last name was wrongly known. Reformist Ante Markovic picked up all Serbian foreign exchanges and took them to his brothers in Croatia and Slovenia, and what kind of reformist he was and what kind of desolation he had left afterwards in Serbian banks and in our economy, we also witnessed the day-to-day. But this amendment, submitted by Dr Paja Momcilov, is in fact the essential position of the Serbian Radical Party since the introduction of the multi-party and since our first proposal for a privatisation project in the country, means from the moment we had the Markovic privatisation law, which was subsequently stopped with the support of the DS, so nothing has happened for many years. From that moment on, we're in favour of the state's being able to execute what's called the so-called state. Overcoming debts based on old foreign savings by giving opportunities to those who had (and, you know, we can't bid to what amount, there are people with huge monetary stakes) of foreign currency in Serbian banks. Today we have completely devastated banking. We'll talk about it on the next item of the agenda, but it's interesting, Mr. Minister, that you're not showing any good will to get out of that infamous plan. Because, you know, if the banks are destroyed, even though we're going to tell Dinkic a lot later, when that point comes to the agenda, if the citizens are witnesses of him inventing the National Savings Bank and that the old foreign savings are paid only and exclusively through the National Savings Bank, why you're additionally punishing them, and you're not giving them the opportunity to exploit what they once had a hard time earning, single out and put into bank accounts, which were destroyed by Markovic's time and beyond. You know, it's easy for God-loving Karic. The man, apart from being rich on the plight of the people – and the right to tell you something about him and on the other hand is wrong, because when he was able to say the night before last on one of the televisions with a national frequency "I'm getting nicer and better, I'm getting younger and younger, and I don't know everything falls any problem," you know, then something's wrong with him, and other people from that profession would have to deal with him, professionally in the area, psychology and psyche of a man at all -- angry with money, from enjoying all the loans he's gained from the rebirth of Serbia, from kidnapping in all ways. But when you know that one such Bogoljub Karic, who is not only more beautiful and beautiful, younger and younger, is really something strange happening to him at least, except that he is one of the leading robbers of the people and the state, why you punish people who are intently, and after being deceived, that they are interested in one of the enterprises, and that they were once in possession of old foreign savings. As Mr Krasic told you nicely about it - their market price is better, on the stock market, don't worry about it. That's what the Treasury needs to worry about. It is obvious that you do not want to object to colleagues who are leading other resors, because each of you in Kostunica's government is looking at your own at it; this party has received this portfolio, this one, you are looking at what yours has left for you in the legacy of a Martian, or DSS, and only within that you observe all future economic developments. That's certainly not good. It just shows that not only do you not want to criticize each other, but you don't know what one does, but what the other does and how it should go on at all, and it would be better for business entities and for those who want to get home to find someone to buy their factory at a normal, market price, to find solutions for their troubles.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13532	Is there anyone else under this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Vlahovic, and Mr Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13533	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of the Assembly, dear colleagues from the Ministry, the DS has tabled an amendment to Article 7 concerning the way businesses are sold in restructuring. Therefore, the amendment of the Law provides for the final position of Article 7: ′′In privatisation entities where the restructuring of the Capital Sales Agency, i.e. assets, public tendering or public auctioning was carried out. ′′ Given that it is large social systems, we propose that the only way to sell assets, i.e. capital in these companies, is to be a method of public tendering, not a method of public auctioning, and I must say that I understand the proposal's insistence, given that future situations will likely occur in the restructuring of large social systems, among other things, create a whole series of individual business businesses legally-rounded entities and that they will be different sizes. However, it is generally necessary to accept the concept that large social systems in restructuring must be sold through a public tender method, and I think it was better that this last position is not in this article at all and that the Agency is determined according to the chosen method of sale, depending on the size and other criteria that are initially described in the first members of this law. Therefore, we propose that the method of public tender is exclusively used in the sale of large social systems, and if there is a greater number of smaller legally round entities, this is already about independent entities, and it can be applied to another member of this law that allows public auctions to be sold. It is very important in principle to say that large companies are sold through a public tender. Why does it matter? For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, which are large companies in the investment sense are the most exhausted enterprises, which are the key criteria in the tender process of precisely finding a buyer who is able to raise business and financial performances of enterprises, as well as qualifications concerning the minimum social programme, because, as you know, there are major problems in large enterprises, which relate to the economic and technological surplus of employees. You can't do that through a public auction method, you can do that through a public tender method. Therefore, we propose that after the word "public tender" be put to the point, and all words are deleted until the end of this last position in Article 7.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13534	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13535	Well, of course, I immediately concluded that he would not come up with the main problem of this article. You see, Article 7. The draft law concerns the intervention carried out in Article 19. The Privatization Act. The point of point 1 is said if the Agency estimates, but there are no criteria on which it can assess that it is not possible to sell through a public tender or public auction, but is said to be an estimate. The Privatisation Agency's assessment, if they put a finger on their head and conclude, is possible for everyone to go into restructuring. Any company can go into restructuring. It depends on the assessment, not on how many times sales were tried through public tenders and public auctions, so it failed to sell. The second flaw is that you put these new points in, so you said, status changes. Can someone explain to me what a status change in the social enterprise is? Then you made an even bigger mistake. It shows – change of legal form. Social enterprises are not governed by the Company Act, but by these modest provisions of the Company Act. Article 421. The company law says – decisions on status changes and changes in the form of enterprises; you say here – changes in legal forms; these are two different concepts. How can a social enterprise change statusably? The Company Act can't, but you made something up. Point 3), which is all the measures in the restructuring process, so you wrote in point 3 – discharge of debt in general or partly for the settlement of creditors from the funds achieved from the sale of capital or property of the privatisation entity. So, the trustee wrote off a claim to the company in restructuring, with what's conditional, but when that company is sold, I'll make some sense of it. Please, this is how you deny an institution of discharge from Article 344. The law on bond relations, and for that you have no valid reason. Finally, what is directly covered by Mr. Vlahovic's amendment, where he rightly asks a theoretical question. If you took a social enterprise to restructure, to train it to privatize, then, by the logic of things, that sale should go through a public tender, not just for investment and strategic partnership, but for paying immediately. If it goes through a public auction, it has six years to pay off the purchase price, and it is illogical that someone goes after restructuring to auction sales, and it is restructured to sell as soon as possible. So there's some reason for this amendment, but the whole member has no reason. That's the problem. Status change of social enterprise, change of legal form. How can you make a change in legal form here? That's impossible. It's absolutely impossible to execute. It is arbitrary to determine whether the company will go into restructuring because there is no tangible indicator. It is not stated here that the management of the social enterprise did not take action to carry out an estimate of the value of capital, did not create a prospectus, avoids privatisation, avoids some activities that are in favour of privatisation, has failed one auction, has failed, and then has to be restructured. No, he says, "Assessment." What estimate? From floor III and floor II of the Ministry. This is why we're gonna have a "Sartida" situation. The state takes over the debts, doesn't settle down trust, and then someone comes in for 23.25m euros, buys it, and whoever sold it after a year says it's the most successful company. All social enterprises in Serbia would be successful if debts were paid off. Any company, write off his debts, take over the government's debts, get some capital in and through the recapitalisation, it'll be a successful company. Unfortunately, these changes don't solve these problems, they're fogging us.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13536	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13537	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have proposed that Article 9 of the Law be deleted and that I must give a real explanation for this proposal. So I'm not going into the economic integrity of Article 9. The key objection that comes from our side, and it is extremely well-intentioned, is the possible opposite of this member of the Law with other laws, and above all I mean the Law on Liabilities, the Law on Business Society, the individual laws governing the business of certain public enterprises, as well as other state institutions. What's this about? Article 9 speaks in one place about the institution of mandatory discharge of the debt to the State's trustee and states who is the state's trustee. In other words, therefore, this means that regardless of the independence of the debtor-trustee relationship, which is regulated by the institution of a contract between debtors and creditors, this law requires a different treatment of this debt-trust relationship, and thus the contract institution is destroyed. The contract together with the property is one of two or three, since the market is the third, therefore, three key pillars of the market economy, which we stand for and which transition should lead us to. Of course, it's economically celibate to do something like this, because the discharge of debts creates a real chance that large social systems are privatized to be sold, but I think this problem can be expressed in that legal respect. To return for a moment to discuss my predecessor, counterpart Krasic of the SRS parliamentary group. Indeed, there are too many provisions that may be suspicious of the aspect of constitutionality and the aspect of conflict with other legal regulations. It seems to me that one of the key principles of the previous law, the original law, was the principle of flexibility and that, among other things, the need for certain parts of the process to be regulated by regulations rather than by law. That is why, among other things, many parts were removed from the law, of course, not materially, precisely that for one sensitive process, which is transitional, and therefore time-limited, for which you cannot predict in advance how it will take place in every detail, you can make weekly adjustments if these corrections are necessary. On the other hand, by entering all these details, you are opening the issue of constitutionality and legality. I don't think it's good, no matter what this document is, to appeal wherever it is suspicious of the provision of lex specialis derogat generals, because that provision can be based on the essential, basic basis of this law, which is whether social property must be privatized within a defined and limited time limit. One more sentence, it is much better to achieve this effect by activating the Law on the bankruptcy procedure, which we have discussed here, because then the question of the legality of the procedure and the obligation, conditionally stated, layoffs or write-offs would not even be asked. So, to be clear, the DS parliamentary group will not condition the adoption of this law by adopting this amendment. We believe that economic integrity is obvious, but we warn that whoever proposes the law, the Government, will have problems interpreting constitutionality and with numerous objections that can have their legal basis in this article and in other mentioned members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13538	The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic, and then by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13539	Of course, the SRS parliamentary group did not submit an amendment because we believe this amendment covered what we intended to say about Article 20. The law and this Article 19a. In Article 19a, point 1.a said that the restructuring decision contained a way of restructuring. That's ridiculous. There's no telling what's gonna happen or who's gonna trust or what they're gonna do. That's all after being rewritten in Article 20. Please, when proposing a law or changing a law has to be seen in an area, other regulations that regulate that area must be observed. Who can say that the Republic Fund for PIO is a state-owned trustee? The Republic Fund for PIO is a fund where contributions to the PIO are paid, funds are provided and the beneficiaries of the rights under the PIO are paid. The State, as a guarantee, intervenes only if there is a lack of funds in that fund, i.e. if expenditure is higher than regular income. The PIO fund can't be a state-owned trustee, because by definition, it's a para-state body, for now, and in the future it's going to be quite something else. Furthermore, he says, in the process of restructuring the privatisation entity, the public company, and if there is any claim to the economic operator, it is a claim based on the delivery of a service. It's a classic bond, it's a classic commercial relationship. Furthermore, the tax administration; it is not a bond relationship, but a variant of public relations. The company is a taxpayer, unless it paid, and the state is a trustee, and that's an incorrect expression. Here it's all messed up and said, so it's the state's creditors, they're legally required to fire the debt. So here I mean the subject of privatisation. The issue of discharge of debt could be resolved by changing all these individual laws, it could be regulated by the Banking Procedure Act. It's so-called. Legal discharge, which is not contractual, depends not on the trustee's will, but on the law. You put it into this law to unload, relax the privatisation entity that goes into restructuring to sell. Does it not seem to you to be moving capital, therefore, the state and those who give up theirs, the one who buys, buys for much less money; what they gain for the time being, and when the market conditions change, it will grow a little more. You had to take care of it. See further nonsense, which is the final position – if the other credentials (meaning these commercial ones) do not release the debt to the privatisation entity, the terms and manner of settlement of their claim are determined in the agreement (contract) with the buyer of the capital of the privatisation entity. The Privatisation Entity's creditors are urging the future buyer to conclude a contract to regulate the claim. You know, everything can be put on paper, but it can't be in the law. If you really want that will that you have to put into law, take a little care of it, there are other laws, which much better and more precisely regulate this matter. Don't play with the Bond Relations Act. The effect of yours and this kind of restructuring will be devastating for the state. This is about a sea of unconstitutional provisions. Take care, as the consequences of the non-constitution established by the Constitutional Court may be painful for the privatisation entity, i.e. for the employees, for the state and for the future buyer.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13540	The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13541	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the essence of these amendments to the Law on Privatisation is precisely in these few members, and among other things in this Article 9. We have two different approaches here: one is Mr. Vlahovic's approach, the other is Mr. Krasic's approach, which I generally agree with and I just don't know how to define myself according to those two attitudes. I must remind Mr Vlahovic that by deleting Article 9, he remains in Article 20, and in Article 20, there are provisions that are almost the same or similar to those proposed in Article 9. I don't even agree with the solutions in Article 20, but I think the solutions in Article 9 are actually better. It is precisely in this Article 20 that it is possible to sell the company through a public tender and public auction after the restructuring process is completed. Earlier, Mr Vlahovic asked to delete Article 7, which referred to Article 19(1) but in Article 20, it says - when the restructuring of the entity is completed, it must be sold through a public auction or a public tender. I also think it's a better public tender, but since the Agency has the right to decide which method then it's not so controversial. What's the matter with me? I understand the state's decision to fire and, if you want, write off the debt to the company. That might be some kind of justice. Why? Because all privatisation revenues go to the Republic budget, or all the funds, all the money, that's the income of the Republic's privatisation budget. If so, then the state has a right, and at this point I think it has a real need, to write these debts off, because it can't charge them, and companies that, roughly, in the structure of their debts, over 75% owe the state are not interested in selling to anyone. What's so controversial about this part? They're slow, these so-called. small commercial creditors with 10, 15, 20 or 25% claims. They are said to be able to discharge the debt; if a selling price is reached in accordance with the size of the entity's obligations, the obligation will be settled, and if the selling price is below that amount will be proportionately settled or if they do not release the debt should be agreed with the future buyer. I support Mr Krasic here, because I think it will be very difficult to negotiate with the future buyer. Why would someone who has no obligation to make a deal with the trustee be willing to make a deal with him? For me, that's the problem. Maybe the best thing would be a solution, I just don't know how much this country would cost, if the state of privatisation were to settle those little creditors, but first they would, and then themselves. That would be logical, because then little trusts with their claims would come into some equal position. Why? Because the issue of discharge can be settled in another way, as was the case in Article 20. The law Mr. Vlahovic proposed in the Assembly. So the creditors could fire the debt, they had that possibility, they had no obligation, and there's the difference. When I say "confidential", I mean both big and small creditors. And in this case, if the state has decided, and for a reason has decided to write off debts, then it cannot put small creditors in that category and then these problems arise from the Law on Bond Relations, the issue of constitutionality, etc. In particular, it was controversial and at that time and now, only not in the same members, the provision to suspend all procedures for forced collection in enterprises where restructuring was started. In Mr Vlahovic, the law provided for this in Article 20 – to suspend enforcement procedures, and now it is provided for in Article 32. Interestingly, there is also anticipating erasing by the Democratic Party, although these provisions were here. You also suggested, Mr. Vlahovic, that Article 32 be deleted, and I agree with you, that's interesting in this whole story, I just can't agree, it seems you forgot what was in the previous provisions. After all, you can explain that if I didn't understand something good, but it is true that it was proposed by the Democratic Party to delete Article 32. The amendment of the Act, which provides that the procedure for enforcement and forced collection is to be suspended by the company, which was also provided for in Article 20, as it was true that auctioning was possible to sell the company that was restructured. I agree with both Mr. Vlahovic's second story, but it is only a matter of consistency and accurate reading of the Law that was previously adopted in the Assembly, with these same remarks.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13542	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13543	As I expected, Mr. President, that you would give me your word on this amendment, I did not answer for the replica, but I would use only one sentence to say that in part this is exactly what Mr. Jovan Todorovic was talking about. It is true that I have proposed an amendment to delete Article 32, but it is not true that there was a binding provision in the previous law for the sight of forced enforcement. As you know, the Agency for Forced Implementation and Forced Charge, which was, and I think it is now with the National Bank of Serbia, did not respect this recommendation provision, precisely because it was not binding. And, because it was not binding, it cannot be compared to the provisions established by this law and which are binding, and I will find it really interesting to see how the Force Payment Agency will behave now in this case, after the adoption of this law, because the interpretation was just the other way around. I'd really like to not be misunderstood from this pay phone, I'm not talking about economic integrity for a moment. Yes, it is economical to write off all debts to large social systems, as this will allow faster and easier privatisation. But what I can't understand is that one of the same parliamentary groups who, when in opposition, had so many objections to the possibility of firing debts in the privatisation process, calling, quite rightly, for violating other legal provisions, and quite rightly alerting the dangers that could arise if, possibly tomorrow, anyone asks for an interpretation of the Constitutional Court and bringing down these provisions. How can these same provisions be found today in the amended Privatisation Act? Once again, it is economical to write off this debt. Please, if you have opted for economic co-existence, then, since there are still some interesting amendments later, which some other parliamentary groups have proposed, maintain that principle of economic integrity until the end, and not just over one segment of the companies that are in the privatisation process. So much for that. Article 10 of this Act provides that, if the State Commissioner and the other Party, the entity in the privatisation process, i.e. restructuring, shall not agree on the level of the claim, in that case, to establish an arbitration council consisting of one representative of the entity in restructuring, one representative of the State Trustee, or a specific state enterprise or institution, and is a third representative of the Ministry of Finance. The finance minister needs to arbitration, to be head of the arbitration commission. I think it's completely wrong, the finance minister cannot possibly be independent in his court, because at the same time he is the one who, among other things, indirectly represents the state's trustee. We suggest that the chief or president of that arbitration council be a representative of the Chamber of Commerce, because that is something that is quite logical and justifiable. The Chamber of Commerce is the one that, for its members, has on the one hand and an economy that is in social or private property, and on the other, there are members that are public enterprises. Let's let someone who's really impartial in the arbitration council determine what level of claim that is. We also proposed, and this refers to Article 20d in the same article, so a whole series of new members are added, that after the word "trustors" the words "partially or" are added, and after the word "public tender" the point and the words are deleted until the end. This first refers to the institution's obligation to discharge the debt where we say "partially or in general", but, of course, if there is a volunteer, which is regulated by the Law on Liabilities, rather than the obligation to discharge the debt. I again appeal not to the principle of economic integrity but to the principle of legalism, the principle that will not allow the provisions to be laid down tomorrow constitutionally. As for the second, public tender, this is exactly what Mr. Todorovic mentioned a little bit and said that we were not consistent in the fact that only the tender procedure sells companies in restructuring. On the contrary, we have been consistent and we have followed this entire law to the end. I understand economic overallity, but economic integrity can sometimes be contrary to other legal aspects, to other laws, and then something that is economically celibately obliterate from the Constitutional Court and then, after all, becomes economical. Once again, all this is resolved through bankruptcy procedures, but since the DS will not condition a final vote for the law by voting on the amendments it has submitted, because I think it would be at least counterproductive for our country, I say – be consistent with the principle of economic integrity and take over the discharge of debts by other companies, rather than just companies in the restructuring process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13544	Replica, Mr. Todorovic. So that there may be no ambiguity, you simply asked to be made clear to you by one vagueness of your attitude. You didn't ask her to do it in public. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13545	Just for the sake of precision, I'm one of the MPs who, when he says something from the pay phone, is behind it and I stand behind what I said was relevant to Article 20. The law Mr. Vlahovic proposed in this assembly. In order not to be unclear, in Article 20, now take the last position and the last position, let's say this provision, let's read together, Mr Vlahovic: ′′Privatisation entities in which restructuring is carried out are obliged to have capital, i.e. property, including capital converted according to point 1 of point 2) of this article, sell the method of public tendering or public auctioning. ′′ It's past time, you may have forgotten what it says in the law. I was against it back then. So much for consistency. Further: ′′In the course of the restructuring, trustees cannot take action for the purpose of forced collection of their due claims. ′′ Now this is in Article 32. You say it's deleted, and I say it's supposed to be fixed by that Article 32, because I suggested that amendment. You were wrong here, or you didn't listen to me well, or you forgot what it says in the law that you suggested. On the other hand, I'm also pushing for a public tender. I'm not going to say that you sold large companies to auctions, but there was a legal possibility, because, basically, restructuring only applies to large ones. That's what it was about. I didn't say any company was sold by auction and it belonged to the category of those who were restructured. There is something else here, Mr. Vlahovic, let me answer that – whether it is better to regulate things by law or, as is the last position of this member, to let the government decide on something that is much more important and is for discussion in this National Assembly. He says: "The government of the Republic of Serbia is closer to the regulation of the procedure and the way in which the privatisation entity is restructured. ′′ We had the fact that large enterprises were restructured by the government making decisions under the regulation, but not by law. She had the authority in law, and that's true, but the regulation is still a sublegal act. It is clear that it is the law that should determine the process of restructuring, in a way appropriate to the congregation's majority, as well as the need of these large enterprises. Mr. Vlahovicu, I was consistent, you forgot about it because you were not then, as a vast majority in this assembly, actually listening to what we of the opposition suggested. And then we came to the conclusion that you and many other ministers from the previous government had just proposed those solutions that we insisted on, but six months earlier or a year earlier. Just because they were from the SPS parliamentary group, and I must say from the SRS, many good amendments were then rejected and we today had the same consequences we have in this area. I am telling you, if this provision on the obligation to pay off the debt by the state existed in the 2001 Law, many companies would already be privatised and would not be destroyed to this extent; many jobs would be preserved here, and a republican budget full of revenue from the sale of these enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13546	Thank you. In accordance with Article 97(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation shall be as follows: Rules of Procedure, misread, please, Mr. Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13547	Wrong interpretation. So obviously when I spoke about the principle of flexibility it was not accepted in the best way or not enough level of understanding. What does the principle of flexibility mean? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Privatisation Act is a transit document, which has its limited fact. No country in Central Europe could initially predict what would happen in the process, which is a newspaper for each country in particular. If you regulate every part of the process by law, literally every step of the process, then you lose the principle of flexibility, and you cannot react at some point to appropriate phenomena, e.g. The understanding of this process by non-solid customers in such a way that they can reach some wealth overnight, which is not the opposite of the law, but simply is finding some hole in the law. As a result, it was necessary for one part of the process, which is not materially significant, to be regulated by regulations, including the Restructure Regulation. Look how the Assembly works. We will discuss these laws for a month and we will have a situation that probably not before half of April will vote on this law. In a month's or a process stands, if some anomalies are detected that can be regulated by regulations, or it changes by regulations, but you can't change the law. Then we would have a very slow procedure, a very slow process, which ultimately would not allow state institutions to intervene and prevent any abuse of this process. As for the potential... As you said about this pay phone, social enterprises and large social systems wouldn't be in this condition if the debt had been written off earlier. Social enterprises have been in social property all along, against which, if I understand correctly, you personally have nothing against, neither you personally nor the parliamentary group. They were neither private property nor state property, so that the state or any of the privates were torn apart. What is the effect of this process, the general privatisation process, you could see last year when, among other things, a fantastic growth in the volume of industrial production was achieved, primarily in those sectors that were privatised in the previous period. It's a fake. We can accept that fact one way or another, but that's a fact. Once again, there were no binding provisions for institutions in the previous law. So, the law doesn't say that the debt collection agency can't activate, I don't know, forced payment at an emergency execution. It didn't exist in the previous law. Of course, those who did not want and who were not obliged to respect such a thing, from those who had sued and received confirmation from a judicial execution, they used their right, regardless of the provision that stood in the Law. Therefore, I still claim to be as consistent as possible for this. If you noticed, when we were talking about a public tender and public auctions, I said – it is better that this attitude is not available and that the Agency is determined by size, because it is likely to come from a railway-transport company, which is not to be sold on the tender as a special legal person, or ′′Gosa tourist′′ from "Gosa", or some similar catering company that every major system has. Then there is no need to put this provision in place, when the previous provisions of the Law allow the Agency to assess, depending on the criteria, what should go to the tender, and what should be auctioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13548	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Todorovic's replica to be exposed to Mr. Vlahovic's Rules of Procedure. I appreciate your desire for the Assembly to be even more effective, so I hope you won't use the Rules of Procedure afterwards. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13549	I'm replicating Mr. Vlahovic's exposure. I don't think you're in shape today, Mr. Vlahovic. You've forgotten something again. Let me remind you. It is not the Socialist Party of Serbia that advocates the need to remain social property. You know that well. The first privatisations in this country were conducted precisely under the laws passed by the assembly's majority of the SPS. First, those were laws. You know what this is about, Mr. Vlahovic. You've leveled your social property with state property by law and then acted as the owner of that social property within the Privatisation Agency. So that's what we were up against, and today we are. He's not the Social Capital Agency, and he's acting like one, because she's the one who's selling him. Unfortunately, she and the buyer are the only ones who close the deal. That company that's being sold isn't even there at all, you don't ask anything. That's what I was talking about when you proposed the law in 2001. People, how are we going to sell something without asking something, and that something is a living, living man, living people, living production, they have their own organs. You close the contract between the customer and the agency, and the workers and the management and their management bodies ask nothing. There was a dispute between us and you. If you convince me today, or these people sitting here, that it is better to rule regulations than laws, then you will invent something new in political life and also in parliamentary life. I guess it's better for the MPs to discuss it, pass the law by majority of votes, and that law has to be respected by everyone. You now tell me here – yes, it was a provision in the law, but the Agency, which was in charge of forced payment, did not respect the law. (Alexander Vlahovic: You didn't understand me. Well, then explain to me what I didn't understand, but I'm just talking about wanting to be consistent. But because you're in opposition now, you're a little tangled up here. You're proposing changes that aren't what you wanted a year ago. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13550	Thank you. Here you are, Mr Krasic, following an amendment to article 10 submitted by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13551	Oh, my God, here's something we learned today. I didn't know there was this principle of flexibility, but, according to TV broadcasts, I saw the principle of how to escape from the flag. That was the time when there was some restructuring, so a broken car, the ministers in the race, that was the principle of saving your head. You've easily entered what you call a restructuring operation. It's completely unnecessary to do this arbitrarily. Look, you form an arbitration council after you've legally ordered the discharge of your debts and then you're thinking about a situation where a debtor and a trustee can have some kind of dispute. If the debtor and the trustee can have any dispute, then this law does not require legal write-offs. It doesn't make sense. As soon as you throw in the arbitration council, then you don't believe in legal write-offs. These are the logical problems that follow all the changes that concern restructuring. Then you burden us with the composition of the arbitration council. And, of course, one MP tried to correct something illogical, so that it wouldn't be the result of 2-1 by law enforcement in the arbitration council. It's here by definition 2:1. The minister and the state trustee, as you call him, of course it's one side, and this other trustee, of course, is in the minority. Then you're showing senselessness and how pointless it is to throw in a mandatory discharge debt. What scares me even more is that it's a release under a certain condition. So, the discharge of debt exists, the company goes into some restructuring, and when it's privatized, whoever fired the debt can collect some of their claims. What's that? Either take over the operation to write off all debts or find a way for these claims to be recorded, frozen and become State claims. I have to tell you, there's almost no difference, except in action, between these banks in bankruptcy and liquidation and the social enterprises you're restructured. At the 4th point of the agenda, you say – the state also takes over from the end-user of the equity credit. And here the state, no, we write off through state creditors, but if a good price is achieved, then the government trustee will charge something. What's he gonna charge? Nothing. Sartid case. A successful example of "Sartida" in this way will be applied to all other companies if you find a strategic partner. Then this is completely illusory, whether the auction, whether or not a public tender, does not drink water. It's about throwing some fog again. There's one part we rightly didn't want to cover the amendments, which concerns Article 21. For example, you say – The Agency is developing a restructuring programme. In Article 23, new position 2, you say - the restructuring programme referred to in Article 1 of this Article shall be adopted by the competent authority of the privatisation entity. A restructuring decision shall be taken by the Agency. So, the Agency's decision, the Agency's programme, and the program is adopted by the privatisation entity. What if the privatization entity won't adopt? As we had with that Action Fund Act, it says - a written statement. Well, what if it doesn't come out in writing? What if a representative of the state does not make a written statement, should he suffer from that economic operator whose actions, by some means, are in possession of the Action Fund? You know, if you're writing a regulation you have to have some program, you have to have some vision of what your ultimate goal is, what means, what methods you want to achieve. But the problem with our privatisation in Serbia is that no one knows what the objective of privatisation is. Should we define the new owner? Is there no more social property? Should money be taken to cover social funds? Should I provide some planetary justice? Should we provide conditions for new employment? No, there is no clear and recognizable goal here, but there is a controlled chaos and an affair over any privatisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13552	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Since the representative of the proposings and the Privatisation Committee accepted this amendment, with the correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is legally possible, I find that this amendment, with correction, has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic. He's giving up. I thank you. He's giving up the amendment. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13553	We have submitted this amendment only to show what the legislator is doing. Well, you see it refers to Article 38. The law. They change attitude 2, meaning: ′′The public invitation is published by the Agency no later than 15 days before the public auction day, and the epochal change of the promoter is: instead of 15 days later′′ – ′′at the latest 30 days;". We say by amendment – at the earliest 15 days, only to show that there is some dialectic between ′′the latest and ′′the former′′; between 30 and 15 days there is also some dialectic. And here in a refusal, that is, because of some attitude that the amendment is not accepted, the government points out positive experiences from the current privatisation procedures and says that it is necessary to replace the ′′at least 15 days later with ′′at least 30 days. That's what our government does, as it turns, changes, directly prepares, shows it revolutionary, this depends on privatisation, now it's going to make money. I can't account for how much money they're gonna get. And our privatisations either stand, or they're unfair, and they're all with some affair. And, the affair is not affected at the latest, not at the earliest, not 30 or 15, but is influenced by other factors – how to devalue capital, how to provide the privileged with the purchase of that capital, preferably without employees, at no great cost. If he can't bid or auction, then he'll go bankrupt. If he can't even go into bankruptcy, then epochal restructuring with write-offs and claims, but still unsuspected, and when debt cuts are re-refused, and no one takes care of what happens to the balance sheets of those creditors who are supposed to repay their debts. No one cares what their balances will be. Is that how you make room to inject on our market those money stored as a foreign reserve, of two, three or four billion, as far as you're talking, and quite unwarranted. In a valuable sense, space must be created to make money, to make it appear as value and as money mass. Because, you know, everything that comes as a foreign exchange must have its own cash equivalent, and in order to keep value, foreign exchanges are withdrawn by prescribing large foreign exchange reserves, mandatory reserves of banks, and now it is likely that monetary space is being created through value to inject that money, to change the form of owners, and hopefully, within the fourth point of the agenda, to return our money as foreign investments in the economy of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13554	Anyone else want to talk about Mr Krasic's amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13555	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DS has submitted an amendment to Article 20, which reads to be deleted in point 4 of point 2. What's this about? This member of the law sets out the reasons why the Privatisation Agency will end the contract with the buyer. It states, in my opinion, a whole series of legitimate reasons, but for one, I think it is absolutely unwarranted; I will read it: "does not provide continuity in the performance of the registered activity for which the privatisation entity was established". Why am I saying this? We are witnessing that a large part of the companies that are now privatised mainly by the auctioning method are enterprises that have matured to go bankrupt, where production activity in the previous period has not even been carried out, where the level of destruction of economic performance is indeed inconceivable, so that sometimes the question arises whether it may not have entered into the strategic crisis, whether it makes sense to insist on new customers to maintain the continuity of production of something that does not exist in the market. Because the question arises whether a complete change in the activity of the company can bring it back to life. For example, you have a whole series of abandoned halls of companies that absolutely do not work, where basic activity is simply not possible, because, after all, such a product cannot find its final buyer. But other production can be organised in these halls, so without ensuring that these same workers or the largest number of the same workers are employed, and thus ultimately provide and achieve what is the objective of the privatisation process, which is to raise the volume of production. In view of the fact that other provisions, i.e. other points of this position, have very clearly defined the possible abuse by the customer of the company – therefore, non-payment of the contracted price, non-investment in the subject of privatisation, availability of assets contrary to good business intentions, non-execution of provisions on how to resolve employee issues, and in the end they have even given other cases envisaged by the contract – it is really not good for the law to be a provision for ensuring continuity, because it is not good for all companies that are privatised. I ask the Ministry to accept this amendment, because it will make life easier. Tomorrow we're going to have a situation where some dead company is running, and it's not in the same operation, it's not secure continuity, and eventually there's a complaint, there's a legal basis for breaking that contract. I think it's completely pointless. My message is - do not tie your hands more than necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13556	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Please, the word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, following the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13557	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think the National Assembly should accept this amendment because it's one of the reasons for privatization and that one firm has only to enter into another form of ownership, in another form of organization, to help it work better, not for someone to come to a good business space, to valuable property, to objects that will be used for their own purposes, as they wish. Why don't you accept the amendment? Because the customer knows on what terms he buys or participates in privatisation. This restriction will from now on be a restriction to every buyer. I've always advocated a deadline for the privatisation entity to continue to deal with the same business as the privatisation. Then you create chaos. You need to know what the country has. And what to invest in, what to invest in? Its condition is to invest certain funds in what? Something new that's going to change that. I don't think the amendmentr saw what could happen after that. It's not much of a restriction. A man buys a tire factory, so we want at least five more years to produce tires or at least three more or at least another 10, so we planned it, not to buy a tire factory, unscathed, which has a business space in Knez Michael Street, closes up a tire factory, takes business space in Knez Michael Street, takes apartments owned by that company. It was during DOS rule, all during DOS rule. That is why I advocate, and I think that is what I said in the debate in principle, to remain this solution proposed by the Serbian Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13558	National MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13559	I, too, am of the opinion of Mr Tomislav Nikolic. This amendment must not be accepted, Mr. Vlahovic. Whoever buys the company knows what the company is doing, knows what the company is doing. When he shows up at the tender or auction, he's familiar with the facts. Imagine the man who bought the trading company and now says – now I'm going to manufacture cars, you don't need me, fire all workers. He can't hire new ones because it's another firm. Why didn't he buy a car factory or what was interesting to him at the time on this market? That's the point. It is a matter of continuity, because what we'll end up privatizing if we don't want the privatized company to work on. I guess that's the purpose of privatisation, and it's not the goal of having someone come into possession of some property right now, because that's why everyone can shut down the companies that are privatized, sell the property, and they don't care. We have cases like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13560	Replica, MP Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13561	Right to the replica, and at the same time the wrong interpretation of the amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13562	Not at the same time, there is another basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13563	Then just straight to the replica. There are different definitions of what an economy is. One definition says that the economy is a risk measure, and the other says that the economy, if you want in one sentence, is a rational use of funds and an allocation of those funds. If you look at all the reports, not just international organisations that are monitoring reform in Serbia, after all, and all the serious studies that talk about the state of our economy, the key thing that needs to happen in order to keep macroeconomic stability on the long term, in order for the economy to be self-sustainable, is structural reforms. If we insist that everything that exists must remain, to invest in it, we would retain the exact same structure of the economy that we have. Then we probably wouldn't be in the same problems we're in today. Probably today our economy would be effective, we wouldn't even think about these issues, because it would be structurally adapted. I'm talking about this view of maintaining continuity in a large number of businesses should remain, but this is regulated by other elements of the contract. There is one large group of companies, at least 30%, according to the experience I have in the privatisation process, where maintaining the continuity of business, and especially when that attitude and that provision are introduced into the law, is really impossible. You tie your hands to private entrepreneurs to use these funds in a much more efficient way, in accordance with the previous definition of the economy. You have an example of a factory in the middle of Belgrade that produces rolling bearings, which does not work. Should it be insisted that a new investor invests money, wouldn't that work continue? It does not work not because the product is not produced, so there is no one to produce it, and the market is hungry for these products, but because other companies, SKF, those large companies that produce the product, have long moved on to other technology. Is that why we in downtown Belgrade can't have something else in place, for example one hotel that will employ 300 or 400 workers, or another investment, which will lead to new employment and thus structurally run the story towards services, which today, if you look at a developed world, bring at least 35% of gross social product to every developed country. So I say, yes, the continuity of production in most cases, not legally for all, because then you'll have one part of the economy that simply won't be sustainable. I repeat again, the worst thing is when the state gets to the details, it sets out what a private investor should do, a private entrepreneur. As a result, it is a postulate, which has been proven empirically, that private property is better, more efficient than state and social property. Let's not tie our hands to private entrepreneurs, let's let them use the most economically rational assets they buy. So what if they shut down the hair salons, if some other activity provides them with better, more efficient production, work or services. In that second activity, the same number of workers as in the previous one must be employed. I'm talking on purpose about this, exposing myself to the possibility of being a populist critic, but believe me, that is the essence of economic reforms, and until we take it as a postulate, we really won't be able to make that strong step forward that our country needs.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13564	Here you go. Article 97 1 wrongly interpreted Mr Nikolic. Here you go. Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13565	Article 100, this is where the dignity of the National Assembly was injured. People think we don't remember anything. For three years, the restructuring of Serbia's economy is under way. It's no longer produced in any factory. I'd like to invest in production, not consumption. Your colleague from the government bought a factory that produced agricultural machines and made a megamarket in it. Do you think it's an interest of the Serbian state? This Novakovic, what's his name, you brought him in, an expert, and I think you're friends. Is Serbia's interest in closing agricultural machinery factories, opening another megamarket? We'll go to megamarkets for another year, buy another two years, and then we'll close those megamarkets. People have nothing to live on. I want a country where the budget will be filled with production, not consumption. If everyone stops producing in Serbia, how do you plan to achieve it? I agree, perhaps 50%, with you on this amendment. It's hard to find. If we have to decide whether we're going to produce or spend it, I'm more likely to produce it and then we'll have something to spend it on. The experience in three years of your authority has not been too favourable and this is a limiting factor that should have been introduced as soon as you entered the first privatisations. Gift the factory if it continues to produce and not reduce the number of workers. It's been our economic program forever. You're saying that the best way to manage is to own private property. It's partly true, I don't think bad management is state property at all. You have state property in every country in the world. There's something they'd never let you sell, we want the state to run it, to have it at its disposal. Social property was a bad thing, just so you don't get me wrong, because it turns out now that social directors took a lot more care of that property at a time when I started to work and recently, than many private people do with their factories. The question is why the private buys something. If he's buying to produce, he's going to run it tremendously, and if he's buying to get to a good business space, to get to houses, villas and properties that this factory has, then he's going to be very bad at running it, he doesn't care about producing it. Or you're going to convince me maybe our factory is waiting for someone in the west, she's here, just to produce what the West needs. Don't get carried away, because the West isn't our market, our market is on the other side, and that's why I'd like us to be ready to produce for that market, while we still can. In these four years, no one cared about production, no one; neither you as Minister of Economy and Privatisation, for you there was only the second "p" and the first "p" for you there was no "p" for you. For what he replaced you, there was neither one nor the other, but a third "p", and unfortunately, it seems to me that neither today nor today in the Serbian government is anyone in charge of taking care of it, of production.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13566	The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic. After Mr. Markovic, Aleksandar Vlahovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13567	When we talk about something about the economy, it's very important that we know what it really looks like in the economy. They're great speakers here and we hear great replicas. Point 4) for which the amendment requires the removal from Article 2(2), does not mean that what could be concluded from the speech – that the company performs one activity, and now it is going to do another, so it is banned, but it reads: "does not provide continuity in the performance of the registered activity for which the privatisation entity is established". Do you know, in practice, what all one company is registered for; do you think it's just for what it's currently doing – no. I don't know if people remember what the registrations looked like in the last few years, according to several items. The example we've heard here has taken advantage of exactly that, so if we were to erase even that possibility, who was in the registration, you would really simply allow something economically unnatural to be done. Because when someone registers activity and registers predicts, as a rule, 10, 20 different activities, it takes into account the location it is located, the environment that exists, the tradition of business. If you would allow him, therefore, to the new buyer, that even if the predecessor potentially imagined everything neglected, you actually allow him to enter into something unnatural. In doing so, the restriction refers to a limited number of years, not forever, so that you destroy the economic perspective in the next 50 years, when trends will change, not, but in a period of three to five years. There is no reason to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13568	Mr. Vlahovic and Mr. Toma Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13569	I have a double replica, or one replica, and one wrong interpretation to advertise. As far as the replica is concerned, I'd like to say that it's obviously not understood that there is a difference between traditional and modern understanding of economic activity. Many know that countries with the greatest economic development, economic growth are exactly the country where the dominant part of the economic activity is being wasteful to so-called. the third sector, i.e. the service sector. Services are not production in the classical sense, but are an essential source of social product growth, and hence citizens' standards. Services are, by definition, the most related to the rapid and fantastic development of the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, which generally fits with the economic recovery strategy and structural reforms in our country. So, indeed, with all due respect to the need for both our country's pests and agricultural machinery, I don't want to allow any time to undermine economic reality, the world's reality, which is that services are the key work that contributes to strong global economic development. In our country, I would like at least a third of our population to work in the service sector and that at least half of the social gross product, the service sector will accomplish, because that will create what is needed, and that is a more flexible economy. I never told you about this pay phone that you need to privatise all state capital. It is also true that other countries in the world have state capital, but it is also true, remember little, that all the countries in the world have passed (I mean those developed, England, Germany) through the phase of restructuring large state enterprises and withdrawing the state even from these sectors, therefore, public activities, but it has been preceded by an extremely sharp, unbiased regulation of these activities. Because these are monopolies, by definition, for which not only the Law on Energy, the Law on Railways, is sufficient, but regulatory institutions are needed. When we have that, then we'll know which part of the state property must enter the privatisation process, and which part should remain permanent in the state property. Now I'm going to use my next three minutes for a misreading, according to Article 97. Rules of Procedure and let me say that...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13570	Excuse me, please, was this a replica? As for the wrong interpretation, I've read the attitude, I don't know why you think it's wrong, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13571	I just want to say, Mr. Markovic, you're right, it's true that private businesses today register as, as you would say, ′′ players for all positions, from the very beginning of the work to the very end, in any case, evil shouldn't, if any profit occurs in another. However, when it comes to social enterprises, enter the register of any social enterprise and you will see that it registers precisely for the activity being carried out. So, as there is regular and secondary activity, I guess this refers to basic activity, not secondary activity. I say once again, I am not saying this in terms of potential dangers for the state, because the state can regulate the continuity of business in point 7 of this position, but there is a potential danger of abuse of this point 4) and of mourning from anyone who is unhappy with the process of privatising and creating problems and the state, and to the new owner and the company. That is why I think that this amendment that corrects point 4) in the position of the 2nd member should be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13572	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic. After the break? Yeah. I'm taking a break until 3:15. [[After break – 16.05]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon work today's session. According to official records, 120 MPs are present. Please at first determine the quorum. I ask Members to insert their parliamentary cards into the electronic voting system units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. We are done with the amendment to Article 20. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Branislav Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13574	Ladies and gentlemen, to article 21. The proposal for a law on privatisation, Colic, has submitted an amendment to item 2, where he says it is unacceptable that the minister in charge of privatisation affairs determines and prescribes the amount of commission costs, but should, of course, regulate it. When I spoke in the principle debate on the restructuring issue, I said, among other things, it was unacceptable for the Privatisation Agency to restructure and I cited the EPS example. Why did I say that? For reasons that EPS is a complex company, a large company, and I don't think the Agency has enough experts to make quality restructuring work. This means disbursement to smaller companies due to the easier sale of the same companies. I'm saying that this member also regulates debt-confidential relations in the restructuring process, which means there's plenty of room here for many manipulations. I'm going to say one example of restructuring planned in the electricity sector. Namely, one central remont, a large company, over 2,000 workers are working on maintaining and making parts that are tied to surface spears, to bangers and accompanying machines that are exploiting surface spears. They've been doing this work for years, most professionally and best at it. I believe that the separation of this part of the company would certainly cause damage, because about 6,000 people live off these salaries and are left to themselves. In this way, the government can plan business arrangements with foreign companies that would take the job and conduct major manipulations. I would like to tell the Kolubara employees, if there are any social unrest, that fellow Milosevic was employed at Kolubara, and he is chairman of the Management Board of the Privatisation Agency, so he will surely have the right address to turn around and try to solve his problems. This is how the Privatisation Agency wants to regulate restructuring. I believe that this is how the Ministry and the Minister want to remove responsibility from themselves and the Government, so that all responsibility would be borne by the Privatisation Agency. I want to point out another example of catastrophic privatisation, which is certainly related to what I'm saying. We had a lot of cases at the Privatisation Committee sessions, where local powers did everything and everything at the time of the privatisation process, at night and day, they went into businesses and simply hijacked and stole machines and sold, kicked out of the company. We have had many appeals, many attempts to prevent this crime, but unfortunately it has not been done and normal for the government to keep all these problems quiet.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13575	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Vlahovic withdraws the amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic. Since the Government and the Privatisation Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13576	You see, this is a new member of the 41st and the title above that member – The settlement of the contract on the sale of capital, i.e. property. This is where the contract is treated as a claim. It's possible to grant a claim. One person gives his claim to another person. This is where you sign the contract. Of course, this refers to the situation where the contract is concluded and the buyer of capital, so you called it here, and now the consignor, can grant a contract on the sale of capital to a third party. In practice, this would mean that the auction will get the right to conclude a privatisation contract, a single person's purchase of capital, and the contract says that within six years the purchase price will be paid and after two months it will transfer the contract to a third party who has not even participated in the auction. That's the situation we've already got. We've had this situation, even more correct than you suggest, at Soya Protein and other companies where the NN face shows up with money or with a purchase guarantee; there's no obligation based on that privatisation, it's fulfilled its obligations, and then three months later we find out that the real owner is someone third. The difference between what you're offering us is that someone in the course of payment can transfer the contract and practically transfer their status to a third party, so that everything else you give as a condition, that he meets the supposed conditions, etc., is something you couldn't find a place in existing practice. He says it's a contract settlement. There's no need to talk about a misdemeanor. If it were a measure of claim, then it's a known category of the Bond Relations Act. Here you go with one hybrid variant to fit a third person into the customer's place. The contract wasn't realised. I agree with you, you treat the subject of privatisation as well. In fact, as a salesman, the Agency is reporting. The company's fine, the company's the subject of the store, that's the horse. Now there's someone third. In this way you play the whole privatisation process and allow the pro-forme to appear in the first phase of the procedure, find out publicly that it is the customer's face, and after a few months run the real one with whose money he participated in the bidding. This becomes what was on customs when it is bided for vehicles; three-four are collected and bid; it is reportedly the highest price, but it was limited; only three, one was given to the bank, two other banks, three banks. What's worth a thousand dinars, it doesn't matter. Consistent with that logic you go further, and you say – he has concluded the contract, but under certain conditions a third party can come to the place of the buyer. Then it's a process of privatisation, then there's no justice and justice, a team before there's no claim or a delegation of obligations that that customer still has towards the state, because he hasn't paid off. When this situation was that he bought it, paid it off, then his freedom was absolutely necessary and there would be no such provision. This provision primarily refers to the purchase of wars. This is not in the spirit of what is expected of privatisation and is contrary to the principle of public and transparency, both honesty and justice. You need to get this whole chapter out of this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13577	Thank you. Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Boris Karaičić and Jovan Todorovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Verica Radeta has tabled an amendment proposing that Article 25 be sent to a new member of 25a. A representative of the Proposer, the Privatisation Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13578	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Parliamentary SRS, I have proposed that a new member of 25a be added after Article 25a, which reads as follows: ′′In Article 60, paragraph 1 behind point 5a) is added to point 5a), which reads – the Social Insurance Fund of Military Insurance Insurance. What's this all about? It is the fact that this Article 60, which I have added to this amendment, regulates how the funds achieved by the sale of capital in the privatisation process are used. The Association of Military Pensioners of Serbia-Montenegro addressed the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Minister of Business and Privatisation personally on 22 February this year and asked for, or proposed, the law to install the provision to separate part of the Social Insurance Fund from the funds received by the sale of capital in the privatisation process. This is an extensive letter I'm not going to read. There's information on the number of users, that's 55,000 military pensioners, and other information the minister may have met. We now have a response from the Minister of 4 February to this association, which, I must say, is indeed a deception and, at the very least, a lyrical one. The minister says --respected Mr Gligorovic, on your letter (some number since 31 January), passed on to the authority of this ministry, and regarding the proposed amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act relating to the issue of the funds achieved in the privatisation process, in order to finance the SVO Fund, we inform you: given that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has sent the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia a bill on the amendments and additions of the Privatisation Act, as well as that it is in the final phase of the assembly procedure, we are unable to consider your proposed amendments. So, the minister didn't want to tell military pensioners that he doesn't care about them and their fund and that he will not put it into the law, but said on January 31st that the law is in the final assembly phase and that for this reason he cannot consider their proposal. Then on March 12th, we proposed that you grant this amendment to this request, i.e. that this military pensioner fund also be settled from the funds achieved by the sale of capital from privatisation, and you, for unknown reasons, refused this amendment, in fact I suppose the government did not even consider it, because the Government's report on the amendments does not have it at all. I also want to say that the Legislative Committee has written in its report that it proposes to the Assembly that this amendment be rejected. This isn't the first time, and I have to tell the members of the Legislative Committee, I assume there are some here, since the president isn't here, that this report is contrary to Article 46. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that the Legislative Committee oversteps its powers. This amendment is neither contrary to the Constitution nor contrary to the law and there is no single reason for the Legislative Committee to say that this amendment should be rejected. I suggest to you, Minister, since from this letter that I have read I could conclude that you may have been willing to install this into the law, but you haven't had time from the end of January to today, to accept this amendment, or to really say, I have deceived you, gentlemen of the military pensioners, and I don't take care of you, and that was the real reason why I didn't put it into the law. If you don't think so, then there is no reason not to accept this amendment by the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13579	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Jovan Todorovic has tabled an amendment proposing that article 25 be sent to a new member of 25a. A representative of the Proposer, the Privatisation Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? National MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13580	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, every time they come to change and supplement the Privatisation Act into this assembly, I believe that you are all, as I am, in a position to be contacted by the presidents, as a rule, small municipalities and undeveloped environments, with the requirement that part of the Law relating to the distribution of funds obtained from the sale of enterprises from their area of office be slightly different. What is the essence of this amendment? We have proposed adding a new Article 25a, so that Article 61 paragraph 1 point 4) changes and reads: ′′2% of the funds will be allocated to finance the development of local self-government infrastructure according to the seat of the privatisation entity, and 3% of the funds will be allocated to finance the development of local self-government infrastructure according to the headquarters of the organisational unit, i.e. the drive of the privatisation entity. I hope it's quite clear what we want. This doesn't change the amount of funds belonging to local self-government, but it kind of changes the location of those funds. You have the fact that some large-scale enterprises have production facilities in other municipalities. You are now selling a Belgrade company that has a power plant in the area, for example, the municipalities of Stara Pazova, Ruma, etc. and all 5% of the funds belong to Belgrade. This production plant employs, say, 50 or 100 workers there and this local self-government does not have the right to participate in these funds. I don't know if this has to be done with the law, but life shows us that everything that isn't regulated by law is a little subjectively solved. I don't see why they wouldn't accept this. It does not change the structure of the funds, but 2% according to the headquarters of the privatised enterprise, and 3% according to the seat of that isolated plant, or local self-government on whose territory this isolated plant is. I would ask Mr. Minister to accept this because I don't see why these small municipalities would now be permanently denied and lagged in development, and these larger, by nature things, which have more companies that are attractive for privatisation and for sale, get that 5%, which is still not enough to solve all the problems, but are still ahead of these little ones that can't reach them because they don't have the 2% that I'm proposing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13581	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13582	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic on behalf of the SPS is good for several reasons. There is no political party that advocates the concept of decentralisation in any way in its political programme. This amendment corrects one serious injustice. I have no intention of giving an additional argument, my colleague Todorovic did it the right way, I just want to remind all MPs that what was the subject of this amendment was the topic of each political campaign. This is now an opportunity to say – we've been campaigning and we're going to vote for this now. Small municipalities, which have a whole series of problems when they make up the budget, when they need to allocate funds for local infrastructure, often have more problems than cities and municipalities with significant budgets. If one plant is located in a small municipality, and there are over 150 municipalities in Serbia that have such a case, it is perfectly logical that the part of what is set out during the privatisation for local self-government belongs to those local self-governments on whose territory are parts of the company, the plants of the companies that are subject to privatisation. If that is not the case, if this amendment is not accepted, then we have further production of injustice when it comes to small municipalities and small local self-government. I ask fellow Members of Parliament to understand this, this is a small concession for local self-government. Absolutely not decomposing of the privatisation model, when it comes to percentages, you know what remains of the local self-government, what goes into the budget, what goes into the restitution fund, but it's important to give small municipalities a chance to make 300 meters of some kind, if not more, or a small local plumbing and help them in this way. If we don't do it today, we don't have the next chance, until the changes and additions of one of the most important laws or to a new budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13583	The word has a National MP, Zivan Vladimirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13584	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the Privatisation Committee, Serbian Radical Party MPs supported this amendment. We consider it just, for many reasons, to be accepted. We talked to the minister about it, and the minister says it's fair, but it's not right. However, many small environments, and I would point out Probation... During the privatisation of the Danube industry, which has plants in Prokuplje, the Mlinska industry from Nis and in the next privatisation of ′′ Žitopeka′′ from Nis Prokuplje will be denied, as well as other small environments. I think it's fair and fair that they at least get a piece of the cake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13585	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13586	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 26 and suggested that this member be deleted. Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS believes that at this moment, when it comes to reforming our legislation, it is necessary to codify criminal law and thus concentrate criminal sanctions on one law, so that criminal sanctions, and above all prison sentences, would not be found in 50, 60 laws, which this parliament has adopted over the past few years. We consider it necessary for these provisions of Article 26 to be found in the Criminal Code, not in this law, when it comes to this provision and this content. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so far in our criminal law, there has been a criminal offence of the same content, which means - who in the public book or other public record enters data with an untrue content is responsible for the crime. And he pleaded guilty by adding another crime to this, and there was also a crime of counterfeiting. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Serbian radicals believe that codification of criminal law is necessary and that these provisions of a number of laws that provide for criminal and legal sanctions are found in its basic and parent law, i.e. In criminal law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13587	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13588	As the promoters have charged, we will probably also be in regulations, regulations, orders and decisions to obtain regulations on criminal acts. He doesn't belong in this law. However, special attention deserves to be given to the fact that in special laws we have so many prescribed crimes, which is exactly the same as the number of situations that can be said to have been criminal. The more the state threatens some member, some criminal acts, the more controversial privatisations with the elements of crime are increasing. But here again, the question arises whether this could be a crime at all. Look how they wrote this, he says: ′′Responsible face in the subject of privatisation... ′′. The subject of privatisation is a commodity... (Minister: No. )......................................................................................................... which is sold on the market. Please. Yes, Minister, the subject of privatisation is a horse, and the responsible person in the horse I don't know who he might be. Who could be the responsible person in a radio camera that's being sold on the market? You know, it doesn't even help right. Here, it doesn't help the real, the economy, there's no discipline that can help. But let's get over it, then you say: which delivered false or incomplete data contained in the program... ′′ Untrue and incomplete, without calling for a material provision where the obligation is prescribed. You probably see one flaw. Simply, you can’t point your finger at the forehead and say – e, this is such a degree of social danger that it could be said to be a crime and to be prescribed and to become an incriminating act. You have the elements of the counter-law that are being speculated on, but it's already a problem of a crime. But I'm surprised you haven't found a crime in those people at the Privatisation Agency who are verifying something that's pretty obvious that it shouldn't be verified. It's interesting that you haven't found the elements of other crimes in some of the auction behaviors, the preparation of auctions, contracts, the realization of the contract, the fulfillment of the obligations under the contract, but this is where you found it. You found it through the system – well, we threatened it to be a crime. Will this provision be implemented in practice? Hardly. Here I am infallible to tell you... What? You're going to give me an example that there's gonna be this, that it's going to be a crime (repeated to the minister) and that the prosecutor is going to prosecute on official duty for this act of someone. (Minister air-conditioned. (President: Please, no discussion. Here you go. ) It is possible for the prosecutor to write an indictment proposal (to see what is the penalty, three to five years), the indictment, it is possible, but I am telling you, on the basis of the established case law on truthfulness and untrueness, complete and incompleteness of the data in some act, that there is no court that will condemn this much. No, it's a central question, Minister. You had to, before you determined the elements of this crime, to consult, to see what court practice is like with the same, where the store is the same. The crime scene is the same. The administration is committing these crimes. It's abuse of official position, unconscious work, etc. You had to consult with someone to define the elements of the entity's crime, agree with that, in order to pass it in court. This won't work for you in court, because every judge, when he reads these three lines, will say, "Please, I don't see the deed here." (Glass: We'll change the judge. And you're gonna change the judges? Well, good.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13589	Please don't throw your colleagues away. Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Here's a word from MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13590	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, all countries of the world, begin with those from South Africa, to the most modern, of which you prescribe all the laws, the more difficult the uniformity of law. The more difficult and the uniformity of criminal law, therefore, in one criminal law should be packed up all that represents guilt and can be answered for. We have a chance for any of the ministers to come forward to propose laws and mandatory and criminal sanctions in that law. That is why I believe that Mr Jojic, the MP of the SRS, is absolutely right and that this must be covered by the Criminal Law, not by the Privatisation Act. I don't want to talk anymore, although I fully agree with Mr Krasic, about what is a responsible person in a privatisation entity, especially in privatization entities that have been developed to the end, not to say abandoned. You only have a porter as the only employee in many factories you will privatize, which have stopped since the ′′bullocer of the revolution′′ came on October 5th, so here we go. Then will the porter, the bankruptcy manager, who was eventually assigned there, be the responsible person? Don't play, don't put anything into all the laws that belongs exclusively to Criminal Law, so that once this country has laws that work. That is why I propose that this amendment by MP Petar Jojic be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13591	Thank you. The word is made by MP Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13592	The honourable MPs, these criminal provisions proposed in these amendments to the Law, according to the SRS amendment, were to be found, if there are signs of such a criminal offence, in Criminal Law. I wanted to talk about the responsibility of the privatisation and control procedure involving the employees of the Privatisation Agency, workers of regional offices, who, by their actions and inaction, commit law violations, and therefore the criminal offense; violations of the law and those crimes in the official duties of the state's officials, in order to make such a privatisation, or robbery. The minister also said, further explaining the text of this law, that 1,500 companies have been privatised so far, and that control was carried out, as far as I can remember, in 1,080. What about these 420s, where no control was done at all? Then, that 124 lawsuits have been filed so far, and there are only 24 judicial convictions. No wonder those directly involved in this robbery privatisation process start from workers who suffer the consequences of the union president, and in some ways the members of the Privatisation Committee, whose work does not follow the means of information, probably according to the current government's dictatorship, that workers do not hear the real truth and the essence of what kind of privatisation is. In the royal municipality, or the area covered by this regional office in the Kingdom, out of 34 privatisation entities, nearly 12 are already in the process of termination of the contract or the conditions for termination of the contract have been met. No mention should be made of ′′Autotransport′′ - Vrnjačka Banja; a first-degree court decision has already been made. Then, I have to mention "The coolant" - the King. This is the same customer who bought ′′Autotransport′′ - Vrnjačka Banja, where the complaint was filed by the Agency 4.8.2004. To date, no verdict has been reached, although it is clear to laymen that these key provisions of the purchase agreement are not met. What do you say about ′′PeljoTransport, King? After the contract was concluded, the buyer, i.e. the majority owner, alienated 60% of the company's immovableity, which is essentially locals and business premises. He knowingly transferred to the account of Meridian Bank in Novi Sad, to his personal account, and with severe pain and beating of many thresholds, there was a criminal report and arrest for the buyer. Unfortunately, he was only in custody for three months and was later reportedly eligible for detention, but the Agency did not press charges by making a solution to the detention, despite these fact that he had estranged over 60% of the value i.e. the property of the company, but only at the pressure of the Committee in 31.12.2004, although the decision on detention by the District Court's investigative judge was brought on 12.11. Neither the company nor today, although there are all reasons for the termination of the contract, no solution has been reached by the Trade Court of Belgrade. What else is paradoxical or scary? After the detention of the alleged buyer and majority owner returned to Poljo Transport, where he continues to have that privatisation entity, where he continues to scold and humiliate workers who have created the company for 40 years. Where's the state, where are the state institutions? All of you who represent the state in fact throughout this privatisation process, in this way as I mentioned to you these several cases from the King, not to mention Raska - the baker, Novi Pazar – "Octanpro" and other companies, according to the Agency for which the lawsuits should be filed, are complicit in the robbery of property that workers have created for decades. The consequences for these around 300,000 workers are devastating, they have lost their jobs, no bread and no existence, and you, as representatives of the state, are trying to, in this way, with these little changes to the Law, confirm all of this and continue with this third and final stage of the robbery of entire property in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13593	Is there anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Milan Stevović. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The People's MP Milan Stevović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13594	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to understand the amendment that I have submitted on behalf of the SRS, I must say briefly what Article 30 refers to. In fact, Article 30 refers to the privatisation of enterprises, financial organisations and institutions that have "a federal importance", i.e. enterprises, financial organisations and institutions where SRJ or its bodies have founding rights. In order for these companies, financial organisations and institutions to be privatised under the provisions of this Article 30. The first condition is that they continue to work and another condition is that there is an agreement between Member States of the state community. When it comes to the first condition, we can agree, but when it comes to the second condition, which is the agreement between Member States, the regulation of founding rights, there is already a problem. In fact, this is about a legal void, which we want to fill in with an agreement and on the basis of this agreement to bring this legal text. The SRS can't agree with that. Rather, the Law on the Fundamentals of the Change of Property of Social Capital has been put out of force, and there is no regulation of such matters in relation to the Law on Property or the arrangement of the property of the state community. When it comes to this legal void, it must be filled with an adequate legal solution. We are now filling something at the republic's level that comes from the jurisdiction of the federal parliament, i.e. the parliament of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. With this, we can't have an adequate solution. There will always be a problem with the decision-making process. So, the amendment that I have submitted is that this member should be deleted, precisely for legal certainty, because the interests of both the state unions of Serbia-Montenegro would otherwise be damaged, but, in any case, individual members -- both Serbia-Montenegro.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13595	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13596	Since you've destroyed the SRJ, I don't even know how she showed up in this article in the first place. ′′Employments, financial organizations or institutions in which the SRJ... ′′ – there you can say the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, because then you do not recognise the Belgrade Agreement, the Constitutional Charter and all that is done in the meantime. However, no wonder, a few days ago you still had it in the law, in those two laws, and: The National Bank of Yugoslavia, and the SRJ and all possible terms, you didn't change that. So that's the first problem. The other problem is – this norm is possible in one of the rules adopted in the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly. You're practically regulating the state's behavior here. Here's how. He says: ′′Employments, financial organisations or institutions in which the SRJ and its bodies have founding rights′′, which, by the way, belongs to the federal level to regulate it; you say: ′′which continue work and for which Member States are governed by the agreement, the founding rights’ – another future uncertain fact. You have a much stronger explanation that you do not accept the amendment, but what you wrote in the article's text. If you wanted to regulate this, you could have said – if or if, under the agreement of the Member States, the Republic of Serbia takes over the founding rights of one of these organisations, the privatisation process will be carried out under the provisions of this law. Very simple and simple. You have a need to regulate this, because there's a huge indignation on that property. It is a ′′Borba′′ and some other institutions, ′′Borba′′ especially, a whole news organization; and this "Futura" that ingests one institution at a time, and some federal future officials, Orlic and those who make some of their own private schemes, you know well, and Covic etc. You have the need, we support that you regulate it, but this as you regulate doesn't mean anything, because uncertain future facts are being introduced. So this is where the Member States are introduced to regulate. So, the agreement of the Member States, it's below the level of federal law. But you said the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the Republic of Montenegro should make some kind of agreement. Anything they would do as an agreement would be like an international contract. The Charter stipulates that the Federal Assembly regulates it. Why did you build a community when there was no jurisdiction? You and the Army have garnered under the Law to enforce the Constitutional Charter. You said – property located in Serbia belongs to Serbia, property located in Montenegro belongs to Montenegro. It was shown here in this room two or three years ago as the highest degree of legal regulation and democracy, and a quick accession to what I don't know, and now the Republic of Serbia is making its own law in transitional and final provisions when the Republic of Serbia makes an agreement. Well, as long as yours is realized, Davinic has everything to sell. You can't do this like this. Minister, this can't be happening. If you need an agreement, make a deal, and then, by the logic of things, according to the seat and the property that's here. What was left there in Montenegro, according to their regulations; however, it was all privatized long ago. It wasn't done, you didn't write it. You, ma'am, wrote a better text in the explanation than you wrote in the article. You can nod your head until tomorrow, but you'll see. This is what you will be invited to invoke the mangoons and the "Futura", and the one Orlic and Covic, and all those who have cast their hands on this alleged federal property, which is in undefined condition. You are not helping this member with the Republic of Serbia Property Directorate. The Republic of Serbia Property Directorate has a sudden need to obtain a legal basis, as there are also judicial disputes about this, where the Marovic and his men behave cowboyically. We support you to regulate it, but it's the wrong member. The formula is wrong. This formulation can be a federal regulation; that you have reshaped this where the Republic of Serbia has received founding rights, it is privatised according to the regulations of the Republic, according to this law and the end of the story. But here, if an agreement is made, and the founding rights are resolved, then in the seat of the Republic of the Republic, you've already raised it to a federal level in the formulation itself. You're prescribing the state's behavior. That's forbidden.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13597	National MP Tomislav Nikolic, according to the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13598	Indeed, after the presentation of MP Zoran Krasic, the man has nothing to add, but I want to point to the absurd regulation of the behaviour of another Member State under the law of one Member State. You are now predicting here in norms (there are also grammatical errors here, but I do not suggest them) that companies, financial organisations or institutions in which SRJ or its authorities have founding rights, so it should be said – which continue to work and for which Member States are governed by the agreement, are privatised by the rules on the privatisation of a Member State in whose territory this enterprise, financial organisation or institution is established. What if Montenegro doesn't pass a law like this? What happens then, then, is we pass a law like this, and Montenegro brings a different one. We have now committed Montenegro to privatising an institution based in Montenegro under the law of Montenegro. What if Montenegro says – the privatisation of these entities is done according to the place where they carry out business activities, according to the law of the Member State where they carry out business activities. Then where are we gonna go? You can never impose obligations on another, I say - the republic, and you, in the Belgrade Agreement, say - another Member State; you cannot. You can make a commitment to create rights for Serbia; you cannot create rights for Montenegro in this assembly. If you can already create for Serbia, Mr. Minister, I appreciate your presence in the National Assembly, I've always been there for the minister to attend meetings of the National Assembly to discuss, but I'm asking if your colleagues think of JAT at all. Do they think that now 700 people strike, 700 operatives strike at JAT and that JAT will soon reach a branch from which it will not be able to privatise itself. Today, the former privatisation minister spoke about privatising state-owned enterprises in the west. That's right, but did anyone in Germany ever think about Lufthanza giving Panamerican? And here we're talking about several privatisation entities, so let this member be something like additionally to regulate privatisation entities located on both territories, operating on both territories, both countries have founding rights, and I'm asking you now what's going to happen to JAT, Mr. Minister, whether we're going to have that airline within five, ten or 15 days or not. Does the government participate in the collapse of our airline, does it work to get it for free, does it because JAT has the right to land in every country in the world; it's the value of JAT, rental planes used by JAT are not its value. JAT doesn't have an airport and what was in Tivat was donated to Montenegro. I am interested in whether you have assessed the value of JAT, what JAT is now the value of JAT, and whether it is now destroying the Government of the Republic of Serbia. To tell you the truth, I love Serbia more than anything in the world, I love JAT more than any airline in the world, but there is a question in front of me and other citizens of Serbia in 15 days, if they are able to buy JAT's ticket to travel somewhere or a map of a foreign carrier, which they will choose. Are they going to risk sending their old parents or their children off on some business trip that they don't know if they're going to strike again and whether or not they're going to start working again? In my opinion, it's more important than today's session, I think we should have a session on the situation at JAT. If 700 aircraft engineers and aircraft mechanics strike, they're not even secretaries, you threatened to fire them, and they can't come in anymore. They said they wouldn't force themselves into their former workplaces if you fired them. Then what will be the day after tomorrow with JAT, because JAT is not JAT's director, JAT is not the minister of traffic, JAT is not the Prime Minister; JAT are pilots, air engineers, air mechanics, flight attendants, all staff related to JAT. We're not JAT, but we're really worried about something that's our pride, about something that's in our interest to preserve, and it's happening here in front of our eyes. We sit here and talk about repairing the Privatisation Act, I agree, because the law has finally come, and you say it's been waiting a long time, and I didn't blame you after one of your presentations, because you said – this law has been waiting since the end of December. But it does not wait for the Assembly, the Assembly is in power of the Government, January, February and March, there is the government's majority, and we could not schedule one session of the National Assembly because we did not have 84 MPs to schedule an extraordinary session. Mr. Minister, the government could have scheduled an emergency session on this bill whenever it wanted, January, February and March. If she asked, Mr. Markovic wouldn't be able to ignore you like I did, he'd have to put it on the agenda, he'd have to make an appointment. So please, maybe you're not familiar with bringing in the ′′captor to tell us what he's up to with JAT and what's left of our airline.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13599	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Otherwise, as you all know, both in January, in February and March, the Assembly worked, whether you MPs or the speaker of the assembly were scheduled, a new one is not scheduled during the session. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The proposing representative and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13600	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, I didn't want to talk about the amendment to Article 32, because it was long discussed on a round table with the minister, and I now leave it to the Minister to decide on that amendment. I wanted to fix some things, and if it's all the same from the government's point of view, let's take it, and if not, we'll see how we move on. This amendment to Article 33 actually precedes an important amendment to Article 36, i.e. behind Article 36, which Mr Obradovic will explain. I therefore propose to create a legal basis in Article 33 that these provisions of the Privatisation Act relating to privatisation entities which are also restructured to enterprises, as well as companies where the shares in the total number of shares of the company transferred to the Action Fund and the Republic PIO Fund are equal to or greater than 33.4%. What do I want to say? We had a privatisation in 1997, under which workers had the right to reach 60% of the capital ownership, and about 40% of the capital was transferred to the Action Fund. Today we need the Action Fund to manage these actions in a way that would suit a good host and achieve a good price, in a number of ways. One way is to sell its shares on the stock market, and another way is to round up the action package along with the workers, and sell it to a majority strategic partner. I think it is the supreme interest of the Government, as well as of the MPs of the National Assembly to even things out in a position, primarily from the point of view of economic integrity, those enterprises that are privatised until 2000, and they have the status of large enterprises, and these large enterprises that are covered by these amendments to the Law, especially in Article 9 and in some other members of this proposal on the amendments to the Law on Privatisation. I think that would be some kind of justice. Workers have become the owners of these companies in the majority amount, but the Action Fund has the so-called "action Fund". A control package of actions in many of these companies, and should have it. If there is already one, then it must take care of that capital from the point of view of increasing its sales price and from the point of view of the interest of future customers for such companies. I'm sure, as much as there's talk about working stock, that many workers won't want to be entrepreneurs, and that's natural, that they're going to want to sell their actions, that they're going to want to join them with the Action Fund, that they're going to want a lot of things in their businesses. However, in order to go well, businesses should be in the same legal status as those large ones in which the privatisation process has not yet started and the government should conduct the debt to the state and to the funds in the same way and to the minimum extent that it is present in the ownership of the capital in those enterprises that it has committed that debt waiver to these companies. I think it's a legal passage for what will follow as a proposal from the SPS parliamentary group, the introduction of a new member of 36a.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13601	Anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Zarko Obradovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 36a be added after article 36a. The proposing representative and the Privatisation Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13602	Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment, and given our assessment that this is an extremely important amendment, I will quote the entire content of this amendment. "The public enterprise, the Tax Administration, the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, the Republic Health Insurance Institute, the Republic Reserve Directorate, the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia and other Republic bodies and organisations (hereinafter referred to as the State Trustee) are obliged to release their debt to a company whose share of the action has been transferred to the Action Fund under the Law on its own transformation ("Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", number 32/97), in general, and its claim to settle from the assets of the sale of shares of a company owned by the Action Fund. The State Trustee is also considered by the Deposit Insurance Agency, the recovery, bankruptcy and liquidation of banks when it functions as a bankruptcy, i.e. liquidating manager over banks in bankruptcy, i.e. liquidation and when it manages on behalf and on behalf of the Republic of Serbia for requests from the Republic of Serbia on the basis of commitments made ino. The provisions of Article 1(1) shall apply if the share of shares transferred to the Action Fund and to the Republic of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund in the total number of shares of a company equal to or greater than 33.4%. "I deliberately read the contents of the entire amendment so that no misread would occur, because I appreciate that it is an extremely important amendment. For critics of this amendment, just to mention that the SPS thinks it's fair and that it can help the functioning of these business entities, and thus to the entire Republic of Serbia. It is called for to release debts to the level of ownership of state capital in these economic operators. In fact, I can't help but mention that in recent years a large number of these businesses have worked in extremely difficult conditions, in years of sanctions, in years of aggression on our country, in the years of the collapse of the single former Yugoslav market, in the years when the property of these businesses, at least some of them, was taken away, robbed, and let it remain permanently in other republics. The property will be the subject of claims which will be made by who knows when to charge and the question is whether at all, since it is interstate relations that are on a long stick and the question is whether they will be regulated. It seems to me that it would be good to accept this amendment, because if it doesn't, these economic operators will have big problems in functioning. It is certain that many of them will have to go bankrupt, given the high debt to public enterprises, the Tax Administration and the funds, to the banks that are in bankruptcy. It's interesting, but it's a long story, to write off the debt of these banks, but not long enterprises to these banks, etc. All of that, of course, leads to the possibility of a huge portion of state capital disappearing. Proposing this amendment, the SPS believes that its acceptance can achieve several very important objectives. We believe that accepting this amendment creates absolute conditions for these economic operators to continue to work. That is, you will admit, the basic thing that everyone should be interested in, especially the Republic of Serbia, for the reason that the functioning of these companies achieves several goals. There is, in fact, full capacity employment, job conservation, and the market, there is protection of the interests of small shareholders, protection of the interests of state capital. Through the work of these companies and the total number of employees of the countries in different ways, it collects a large part of the revenue. I didn't mention it, but the fact is that some of these companies also have this aspect that, if they do, it also matters from the point of view of the country's strategic interests. They are extremely important for the functioning and development of certain regions, so this also has to do with the country's security. So there are many reasons why this amendment should be accepted. If these companies are successful in doing business and functioning, it is logical that they will enter privatisation far more ready than others, they will achieve a higher price, thus creating conditions for the state to charge more funds than their share in the total assets. I must finally mention another reason that is of general character, but you will allow, if the motioner used it in the context of the bill's proposal, which is to protect the wider social interest, I think that, by accepting this amendment to the SPS, this very protection of wider social interest would be absolutely achieved.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13603	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word is by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13604	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must admit that I am surprised at the constructive nature of the amendments submitted by the SPS parliamentary group and I think this is the first time I've come out and agreed to something from what comes from the SPS parliamentary group. In fact, it seems to me that it is economically celibate to the relaxation of large enterprises privatized under the 1997 Law, which was actually not a privatisation but a free division of shares to employees, pensioners, so in this sense it cannot be treated as owned by private persons, or an institutional economic investor. In addition, there was no substantial ownership transformation in these companies, in the sense that the level of quality of corporate governance is raised, etc., so I think that it is both socially cellular and economically justified to treat these companies in the same way as non-privatised enterprises, especially where large systems are concerned and where the Action Fund has a significantly larger share in the total capital. I think that this limit of one-third is well set, because that is a third that ensures the blocking of all strategic decisions, and I think that if the purpose of this law is economic integrity and I think that all norms in this way are led from the very beginning, it should consider accepting this amendment, which, among other things, will reflect on the quality of the operations of other large systems that are in the partial regime of the Action Fund.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13605	Thank you, Mr. Vlahovic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13606	It's just a shame we're having a discussion about restructuring at the end of the law. But this amendment is a good reason to draw attention to the government and to warn the public that there is a problem, that the problem could have been somewhat resolved, that the social enterprises that are awaiting privatisation or that are partially privatised, which is the subject of this amendment, went into the restructuring process in 2001. To return a little subject to something previously known, it is the wrong term – labour bankruptcy, whether through the court, where pro-forma is opened bankruptcy, and then extends the bankruptcy, and something usually ends with abuses, or financial and production consolidation, as it used to be called, according to specific programmes that the Government of the Republic of Serbia proposed by a ministry. The component of both variants was the write-off of debts, the write-off of claims, and there was always a problem with the PIO Fund, with the Health Fund, and also with the other, as you call it, the state trustees. I have to draw your attention, the alpha and the omega to solve all these problems, and after the write-off of debts and the injection of new funds, it was a personal composition of those who are at the head of the company in the restructuring process. If you've got a punk on your forehead, there's nothing from restructuring. If you have a healthy, normal crew who knows how to do that job, then there's some chance, then there's some excuse for having a debt write-off. If the bastards lead this, then the write-off doesn't make any sense, but someone from the state should be called to account for making it possible to write down and help criminals and mobsters. I'm taking over, Minister, and privatisation. Let me just tell you that you're going to be faced with this problem and it's going to be your biggest problem. Studies have been done before. It was not called restructuring, but it was called consolidation and training of businesses, that it could satisfy, above all, its programming and other economic interests and obligations, and all in its function to preserve the number of employees, to ensure their existence based on work and to preserve that capital for future privatisation. It's been criticised before. I know that all those who criticized it, the moment they faced reality with that problem. It took three years, so now they're changing attitudes, so now they're good and amendments to the red and black coalitions. Until five years ago, it was a plague. No one wanted to think about it. Just because you accept this in principle doesn't mean anything unless you take care of the personal composition that this job is going to do. If you make the wrong choice here, you haven't done anything. Don't forget one thing: these free assets, which could go into privatisation, are today just mob funds. You've paid a little attention to the previous check before the contract was concluded, whether the commission that examines this money laundering finished its job quality. And in that commission there is the domination of a financial lobby, so that as buyers have appeared, as our people say -- there is nothing for the dog to bite him for, and he has become a paper owner in the privatisation process. So I'm telling you, despite the obvious good wishes around this consolidation before you're going to privatize yourself, take care of the personnel and personal solutions, because you might be ruined by an idea that has economic logic and economic justification. (President: Time) Just two more seconds. If you're already talking about write-offs, make sure you don't succumb to selectivity, so let's just say you grab on to businesses, big systems that have some strategic significance and a potential strategic partner, some white world opposite, and you lose sight of it, because you count there's no greater interest, a company with a hundred people, who, with the write-off of debt and small things, can stand on their feet and benefit the government, to solve the social problem, because these people would be out of a job. Be careful.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13607	Thank you. Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Article 37. The amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Since the Government and the Privatisation Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the representative of Dr Predrag Bubalo, Minister of Business, want the final word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13608	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's discussion concerning the Law on Privatisation, I must indeed point out one much greater pleasure than the amendment and addition of the Act on the Action Fund and the Charter of Values. It must be acknowledged that these issues were much more important for our society, for the MPs, and that the quality of the document done at a higher level than the patchage we have, where only the need for rationality indicated that such a thing was proposed. I have to be principled to myself, so I won't look back on what was media propaganda and what was directed to the viewers. Every time I do that, I do it in principle and now I do it. We also had the opportunity to get one hour out of two MPs, a lesson in economic and legal science. If we exempt all of this, I have one methodological dilemma, now that I have a modest, insignificant work in the congregation – I am still not smart enough to wait and ultimately answer all questions or react every time. I think it's still better this first method, which I've defined myself for, because sometimes the answer irritates the one whose proposal or amendment is not accepted, so it only stalls and creates the need for replicas, etc. I've simply defined myself for this one, it seems more effective, a method. As you've noticed, I guess because I'm a businessman, I'm always defined as a more rational and practical solution. I'm going to try to get through what was most important in today's discussion, which was much more constructive and better than the last two days. Regarding Article 1, there was a lot of discussion about bankruptcy. What I'm saying is, about the law amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act, that it's just the harmonisation of this law with the law on bankruptcy and the Law on the Privatisation Agency, so we have to go back to it already being regulated, that it was right in this assembly, and that it's kind of just a harmonisation. This is also indicated by Article 14(9). The bankruptcy law, because there were stories that the Agency wasn't trained, that it had no capacity, that it wouldn't be able to meet all the needs of companies with social property. In Article 14(1), point (b) is replaced by the following: The bankruptcy law is said that the Agency can carry out bankruptcy proceedings only if it is bankruptly larger than that. Therefore, there is no automation and there is no need for bankruptcy in all cases to be conducted by the Agency. Of course, for some specific cases, where some bilders and jazzers were mentioned, there are not the Privatisation Agency and the Ministry of Economy responsible. That's where you know who's in charge, so you have to rule. There has been a lot of discussion about Article 3 which says: ′′A buyer of capital or property cannot be: a domestic legal entity that operates with majority social capital; a natural person;", and there have been several discussions at different points, a legal person and a legal person, who, according to the privatisation entity, has an unsettled commitment until the day of the tendering, or an application for participation in an auction; and a person with whom a contract on the sale of capital is broken, or property due to the failure of contractual obligations. We should go in a row. First, when it comes to a company with social capital, it's quite logical; it was an intensity to add state capital, but, as you know, the owner was nominated and there is, as pointed out in some discussions, state capital in all environments. We don't think there's any reason why a state capital company with a majority state capital should be excluded from being a buyer in the privatisation process. As for the people with whom the contract was broken, I have a dilemma about this discussion, I don't really have, but I'm asking as a dilemma – whether the purpose of the sale, or the purchase of a company, is to develop the promotion of new technology in the company, and this was a question of restrictions on the participation of workers in the privatisation process. So, with this in mind, I have a dilemma and I want to give an answer – whether shopping and selling are in the function of developing a new technology in the company or just a mere purchase. We have a series of examples where workers have succeeded, giving their houses in stock, in mortgage, to raise money for the purchase price, but nothing else has changed; nor have they had the opportunity to purchase new technology, to invest, nor for any more serious change in the company compared to what was before privatisation. It was about the right of a buy-and-purchaser that was mentioned here. As for Article 5, which has had a lot of discussion, I think it was unnecessary, because it is a means of payment; it says: ′′ Payment funds cannot be in bonds on the basis of unpaid foreign exchange savings to citizens who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia and who have not arrived on the day of sale of capital, i.e. assets, if the agreed price is paid in a maximum of six annual wars. ′′ So, to clarify, it is not at all forbidden to pay the bonds. There are no bonds placed in another plan or an unfair relationship with other securities of value. It is only to protect the price, i.e. to prevent the price being paid. It only applies to cases if you pay something for six years. So we respect the principle of public and mutual giving in Article 15. The law on bond relations, because we said that the government or minister would prescribe (what Mr Krasic specifically attacked, about the method etc.) I can't imagine what kind of discussion would be in that case. In other words, if the initial price is low, if the bonds are discounted, it would really be too much to expect that method to be used even when it is paid off for six years. In terms of continuity in the performance of the contract, we believe that this is an important element of the contract, which is an automatic and legal basis for the termination of the contract. That's where I agree well with the debater who attacked this, that it shouldn't be closed, that we shouldn't stone some relationships, but unfortunately, this is what made us practice. In practice, there was a lot of abuse and a lot of bad behavior. I'm telling you right now this won't be a limiting factor in every privatized company where the new owner comes out with a serious business plan, where he proves after some very short work that he can do it better. After all, the example from the factory from which I was going – as long as the privatisation was not hit by a rock foundation for the new factory was thinking whether it was a real partner or not. When the first stone-base was hit, when one factory came along, then another one, and all in six or seven months, everyone accepted it, no one rebelled and everyone trusted. The measure was extorted by practical reasons, not to stone or slow down economic logic. As regards Article 7, it was said that only a tender is used as a privatisation method for restructuring. We don't think the solution is as rational as that. It is a norm that has been taken over from the basic text of the Privatisation Act, and this norm has already produced results. We already have an example of where the capital of the entity in which the restructuring was carried out was sold through both the public auction method and the tender method. I don't think what happened in practice really does exist, and the basic text points us to it. As for the discharge of the debt, where luck is that we immediately introduced this mechanism into the Privatisation Act back in 2001 or possibly some changes that were later made; today we would have had much less work to do, much less problems, we would have a very rational solution and fewer losses, at least for the three years since we had that solution in the Law. So this is actually perhaps a crucial provision in this legal text that needs to speed up privatisation, that we should give these companies that are left behind and that in this way, in the most efficient economic way, we should prevent further loss creation. There's been a lot of talk about the layoff, and in the previous period and today, as far as he's under the law. He's completely on the law. In general, this institute was taken over by the Bond Act. There's really no need to talk about Celebrity. Already on several occasions, and especially regarding Article 10, there were stories about the composition of the arbitration council. Here I would just repeat something that I had to say the day before yesterday – the nature of the claim determines the composition of the arbitration council. Exclusion of public auction, as I said, is not rational, and the solution to the way the claims are reported is identical with the decision of the Banking Procedure Act, including, in the end, what was disputed – arbitrationally greater. Of course, some minor changes I won't even comment on. As far as criminal-legal liability is concerned, I completely agree with all the debaters who advocate the codification of criminal law, and I really don't have anything to add or take away. But since it's all going slowly, and privatisation is a dynamic process, we can't wait for codification. We need to prevent some of the phenomena that are present in the privatisation process. In the end, on the Privatisation Committee, by a large number of people, there are the gaps and the need for such a measure to exist. One example, since the debater who attacked this most called for examples, among other things he mentioned "Auto Transport", from Vranjska Banja; it is an ideal example of why such a thing should exist. Because everyone's talking about the consequences, and no one's going to face how that privatisation started. And it started by the workers agreeing to build a consortium together with the director and privatizing the company. So, despite the low price, they waited for the first round to pass. No one was interested, and they were committed to buying in the second round, at the second auction, all that as a company. In order to do even more to themselves, the contract that was signed and already paid, two buses were paid in Germany, it was not put into the prospectus and was nowhere to be found. That's what the director did because he wanted to go along with the company to buy it. Unfortunately, the whole story involves then one unconscious customer, who flies into everything that's already been prepared for someone else. Indeed, right now, based on one-year experience, I can say that the biggest problems where privatisation was prepared or trained for one customer, for one side, and someone unplannedly flew in. That's what the problems are. The car was just the right example of why it was necessary to sanction all this. With full respect for the pledge to prevent all criminal and legal provisions from being found in one place, I don't think it's burned by then, to prevent any negative and deviant behaviour, to prevent anything from being threatened in any particular law, and at least if nothing else, it acts preventively, no matter what the process and decision of the public prosecutor will be, how the courts will react, but we know that every impediment besides retribution also contains elements of prevention. And that prevention is particularly important at this point. Finally, one of the most important amendments may be what is said about Articles 33 and 36. I don't know how all the procedures for accepting the amendment are going. I don't even know if we have the space to do some serious legal-technical redecoration or grooming. The problem is in the proposed form of amendments, in order for it to be accepted, but I have worked very hard to reconsider this once more, especially having noticed that there is a huge consensus of all MPs to address this problem in a certain way. I'd very much like to accept that, but I'd like to ask him to try and find a way to make that happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-23-0.u13609	Thank you. I wouldn't be doing that guy any more favors, you know. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. Thank you very much. Goodbye. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 127 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Nikola Milosevic, Ivica Dacic, Zarko Obradović and Velimir Stanojevic; Milisav Petronijevic will be late. I welcome the representatives of the OSCE who are monitoring the work of this session. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Regulation of the Republic of Serbia and of the Banks in Stečanja on the basis of the credits (principles) adopted by Jovan Todorovic.
