ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12398	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in a two-day debate on the proposal for this law, a debate that passed unusually for this assembly home, in a relatively peaceful atmosphere, without replication, and I would say that there was no replica in the course of the debate, which speaks of a solid spirit that exists in this House, but more than that, I would say that the illustration of completely separate experiences and understandings that are related to this law. So, two concepts of seeing and understanding the topic of marriage, the extramarital community, marital relations, families, family relationships, have run completely parallelly, so practically there was no need for some cross-referencing opinions. Now it's just a question which concept will prevail. One of the ideas that we had the opportunity to listen to during the debate is traditional, in many elements even retrogradely, and in that concept, fear dominates that view, and fear of excess rights. So, the most frequent criticism that has been expressed in this one concept is preconceived manipulation, which will be made possible if this excess right, according to them, is achieved. Of course, this excess of rights is primarily about a woman and a child. So, by some rule, if we can interpret this vision, the woman, or the child, or those social groups that are generally weaker, and thus the most common object, the object of abuse, are by nature things - manipulators and someone who will, by law, provide for it as a improvement and, as a step forward, manipulate for the sake of not knowing what interests. Often there is a common experience and a common feature of these weaker social groups, which are once again the subject of the greatness of a traditional family, whatever traditional family they mean. Often, in the grandeur of the traditional, patriarchal values of the family and family life, it is deliberately or accidentally forgotten to name the traits and values that we consider to be traditional and patriarchal and for which no changes are required. I think that in this concept of understanding of this law, it remains seriously closed to our reality that violence in the family exists, that it cannot be a matter of any family member or family in general, that this social problem is exactly that - a social problem, that society is responsible for the degree of tolerance towards violence at all, and especially violence in the family, and that it is not a personal, private or family matter, which does not concern anyone outside of that traditional patriarchal family or anyone outside the closed door. So one of the biggest shifts this law offers is to reduce the degree of social tolerance towards domestic violence. Here, in this concept, in the course of the debate, it was often considered to be what was negative in the law and was prejudged, or at least doubted that the manipulations of these members were possible. I think it's time for us to, instead of some myths about "socular nests," some values of the patriarchal family, think about the individual who's a member of each family. This is practically the leading motive in that second concept that ran parallelly during the debate and which is practically supported by the Democratic Party. So, we believe that all the values that relate to family life are based on values and the relaxation of freedom and the right to a choice owned by an individual. Instead of undefined and unsettled patriarchal families, we practically experience a family, and this allows it this law, as a healthy community of free individuals who have the right to choose. That is what is the foundation of support for this law by the Democratic Party. Of course, we continue to insist that we go to the end in this freedom of choice, because if the promoter had the strength and the courage to make this step into modern and that the family and relations within the family are treated in a modern way, to apostrophe the importance of the individual and his right to choose – especially to praise the provisions concerning the rights of the child and the provisions concerning the protection against domestic violence, because this is also a practical social concern about the individual – we appeal to the promoter to take another important step forward and when it comes to that member who practically produces all relations in family relations, and regarding the right to choose the birth of the child. In the course of the amendment debate, we will offer further arguments, and we really think, if we predefined Article 5 and in the right way we give the woman the right to freely decide on birth, that this story of freedom of choice and a free individual in the relaxion of family relations will be quite rounded up. We think it's an extremely important member of the law, because it's a question that we're going to define whether to overcome that first concept that I was talking about, so we're going to stay largely in some hazy relationship, which we're just going to call traditional, family, and thus expose, if we don't quite open the door to many manipulations about the freedom of choice to give birth, which is the natural right of a woman, or we're going to support, which is what the Democratic Party stands for, this second concept, which treats a free individual as the basis of a real, healthy family, and thus also a healthy society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12399	Does any other president or representative of the parliamentary group want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have exhausted our principled debate, I conclude the search in principle. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic has tabled an amendment proposing an amendment to the name of the bill. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12400	Thank you. MP Trifunovic-Ruzdic will give his reasons why he believes the family law should bear the term "family law", not "family law". I don't think the law belongs to the family, but to talk about family relations and everything that happens in the family, family and family. Not only do I think it's more linguistically correct for it to be a law on family, because it involves both family and family relations and everything about family, but I also think that logically this is much more justified. That is why I expect my colleagues and colleagues to accept the amendment, so that the future law is called the family law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12401	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Mrs. Beretic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12402	I think the subject matter of this amendment is really more of a linguistic nature, but nothing that is related only to the language of course does not exclude any other essential importance. So this is about a kind of advance adjective. Also, we support Mrs Ruzdic-Trifunovic's amendment. First of all, for language reasons. So, in this group, which includes the adjective "family" with the extension -n, it's mostly adjectives as concepts with whose names they stand, they belong to what the noun or the name they stand by, practically they follow what the name says. If we were language analysts, it's OK, so it's right, but we're essentially narrowing it down. Simply, what we would say most understandable is not in the spirit of language. It's perfectly natural that you can – work day, work book, work internship, but you can't – work law. It's about, it's simple comparisons because the opus, the subject, the opinion and what's covered by this adjective is much wider. For example, it sounds quite good – family coat of arms, family holiday, family property, family relations, but all this can be the subject of family law. It's simple, it's more comprehensive when you use that so-called. Prescription-reduced structure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12403	Anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? National MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12404	Ladies and gentlemen, support for the amendment of the People's Parliament, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic, with a few minutes of further arguments. So, with the Criminal Law or the Code, this would be the only law that has an adjective to the word law. I don't think it's a lack of arguments from the DS parliamentary group either, nor are the firm standoffs of those who defend the stance that the title of the law remains "family law". It's more psychology -- we won't, that's exactly what we're going to call it. The evidence of the thesis I present is a similar amendment to the name of the Environmental Protection Act. We suggested that it be called – the law on the environmental protection system. The amendment was rejected, of course, but the argument was – well, that's actually it, we just don't want to call it that. As an easy way away from the topic, from the day of the adoption of the Environmental Protection Act, we see that, unfortunately, we were right and then, because it cannot be applied for the reasons that we presented in the amendments. Why the law on family? Aphorists say – when the law starts to regulate your family, then there is little left in the family, but it is our job to send people a clear message from this congregation. First of all, it is probably the only law that includes every member of society and therefore is incredibly important. Why should it be the family law? Because all provisions need to be sent as a message to all in Serbia that you must not violate. If we already see from experience, from research, from the phenomenon in our society that it is not valid that we are still being taught what is done, and what is not done in the family, then it must be done by the legislator, but it is much clearer and much more accurate to call it a law on the family, because it is doing so – it prescribes where and how the state will intervene if a member or a member of the family violates one of the provisions of the law and prescribes the obligations of all those who want to create new families or to regulate their own family relations. I would like to believe that not only can psychology in terms of – but we will not, to be the reason not to accept one reasonable amendment, I call on you to accept this amendment in the voting day, for the simple reason that we all share the awareness that it is better and that it is one of the minor amendments to the text that has been prepared for a long time, and therefore this law is a good example, so something that is important for a long time is to be amended just not to be called "the law on the family", as it was in the original proposal in the public debate, but "family law". I want to believe that the speech of the arguments has facts in this hall and that is why, as a Member of the DS, I once again appeal to MPs and MPs to accept the amendment of the People's Parliament of Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović in the day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12405	Anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Bojan Kekić, Milan - Žire Jankovic and Zvonimir Stević submitted to the 1st amendment. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Zvonimir Stevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12406	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that I have submitted together with colleagues Bojan Kekic and Milan Jankovic on the first part of the first plan we put family and, for the sake of the public, it reads: "This law regulates: family, marriage, marital relations, relations in the extramarital community... "and so on. So the family is the first, most basic and most important part, either the most basic or the most important institution, which in Article 1 of the bill does not exist. Since there has been legislation on our planet, families have always been defined in legal systems as the basic cells of every society, regardless of social arrangements. Unfortunately, in recent decades, this problem has been quite neglected in our public life, and probably as a result of the difficult times behind us, which may not be. The war and sanctions, in addition to the great damage, have led us to a rather deafening fact; on average our family is seriously shaken or, rather, broken. Therefore, the legislator should think and pay more attention to strengthening and strengthening families, not to situations where the family is torn apart. Especially the socialists, as good hosts, harass us and attempt to legalise biological abnormal communities, which by nature things cannot prevent the white plague that has affected us and which is much more serious than we think at this point. That is why we have proposed an amendment to Article 1. The proposal for family law, because we Socialists believe that the role and importance of the family as a special legal category should be particularly highlighted. In fact, the white plague that has gripped us is demanding and demanding, above all, the competent ministry, the entire government and other social factors to take energetic and urgent measures to increase the birth rate, because it seriously threatens us to become a community of elderly people and minorities in our own country for a decade. It's sad to think that the rest of us sitting here are left without a pension, because they won't have anyone to earn it, because a simple bill shows that in 20 years, there will be twice as many pensioners as employees, which is the logical consequence of average families. In order to preserve and protect the family, and based on the measures we propose and seek, it is necessary to strengthen the family's economic base as the basic cell of our society. This involves providing solid material and economic resources, as well as priority in paying for a child's allowance. As an incentive for a woman's mother, which is positive in this legal project, it is envisaged to stimulate the birth of a third and fourth child. It is also necessary to provide other conditions, such as reducing the conditions for full pension and predicting the age pension for women who have given birth and are not in a working relationship. In addition to everything they have done to us and worked in Kosovo and Metohija, and especially on the agenda of national persecution and destruction, and all the torment and suffering that the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija experience, thank God, children are born. We have four of them per family, which isn't enough for Serbia, but that's one of the special reasons why this country has to take care of us in every way. And I hope that these days, personally, the president of our country has convinced himself that, I repeat, thank God, there are a lot of children in Cosmet, and let me say the most. I therefore rightly expect that the MPs will support and accept the amendment that we have tabled to Article 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12407	Thank you, Mr. Stevic. Please excuse me once again for miscalling Mr. Jankovic, I've mixed my beards. Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, The Life-giving Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12408	Dear President, dear fellow Members of Parliament, I would just like to briefly complete the wish of the SPS parliamentary group to amend this member of the law and to practically, in addition to everything that has been counted in the law, be defined as a family. Why? Well, because this is about family law, so if he regulates family relations, then we think that by analogy, if there is marriage and marital relations, it makes sense that there is family and family relations. Secondly, in this law we define what it is or, let me say, who it is is a mother, and what we all probably mean to know, so if this law defines it, why don't you define it and what family it is. Then, if we compare some international legislation, we have seen in a series of laws that have been passed so far, such as the Law on the Environment System, the Law on Energy, the Law on Medicines, etc., and where I personally have been a supporter of what the definition of something implies that we know and that the law should stand for what a cure is, I guess we know where there should be a cure, so it is said that it is common in the latest legislation that at the beginning of each law, basic definitions of all the concepts that this law covers, i.e. issues which it deals with. If that is the case, we shall only make an amendment remark that, if possible, the family is added to all the lists defined by Article 1. I must honestly admit, by reading an explanation why this amendment has been rejected by the Resort Ministry, I would be inclined to accept that explanation, precisely because there can be a very broad interpretation if it is not exactly and explicitly listed what it is and who makes it all a family and we can simply put ourselves in an awkward situation. With all this in mind, I would ask all of you to reconsider this, so that in the day of voting we can make a correct statement about the possible adoption of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12409	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12410	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, all the colleagues who spoke in the principle debate on the proposal for family law of their discussion focused on fighting or trying to fight domestic violence, on women and on children above all else. In all discussions, the SRS, since we will not vote for this law, does not want to oppose domestic violence. That's not true. We only have a different concept approach, and that was talked about by colleagues in the principle debate. We certainly think you should protect both women and children, but you have to do it another way. Also, we think we need to protect the family. What this law provides is, unfortunately, the breaking of a traditional Serbian family, no matter what anyone thinks about it. Article 1 of this bill explains everything we said in the principle debate and what we will probably say, according to the amendments. The promoter says that this law regulates: marriage and relations in marriage, relations in the extramarital community, child and parent relations, adoption, foster care, custody, maintenance, property relations in the family, protection against domestic violence, family procedures and a personal name. This is all happening in the family, but you didn't write that this law regulates the family. The amendment that I have submitted to this Article 1 on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group is that we put family first. This law regulates the family, and then all of this is listed in Article 1. It's a bill of law. It really is everything in the family. I don't see what fear of saying that we want to protect our family, that we want to regulate family relations with this law. Believe me, the argument given to me by the Government for refusing this amendment is neither convincing nor legally undermined, because the government says that "an amendment cannot be accepted for the reason that the practice of the European Court of Justice is governed by the text of the Convention on Human Rights, giving broad family interpretation depending on each particular case, not defining family as a whole. In doing so, the concept of the Family Law concept has in mind the protection of family life, where the family as a whole does not exercise rights, but the rights are achieved by family members." We Serbian radicals think the family must function as a whole. Of course, our commitment to the preservation of the family is to preserve a healthy family. We don't think, of course, that if someone is experiencing domestic harassment at all costs that such a family should survive and that a person who suffers any kind of violence should at all costs remain in the family. Of course not, but we must create conditions for the preservation of a healthy traditional Serbian family. It's the only thing we have left that we haven't been involved in, that's all we have left that they're still trying to break and then there's nothing left to trust and there's nothing left to count on. So I suggest you adopt this amendment to Article 1 that, at the beginning of the first article of this law, we say that we are thinking about family, that we want to arrange family, and through the following amendments we will speak individually, to understand what the concept approach of the SRS is to preserve family, to fight domestic violence. The basis is to strengthen the material foundation of the family. That's what the state needs to take care of, and then all the other problems will be easier to overcome.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12411	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12412	I think it is simply necessary to define the family in this law, because this is for the family the parent law and the only law in which that definition belongs. We have in our legal system several laws that speak in various ways about family. She's not defined anywhere, but there's nowhere to define her. It has to be done in parent law, in family law, and you have to know exactly what family is. This amendment, which I have proposed, reads: "Family is a community of the lives of parents and children, spouses, outside partners and other relatives living together." So this proposal included all family members. In one way, I defined it so that after all the other laws that deal with the problem of the family, it could be easier to understand and there is no confusion about it. Otherwise, if our family isn't defined, they'll come into all the laws, even in the law of the family, to all kinds of disagreements. Let's just remember how it's going to be treated when things start to process in the area of family relations. They must be clearly defined in order to be discussed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12413	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12414	On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The proposal for family law, by proposing to add a new position to Article 2 in line with Article 1, which reads: "Family is a community of the lives of parents, children and other relatives who, in the sense of this law, have mutual rights and obligations". The existing positions 1 and 2 shall become points 2 and 3. So this amendment defines family, i.e. What's most important and most sacred of us Serbs. I believe that the family, as an important institute, must pay special attention. The family should be defined and given the right place in our country's legal system. The family is a meeting of persons related to the origin, marriage and kinship, a community of parents, children, and other relatives. Our Constitution says the family is most important and enjoys special social protection, so family-law relations are regulated primarily by the Constitution. Therefore, the SRS amendment defines everything that is most important in the Serbian people, i.e. The concept of family, with rights and obligations, so please adopt this amendment to the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12415	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12416	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as usual, have no Minister when the amendments are being discussed. This means that the minister's views and views of the MPs are not at all of interest. He passed the bill, he believes that the majority of you in parliament will, without discussion, adopt this bill, and the fact that this engaged, so-called and poorly translated bill from some of the countries of Europe is going to destroy the basic cell around which the Serbian nation has been gathering so far, it seems the minister is not interested at all. National MP Bozidar Koprivica has submitted an amendment to Article 2 which reads - in Article 2 in front of Article 1, a new attitude 1 is added, which reads: "Family is a community of the lives of parents, children and other relatives who, in the sense of this law, have mutual rights and obligations". The reason for which this amendment has not been accepted is that - the amendment cannot be accepted for the same reasons as mentioned for not accepting the amendments of the People's MP Verica Radete to Article 1. That argument says - the amendment cannot be accepted because the practice of the European Court of Justice is to manage the text of the Convention on Human Rights by giving a broad interpretation of the family in relation to each particular case, not defining the family as a whole. In doing so, the concept of the Family Law concept has in mind the protection of family life, where the family as a whole does not exercise rights, but only individuals. Here's proof, if this law is passed, where the Serb family will be found as a nucleus of society, as well as Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12417	The word has the People's MP Bora Kutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12418	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am of the opinion that Mr Bozidar Koprivica's amendment should be accepted, and so is the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party which has submitted a similar amendment. The law itself is one of the most important laws in our country's legal system, and for this reason it should accept certain amendments that we have submitted to correct the text of the law itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12419	The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12420	This amendment at first sight resembles a kind of cleavage, as if it were very important to define by law what a family is, as if it were not understood. However, once the amendment has already been submitted, the proponent's explanation has arrived. From that explanation, we see that there is a huge reason why the law does not want to define family. It is said that the Convention on Human Rights provides a broad interpretation of the family, depending on each specific case, and the family as a whole is not defined. What does that mean? That means the family is a collection of individuals who live together. Thus, it does not necessarily mean that marriage or extramarital partners, children, and other relatives must exist. So any two or more people living together can define themselves as a family. Perhaps a far-reaching newspaper has been introduced to the small door, what I have already said in principle, that MPs are relieved that the promoter did not introduce this revolutionary newspaper that marriage can be made by members of the same sex. There's a hidden way of opening that possibility. So two adults of the same sex can make a family and all members of the family law can apply to them. I don't know if the promoter had that in mind, but from the explanation of the proposings and the tenacity not to accept the explicit definition of the family, such a conclusion can be drawn. I think that, on the subject of this amendment, MPs of all parliamentary groups should come forward unitedly and vote for the adoption of these amendments that require family definition, that tomorrow we are not surprised that we did not want to pass a family law that could embrace the homosexual community, and in fact, we did so on a small scale.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12421	The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12422	Ladies and gentlemen, I really think we should give the definition of family once. What's that fear of conventions? So what if they made a decree? Well, if the Americans sign a decree that they won't violate the stability of the environment, this ionizing radiation, etc.? They don't sign any conventions. Anything that doesn't suit them won't be signed. Europeans are also in a major conflict, and we do not have a very important legal institution clearly defined. Where it is defined - in the 197th term, and this relative to the attitude of the 1st meaning of the family may be etc. It can't be the definition of the same legal-sociological term once so explicit and so vulgar of our opportunities, let's say they say that persons who were or were still in an emotional or sexual relationship can be a family. Watch out, "I could be a family," "we were in a sexual relationship." It will now be a family, in the context of violence, and if it's not violence but an property debate, someone else can be a member of the family. If it's the rights and obligations of aging, then it's quite a circle. Unbelievable, very fluid. Why are we running away from one key definition of family? What's wrong with that? Who are we afraid of, what shame? Those who sit in offices and control what we write should be explained that this is a Serbian family, a tradition of such a life. Here we know who your father is, who your mother is, and when you don't know, we have a solution for that. We respect that. Our people are appalled that a father-in-law and sister-in-law can be involved in marriage, etc. What are we playing with? What's so terrible? Is that a supervisor that doesn't let us have a definition of family? Where did we come from? What if we found out what our family is in an indirect way, in a member of the violence? While you say something to someone on the street, it turns out he was in the family, that you used to be with him, so there'd be violence... If I didn't go to that other person's member who'd come, he'd be someone else's compared to Article 2. So there's a lot of reasons, when you read the law in general, to see that it's no problem at all, and that can be just one great creamworth to save ourselves from other misunderstandings and collapsies, if we agree to the definition of family. We're not looking for any special definition, we're not condemning NATO aggression, nothing, don't be afraid. We're just saying that we want to know who makes the family in Serbia, nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12423	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12424	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in the light of the current provisions of the Rules of Procedure, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3, because we believe it is necessary to provide for provisions in this article that state that the legal relationship in marriage is governed by law and that the existing positions 2 and 3 become positions 3 and 4. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we of the SRS have tabled a number of amendments to this bill, believing that the text of this law should be significantly improved. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must take the opportunity to say, on behalf of hundreds of citizens in front of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who have sought and asked the MPs of this Parliament to resolve the issue of baby theft. Associations and groups of citizens who came to the National Assembly today were also accepted by the president of the Assembly. However, this issue is not properly regulated and regulated by law. You have citizens who came today... Among other things, you see twins and in one photograph, who is interested in parents, a stolen baby, and the one who stole the baby invited the mother to be the best man at the wedding. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the right to trust these citizens because many have found their children. They have determined that some health institutions and centres for social work are involved in the issue of certain personal documents, which indicate that it was forgeries, the issue of false documents on child's death; that many citizens could not have had the child to bury him; that the Centre for Social Work was involved in some cases and informed interested in their decisions. We therefore believe that it was necessary to install into this law or predict the possibility that motherhood and paternity should not be limited at any time, because everyone has the right to establish certain facts, especially when it comes to child theft. Therefore, after the adoption of this law (in fact, if adopted) the SRS will initiate a procedure for amending and supplementing this law, to help our citizens to reach their children, although some of these children are already of age, but a citizen and a man has the right to know where his child is and has the right to ask that child from another family to come to his family. I believe that this possibility should have been anticipated and not limited in time, because in this way it seems to be a great injustice and makes it impossible for citizens to exercise their rights under the Constitution and the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12425	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Faith of Radeth, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12426	Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about this amendment, I must briefly return to that discussion in principle, which was led here on the Family Law proposal, and by the way, in the opinion of Serbian radicals, he should be called – the Family Law. So, several times it's been heard here, from MPs who will support this bill, that we now have a law that's almost a quarter of a century old. I'm asking you, is that the only fault of that law, that it's a quarter century old? Well, I suppose you who will vote for this law, as you have for all the laws you have passed, have the desire and ambition to pass laws that will long be applied. You know, it speaks to the quality of that law compared to this law. You make laws that are literally for single use. The law lasts as long as the congregation's majority. These are bad laws, for which the next congregation majority will immediately have a variant of the new law, because what you adopt will not be good for that next congregation majority. A good law is the law that lasts long. That's why I didn't realize, I didn't talk in the principle debate, but that's what my colleague Miroslav Nedeljkovic was talking about, what an evil thing it is that we have a law that's a quarter century old. True, this law has been overcome in a termological sense and could be put into order with changes and additions. But, well, you've joined a new law, we don't mind, but then let us here in parliament correct what the government has missed. You will see, this amendment and other amendments submitted by the SRS have been submitted with a sincere intention of making this law so that it can be applied and that it lasts for a long time. And you will change this law very quickly, or you will be very soon in a situation to make sure of what we are saying today, and these days, as you have convinced yourself of every law. We claim that the law is inadmissible, that it opens the door to many abuses. Unfortunately, it will all be very soon, as soon as the law begins to apply, the truth. In order for this law to really have legal content, we have proposed this amendment to Article 3, i.e. counterpart Petar Jojic, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. In addition to what you said, or what the Government said: that marriage is a legally arranged community of life for women and men (which is fine); that marriage can only be concluded on the basis of the free consent of future spouses (also fine); that spouses are equal (also fine), it is not clear why you did not accept this amendment, which says in front of all of this - legal relations in marriage are regulated by law. Why are we afraid of this being incorporated into this law? Indeed, the point is that we want to highlight the legal basis of marriage. So we don't conceptually touch what the government has imagined and what you think, you who are going to vote this law. I don't see it in the government's explanation either, and I don't think any of you here can even by any argument oppose such an amendment. Therefore, Article 3 remains as it is, but legal relations are said to be governed by law. Nothing more normal, nothing more natural. We simply want it to be more contentive, tighter, that the law has some kind of greater power. Every law has power, especially if applied equally to each and without abuse. I'm afraid with this law it won't be possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12427	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruždic-Trifunović. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from Parliamentarian Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12428	If I'm a folk MP, then I couldn't stand it. I put up with it. He said, "I'm an MP." He's got to learn. I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 and I asked that the word "conceal" be deleted from the law and replace it with the word "conceals", or the bill says, "marriage can only be concluded on the basis of the free consent of future spouses". I think it is much more appropriate that the law states that marriage can only be concluded on the basis of free statements of spouses, because I think marriage by consent of future spouses is a kind of contract. It's a contractual relationship that people conclude. In order to support why I think it is more appropriate to say that marriage is concluded than to conclude, I would also say a member of the 40th same proposal, where it is said that spouses have the right to divorce if they conclude a written divorce agreement. If a written divorce agreement is concluded, it is logical to conclude marriage. I'd have another remark that could go in favor of this attitude of mine. It is a solemn statement given in the conclusion of marriage. It is given in conclusion, not marriage, and I don't know if we're going to have to change that solemn statement. The third or fourth, which is also my remark, is that the law suggests a ministry headed by a list proposing to separate Serbia-Montenegro, and does not recognise the Constitutional Charter, and calls for a Constitutional Charter in an explanation in which my amendment has been rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12429	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kekić and Milisav - Misa Petronijevic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12430	Dear colleagues, here is another amendment, which, I am convinced, no lawyer in the state of Serbia could make a comment. In Article 4. The bill, in the first position, says: "The outsider union is a more permanent community of life for women and men, among which there are no marital interferences." So there is nowhere in this bill nor does there be any legal basis for the establishment and existence of such an extramarital community. What does that mean? If there's no legal basis, what's an actual community? I don't see why it's a problem to accept this amendment and say, "The extramarital community is a more permanent factical community of women and men's lives, among which there are no marital disturbances" and that they are out-of-marriage partners. The explanation given by the government, which is why it rejects the amendment of counterpart Milovan Radovanovic, says – the amendment cannot be accepted for reasons why the provision of Article 4. The family law proposal defines the community of women and men's lives, which, under certain conditions, recognises family-law facts, so the addition is "factual" too high. To me or not family-law facts, this isn't a legal community, it's a fact-finding community. In the follow-up to this law, we talk about the rights in the marriage community, the extramarital community, that's another topic, but just defining the union of men and women, if they're not married, and there's a legal basis for marriage, then they're in the actual community. Interestingly, the minister explained to us, when he spoke about the bill and about the extramarital community, that the length of the non-marriage community is not important, but rather the intention. The Minister's normal is gone, but I'd like someone to explain to me who it is to determine who it is. In what way will the intention be determined? Is there a greater intention than when two people agree to conclude marriage? Marriage surely concludes everyone with the intention of being a permanent community. In the meantime, something happens, marriage falls apart, so the intention absolutely existed, the intention is shown by the conclusion of marriage. The minister says, "In the extramarital community, intent is determined." It's something that won't be possible to determine, no one alive can prove whether two people can't pay separate apartments, and then live together, whether they live together because they really intend to form an extramarital community, with children and with all those characteristics of the actual marriage community. It's something that's unproven. So we Serbian radicals think the law should force marriage communities. In doing so, we don't mind that two people of different sexes decide to live in an extramarital community, but we're just asking that in law it be treated as an active community, because it is, I repeat, an active community, because it has no legal basis and is not based on some provision of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12431	People's MP Momir Markovic came to the floor. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12432	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is simply one part of the minister's phobia of amendments submitted by Serbian Radical Party MPs. Anything written, suggested, explained by the MPs of the SRS is immediately rejected. I understand the Minister's wish that, while they're in the portfolio, they bring certain laws... Well, here's the MP, Mrs. Verica Radeta, who just said that one of the mistakes of the previous law that edited this matter was that it was 25 years old. Only in history will they remain recorded for signing some law. I remember, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic was changing bills to get him to sign them, and he was ready to sign each bill individually, as much as he liked to sign. But let's get back to the law. Under the Constitution and all the laws that regulate this matter, and even this law – no matter what it is like, only if amendments of the SRS are adopted are like something and it will be applicable – there is no difference between marriages concluded in the church, the municipality and the extramarital community, in relation to rights and obligations. So, the out-of-marriage community is a fact-finding community. In the explanation given, why the Government does not accept the amendment, it is said – the amendment cannot be accepted for the reason why the provision of Article 4. The family law proposal defines the community of women and men's lives, which, under certain conditions, recognises family-law facts, so the addition is "factual" too high. The "factual" supplement is not too high and by adding "factual" this law will at least be so corrected that you can apply it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12433	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word has a National MP, Slobodan Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12434	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that no solution is optimal and precise, nor what is proposed in the law, nor what is proposed by the amendment. In fact, here in the law, it's as if there's either a marriage union or an out-of-marriage community. In practice, there will be cases of someone being married and establishing an extramarital community, by keeping the community alive on both sides. Without any seriousness, I have to say there are a lot of cases like this. His mate tolerates this extramarital union, he maintains a relationship both in marriage and out of marriage. You'd have to set a slightly sharper limit with regard to the extramarital community, considering cases like this. The issue has not been resolved either by amendment or by the draft law. We point to danger.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12435	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Anita Beretic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Anita Beretic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12436	Dear Chairman, this is Article 5, which will cross our political views on the subject - individual freedom, the freedom of citizens, the freedom of the citizen. We have suggested that instead of the text offered, "Everyone has the right to freely decide on birth" is the view: "A woman freely decides on birth." In an explanation provided by the Government and based on whom it refuses to accept this amendment practically, it states, among other things, that the formulation is given in the draft law, which reads: "Everyone has the right to freely decide on birth" in accordance with the widely accepted technique of writing rules governing human rights. For example, in Article 1(2). The Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties (and quote): "Everyone has the right to freely develop his personality, provided he does not violate the rights of others covered by this Charter". Or, Article 12: "Each one has the right to the inviolability of physical and psychological integrity"; or, "Each one has the right to personal freedom and security" and so on. So there's nothing controversial about it. In our opening explanation and offer of our arguments, I referred to the use of the principal language level of the general noun "everyone". So this sub in sentences means a set of often very diverse beings. We claim and tend to think that every legal provision is as valid as it will first paint the situation of life or even predict it. The birth decision is one of the most important, if not the most important decision, and if the law has the ambition to define and achieve the conditions for good decision making, then we believe that it should be adapted to absolute life experience. So, in all kinds of relationships between partners, we want to believe and to argue that the largest number of decisions have been made and agreed together. It's by the nature of things and it's the best and the easiest. Each of us or the largest number of us has been going through it. So we have a wish, before the child is conceived, to have a child. But also in ideal relationships between partners, when a child is more than wanted and expected, that last decision to stay in a different state, and when it is left for the child to be born, must, by nature, be made by a woman. So, in ideal circumstances. About those other circumstances, I don't think we should talk too much, let's assume they're even-willed. I'm afraid that if the motionary stays in the formulation that everyone has the right to decide on birth, we open the mentioned door and leave the natural right of the woman to the choice in the hands of many others who enter the term "everyone". At the same time, it is not by chance to remind you, there is a series of campaigns that aim to limit freedom of choice, namely restricting women's right to decide on abortion, or a complete ban on abortion. The topic has been very carefully avoided in the principle debate for two days. It's a subject we should specifically discuss. I apologize to the chairman, please include the time I quoted, I'll just extend a little bit. This restriction of the right to abortion or ban on abortion, as it already goes, we are witnessing, through the media very intensively for several days, cannot be the definition of a proposing such a modern law and cannot be a measure of population policy. According to many studies, 500 women die of unprofessional, illegal abortions per day in the world. For a hundred days it's 50,000 women, a year it's 180,000 women. Please consider this proposal and this figure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12437	The first MP, Miroslav Nedeljkovic, came to the floor, and we'll be in a row.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12438	This Article 5, which says, "Everyone has the right to freely decide on birth," is really not good, is not well formulated. I would like to support Mrs Beretic here that this "everyone" can mean nothing and it can mean anything. I couldn't agree that the law explicitly states, "A woman is free to decide on birth." The most acceptable would be the formulation: "The spouses feel free to decide on birth." This does not mean that anyone from the SRS comes to the idea that a woman is deprived of the right to freely decide on birth, but it is not explicitly necessary to regulate relations between spouses in the area of childbearing. Serbian society is an emancipated society, a woman is emancipated. It's one process and I don't think he can go back. There are some acquired, acquired freedoms and women's rights in Serbian society, and we are passing a law on Serbian society, not for an uncivilised African tribe, where women should now be provided right in this area. The right woman in Serbian society already has, and it is unnatural that the law now explicitly suggests to a woman that a husband, a marriage partner, has absolutely no right under the law to have an opinion on it. So we haven't submitted an amendment to this article. We believe that it should be said: "The spouses are free to decide on birth", but the amendment that Mrs Beretic has submitted is closer than the wording "Each has the right to freely decide on birth".
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12439	The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović, and then Slobodan Pajovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12440	First I would answer this: "marriages", why can't spouses. Imagine, he's taking a temporary measure and he's asking for an abortion ban because the woman decided to have an abortion. Is that what he decides or does he decide? This was a depression, and you pulled me out to actually make a point that this "woman" is more appropriate, because it's the only one, exclusively the right of a woman. Since I agree with everything that has been said so far, of course, I support absolutely everything Mrs. Beretic said, I would like to comment on the answer we received from the Ministry why we cannot. It also calls on the Charter of Human Rights and says it states, explicitly, that everyone has the right to freely develop their personality. Of course, I'm the only one who can decide about my personality and it's logical that it says so in the Charter. They say: "Everyone has the right to the inviolability of physical and psychological integrity", and is considered – their physical integrity. They say, "Everyone has the right to personal freedom... "We here say that everyone has the right to decide freely. That means the Academy of Science, and the mother-in-law and the SPC, so let me also say the Islamic Religious Community, for discrimination. So the word "everyone" absolutely can't, but all these others are better and more appropriate. Even the Constitution, which we believe should change from the foundation, has a better formula than this advanced law; it says: "It is the right thing for a man to freely decide on the birth of children. "So that would be better for someone "everyone." As far as the Constitutional Charter is concerned, it does not treat birth in any way, except through Article 39, where it says in another position: "The mother's right to support and protect the Member States in the legal period prescribed before and after birth is guaranteed. "He simply in some descriptive and bypassive way supports the birth and decision of the mother. Otherwise, the Charter does not treat birth in any other place in its text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12441	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Pajovic, then Momir Markovic, then Gordana Komic. Well, we'll do it in a row, 'cause there's a lot of reports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12442	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment tabled by MP Anita Beretic reads: "A woman is free to decide on birth. "The legal norm provided for by the Bill of Family Law reads: "Anyone has the right to freely decide on birth. "This formulation in the bill is unclear, incomprehensible, inaccurate, inanimate. It is only normal and natural for a woman to decide on birth, and this should have been clearly and precisely emphasized in the law, how it is, after all, and foreseen by this amendment. The explanation that the wording "everyone has the right" is a technical formulation, which is commonly used, is unacceptable because such a formulation is used only in cases where an unlimited number of natural and legal persons are involved. However, in a case like this, everyone has the right and anyone who proves legal interest has the right to decide on birth, it could be interpreted as, say, sports society, neighbors, mother-in-law or someone else's decision to give birth. In this case, the question would be raised as to what kind of legal protection is and how can a legal standard be achieved in this way, so it would mean that a lawsuit or a temporary measure can be filed to prevent abortion by any person. At the very end of the line, this formulation in the bill creates a confusion, so that other aspects are not commented, so it would be necessary to accept the DS amendment. In the principle debate, however, the minister has just arrived and I think he will accept these arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12443	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12444	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, there is no good solution provided for by the bill or amendment. The decision envisioned by the law says, "Everyone has the right to decide on birth. "What does it mean, everyone? What does the MP say, you want to ask your neighbor if you're going to have children? On the other hand, it is not possible to leave it to a woman to decide on birth, for marriage is made up of family and children to be born. Marriage meets the ultimate goal of rejuvenating. Today, when there is a white plague in Serbia, when the birth rate is far below the mortality rate, various networks, and I suppose that various Hellsinian committees, women in black and all the rest of the NGOs, as you beat them, have failed to submit the amendment, and they have no right to submit the amendment, will decide whether children will be born. Marriage mates decide, and I think that's the solution in the previous law, the birth of a child. Not only can a father, not only a mother, but not everyone can. So we're already starting with the third and fourth members, and we're getting into a situation where some illogicalities can't even be corrected by amendments, so I suggest that the minister withdraw this law and correct it at least in these elemental members and bring it to one of the next sessions, so we vote on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12445	Right on line, MP Anita Beretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12446	I don't think we understand each other well enough. So we're on a great path to bring our attitudes closer together. First, of course, it is not possible to formulate (from the unsustained amendment) – spouses, because what about life situations where birth decisions should be made by partners who are not in the marriage community. We'd already have problems with such a possible formulation. The extramarital community also means making a joint decision. In some ways, I suppose the relationship between the partners is perfectly fine and that pregnancy is planned, wanted and expected, and in these conditions women must make a final decision. Let's go to those, let's hope, a few more life situations, where it's discussed, based on desire, pregnancy. We have to face reality, there is and there is a being. Of course, a number of factors before this situation should already be launched in society, not to open the topic now, and it is very close, both to the education system and to health care and accessibility to contraceptives, everything. These situations happen. None of us here, who are going to make a statement about this, can take the liberty of making a decision to end a woman's pregnancy. So, even in these situations, or, rather, especially in those situations where pregnancy is not mutually desired. We've been talking a lot these days about these relations within the family, marriage, the out-of-marriage community. An unwanted pregnancy, an unwanted child born under pressure, when it is not the strength of an honest, self-willed woman, partner and wife, Nucleus is a future unfavorable situation related to family relations. It is a very common source of domestic violence in many relationships.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12447	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12448	I'm sorry, maybe I wasn't clear enough in my discussion, so Mrs. Beretic didn't get me very well, so she misread me. I'm not talking about situations in an out-of-marriage community, although even in an out-of-marriage community, I guess that couple has to decide about kids. I'm not talking about situations where a woman is not married, and she wants to have a offspring. It's her right to decide for herself. I am also talking about the marriage and the extramarital community, whose primary goal is, in the extreme line, progeny and the extension of the species. Normally, when it comes to health reasons to stop pregnancy being one of the ways to preserve women's health... But if we leave this attitude in the law, where anyone can decide, it means everyone and no one, it literally means nothing. The law does not define this problem here, but if we adopt the amendment of Mrs. Beretic, then we will come into a situation, because some of the members still have what goes on - if you are harassed, if your wife reports you, or if you are a member of any non-marriage community, then she can accuse you that you are harassing her because you want a offspring, and she will not, so you are left without a house that is your grandfather's. If this law wants to regulate this matter, then we have to discuss these things in law-making.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12449	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12450	Ladies and gentlemen, support in the argument for the amendment, submitted by MP Anita Beretic to the chapter - Birth, mother and child, Article 5 of Section 1 which reads: "Each one has the right to freely decide on birth". It is clear from previous discussions that we have a problem interpreting who everyone is. If "everyone" is just a man and woman who want offspring, then the legislator should have made that clear and then we would have talked about it, but he didn't. It's written -- everyone. I believe deeply, and I think it's a woman's human and natural right to decide on birth, and that's it. There is no legal provision, unless we are going to reduce all acquired rights, human rights and women's human rights, to which you can force a free, commercially capable adult in society not to give birth, if he wants to give birth, or to give birth if he won't. It's a question of our definition of whether this law is actually going to require that we have the legal regulation of it. the women about her herself. Nowhere does accepting this amendment endanger a man's right to participate in a birth decision. Since I've been talking to experts for weeks, with those who took part in writing this law, with NGOs who supported and funded the making of this law, regardless of what I know to be their life profile, and certainly not for freedoms in decision making, with lawyers who deal with this topic, and no one has provided an argument that would justify the noun "everyone". I'll tell you the argument I heard. The word "everyone" means a man. Why? Because he has the right to treatment from sterility, to sterilization, to give consent to out-of-body insemination and to notify that his child has been conceived. Its rights, except that they are part of other laws, so treating the sterilities or giving consent to out-of-body fertilisation, can be the subject of debate in this assembly if we want to raise the level of the state's budget share in this and thus encourage those who have a fertility problem to be treated free of charge, paid by society. If we talk about consent of will, with the argument that it's not just birth here, but birth as a process, then we can talk about consent of will from the moment that partners (marriage, nonmarriage) enter into some kind of relationship, agree that they want to extend their kind, because I deeply believe that our children are our immortality, in fact, and at that point a man has the same rights as a woman. The moment the birth decision was made, you legally prescribe what she will do with her body. There is no threat to the right of a man anywhere, and it cannot be compromised. If it were threatened, I would ask first to remove any threat to the acquired right of conception, to give birth, to raise children, to discuss family relations. A particular problem, except that there is no argument, and besides that we agreed that the word "everyone" here is only a problem, and it doesn't explain the law -- what are you going to do with everyone's right, with that corpus of rights in cases where a woman wants to have a child, and a partner - a man won't have that child born? Who will he address for the satisfaction of his rights? To whom he will go and say, "Article 5 states that everyone has the right to decide, I do not decide." It doesn't matter if they're in a marriage, out of wedlock, or any relationship. There is no institute to satisfy the right you prescribe, so you mean it's about being a man and a woman. Our request is to show legal and political courage and to show by voting for this amendment that we recognise reality. You can't legally prescribe what a woman will do with her body. In conversations with all of us here, in the end, there is always someone who makes the decision on birth – a woman makes a decision. Let's be human, so let's keep it in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12451	The Messenger of the people, Natasha Micic, has the word, and then the messenger of the people is Dacin the Living One.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12452	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I support all the arguments made here in favour of the amendment that only a woman can freely decide on birth. It's a shame, Mr. Minister, you haven't heard them all since you haven't been in the O.R. since the beginning. So, the arguments for an amendment that says that a woman can freely decide on birth can be classified, first of all, into a biological and natural argument that only a woman is able to give birth, so when everyone can have a baby, then let everyone decide. Secondly, these reasons can be grouped into ethical and legal-political. One of the ethical reasons is that a woman can only be an entity, and certainly not an object of any policy, especially developmental, or populational. I support all the arguments put forward here in favour of the amendments that only a woman can decide on birth and I am not surprised that she is a legislator, or the government suggests that anyone can decide on birth, including the Government. The increased "care" of women is just talking about how, in fact, someone in Serbia is afraid that women are deciding or even having a baby. I would say that these are those who are looking for a lost national identity, who want to keep Serbia as a backward, conservative, patriarchal, clerical, misogyny. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope we agree on a completely natural right – that only a woman can decide on birth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12453	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, The Life-giving Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12454	Dear Vice-President, Mr. Minister, dear fellow MPs, we have heard a series of arguments that, I say, all MP groups have agreed - that in the part of the birth, mother and child law there is one, let me say, the most ridiculous definition, which is that everyone has the right to freely decide on birth. Who's "everyone"? Do you all have the right to decide whether I want to have a baby or not? Or... Let's not be apostrophe now and hypothetically set up who can do all this. Then, he says - the amendment cannot be accepted because the term "birth" is broader than the term "birth". Of course, but we're not referring to the birth of the sun, we're thinking about the birth of what's most important to us, and it's a child. Indeed, I absolutely agree and sign that this is true, that each of us has the right to freely develop our personality, to the inviolability of physical and psychological integrity. I think, above all, as a woman, that we should and appeal to all in the assembly to support this amendment. Of course, I have to say that I'm not saying that because I'm a feminist, not even because I'm a member of the Committee on Gender Equality, because someone can and can thus interpret, that we women, as such, want to fight for our rights. On the contrary, we fought for everything we've done on the Committee on Gender Equality to be in the interest of men at risk. Definitely in this law must stand – a woman. Of course, it is understood that the act of birth, the offspring, is one of the most normal consequences of two people wanting to enter either a marriage or an out-of-marriage community, and probably the desire of all of us to live through our children, as we do through our parents; even though they are gone, we are what is left of them. The law does not mean the start regulation of a woman, whether she has the right to give birth or has no right to give birth, but in the event of any disputed moments, when such protection should be sought before the court. In all other things, probably all of us, by the most normal definitions, we mean both family, and children and all of those relationships regarding all of what this law means. We in the SPS parliamentary group really feel that this is a very good law, with a number of good solutions, but in this article and in one later, where we have submitted the amendment, a single definition has been created that practically defines nothing, because who is who under that "everyone" can mean anything. Does everyone have the right to ask a woman without having a wife at all, to give her the right to give birth? Or, not to talk about our habits, if a woman gives birth seven times to a girl, but she should be a man, then as long as the woman doesn't wear out and completely endangers herself, she has to have a baby, even if she doesn't have a boy. So we need to be aware of the situation we're in, to look at all the relationships, customs and habits that exist with us. We've had a series of examples of people starting a marriage, living in a marriage, and, say, after a couple of years, they both decide they don't have kids. There's someone who can get involved on one side or the other. (A voice from the O.R.: A neighbor. I'm really serious about this, and you're probably going to say who can get involved and who can't because children aren't born. Not to say that it can lead to a threat to the institution of the family, because when they start messing around on the side, there's mostly no success. We can all caricate every member of this law, interpret it one way or another, but I think this is a much more appropriate solution than it was offered in law, if such a clause should exist in law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12455	The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12456	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, we believe that it is a fundamental issue which addresses the amendment to Article 5. It's a bill of law. For that reason, it takes almost half an hour to discuss this issue. The DS believes the proposed amendment is a civilization step that the state of Serbia should take on this issue. The existing formulation, which is also said by a number of previous colleagues, which says everyone has the right to decide on birth, you will agree, is completely unclear and too general. I am right to ask the question of who is "everyone" and by whom did the "every" legislator predict, what are those faces? Are those the oldest ones in the family, are they the mother-in-law or the mother-in-law, is it the local priest, is it someone who really doesn't have the right to deal with this issue, to a mother-in-law, or a woman? We have had a number of objections and I respect both sides, and the arguments that we have heard in favour of justifying our amendment and the arguments about challenging our amendment, the arguments that we have had by Mr. Minister, but I urge that we show enough courage and willingness to address this issue in an adequate manner. Once again, I am undermining a civilizedly important question – the natural right of a woman, or mother, is to decide on birth. There's no one else but her. In this regard, we do not go to law on family free planning, because this article and this amendment are not disturbed. Also, this amendment respects all the sensitivity of the issues we had in the principle debate on gender equality. With this amendment and the solution that we have proposed, it does not threaten, because with this question, I say once again, it does not concern itself. So once again I want to appeal to the minister to show enough readiness and courage to accept our amendment, to step one step forward together and show that there is enough energy and strength here to regulate one of these essential issues in a valid way. I once again appeal and call upon the Minister to accept this amendment. If we do not have enough understanding, I would once again ask all fellow Members to pay attention to this amendment and to Article 5. The bill, in order to regulate this issue in the only possible natural way, respecting the right of a woman to decide on birth alone.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12457	People's MP Milan Markovic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12458	Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, I'm looking at the clock right now, for more than 50 minutes we've been discussing the amendment to Article 5 of the Law. Members of the three parliamentary groups have been reporting on this issue. I'm not going back to the arguments that were made here, because I think they're completely clear. Normally, I totally agree with everything that's been said in favor of the solution that's been given in law not being right. As far as the amendments are concerned, he's the only reflection of the state of play, because if we're real and we look at life, so who else decides whether to give birth to a child rather than a woman. So, what happens to the child if we make the woman have it? We can talk about deciding spouses, although I don't think this term is right, because "marriages" – that's a technical question; parents are a biological question, so you would probably correct it in – parents. But in the end, what and when one will, and the other won't, is the last word on the woman again. God forbid a child is born that a mother won't. There's nothing worse. Since this debate is going on for almost an hour, I would really like to ask Mr. Secretary, I think we deserve your answer to the pay phone. The argument given in the explanation of your rejection of the amendment is not adequate. They explained it in the right way. Practically, any MP who came out here, whether he supported or did not support the amendment, suggested that the solution to the law was not adequate. I would really like to ask the minister, the MPs deserve, more than 15 MPs discussed this amendment, to tell us now whether you accept or do not accept the amendment. I sincerely hope that you will accept this amendment, given that it is in line with your party's programme, and in the end with your previous aspirations and, in any case, with the co-operation that you have achieved with the parliamentary clubs and when you pass the previous law, and that co-operation has indeed been high. So I'm really asking you to accept this amendment. It doesn't take a lot of courage. It's just a matter of logic. The word "everyone" doesn't answer. If you had kept a solution from the Constitution, it might be possible, but of all the solutions we've heard here, even from the spouses, this solution that is now in the law is really the most vague and perhaps the worst that you could put. I agree with you, you are probably led by this general definition that constantly appears when it comes to rights, but the fact that here, as counterpart Ruzdić explained, is really about a slightly different law, which deserves a slightly different definition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12459	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here is the word of the Messenger of the people, Snježana Stojanović - Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12460	Thank you. I've reported that I'm talking about this amendment, although I wasn't convinced that so many arguments are needed for an amendment that is completely understandable and that I believe we'll all support it. But after all this debate, I think I need to say a few more things. I am convinced that the Ministry, which has proposed such a good law, a modern law, with such solutions, absolutely had no intention of restricting this member's right to give birth to a woman or to freedom of birth. I am convinced that this is only a matter of awkwardness, and in this sense I am sure that at the end of this debate, the minister will support our intention to make this more precise and clear, because it is clear that the provision "everyone" right can be defined to mean – anyone. And everyone absolutely can't decide on the birth of a child. I think it is quite clear that there are almost no MPs in this hall who would return to a situation where women's birth rights would be limited, since we have heard that most MPs support the currents of modern society, the civilizational fluids that speak of being absolutely the woman who decides to give birth to a child. Of course, at the end of the line, and in those cases when it's impossible to reach an agreement between partners. It is also clear that the G17 plus parliamentary group believes that a better solution might be that in agreement with the female partner finally decides on the birth of a child. Of course, as we have already heard from several arguments, the most normal and best situation in which partners together make a decision on the birth of a child, and that raising a child within the framework of a partnership, whether it is a marriage or an extramarital community, is the best solution for its growth and development. And of course the best solution is when a child is wanted by both parents. Unfortunately, there are many different situations. And in this situation it is very clear and should be defined who makes the final decision in such cases. I think it's the right of a woman guaranteed in our society a long time ago, that it's something that most of us women in this country have been born with, that it's a right that is simply innate to all of us, and I think it's really pointless to think right now, at this point, about the possibility of this right being abolished. But I wouldn't agree with the arguments that say it's impossible for one of the rights that we have at one point to lose. It's possible, unfortunately. It's especially possible, I think, at this point, in our society, to think about it. That is why it is clear that it is necessary to define precisely and to say that it is the right inalienable right of a woman and therefore I fully support the amendment that the colleague has submitted, and of course I will vote for that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12461	Anyone else want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP, Blagica Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12462	Thank you. We can't call the law pro-European unless we accept the amendment. That's the essence of what I can say. In all laws concerning this area, pro-European, it is the right of a woman to decide on birth. Eventually, we said it was the right partner. That's all I have to say. It definitely has to remain the right of a woman to decide. We're considering an extreme case when we need to apply the law. Who is this "everyone"? Grandma, Grandpa? Who are these people? So we definitely have to stay on the point that it's only a woman's right to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12463	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Natasa Jovanovic has tabled an amendment proposing that the word "minister" in the corresponding drop be replaced by "ministration" in article 12, paragraph 3 and in all other members. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word for Natasa Jovanovic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12464	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's when we want to help the minister within his section of the ministry he won't accept it. That's why he refused this amendment that I filed on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. It is not only the ministry of Mr Lalovic, but the principled position and the commitment of the SRS that, when it comes to rules and other sublaws, it should be taken into account by the competent services, i.e. the chiefs of staff in the ministries, not the minister. We invited Mr. Lalovic, and in many other laws, here is the Privatisation Act, which will come on the agenda, to Article 71. The State Administration Act. The SRS did not vote in favour of this law, and indeed our advice is to you and to any other minister, as well as the intention of correcting it, above all, the State Administration Act, which was changed during the previous DOS government, which gave such an opportunity, only to a much greater extent, the finance minister, and this is now inherited by Dinkic. We believe there may be numerous abuses by the minister, and it is unnecessary. This is about the custody organ, so I'm gonna take this opportunity... I think this clear and reasonable argument for Article 3 is enough for you to finally accept this amendment of mine. When it comes to the body of custody and the affairs of family protection, to help the family and custody, which in the sense of this law is a social work centre, I would take the opportunity to say something about the situation in Kragujevac, from which I come, and then about the Centre for Social Work in the City of Belgrade. There are some examples that aren't the rule, but they're worrying, and it's about the work of the social work center. Whatever you take, and that's the subject of consideration, as the custody authorities, the social work centre, Mr. Minister, and in one part if there are abuses, and indeed there are, we can never say, we have numerous objections to the judiciary, that all judges are bad, dark jobs; most of them are responsible, honest and honest people. And so here, when it comes to this area, we come up with some fragrant knowledge, which is what our presses often write about. That's what you should be dealing with, as a resolute minister, before you take care of sublegal acts, which I suggest you transfer to the Ministry in general. I'll give you one of the examples. For example, a child who does not have parents, who is from Kragujevac transferred to Zvecanska to Belgrade, because of various ways of obstruction and unconscious behaviour (that is just an example, so hypothetically speaking, there may not be such a case that from Kragujevac was brought to Zvecanska), because of various abuses, which are unsettled, I underline, by employees at the Centre for Social Work, because the Centre for Social Work in Kragujevac needs to give consent to the adoption of such a child, and performs obstruction, waits for who knows how many months and sometimes years. It is the same case when it comes to one of the jobs of family protection, assistance and custody, which is done here by the custody body; in a later member of the 21st, Dr Miroslav Nedeljkovic suggested that, when it comes to marriage between Tazbean relatives, the opinion of the custody authority, or the social work centre, be obtained first. You said it was completely unnecessary, because it's full-aged, grown-up people and they can decide for themselves. It's not like that, because you know it's not a normal situation. Paragraph 2 states that the court may, under certain circumstances, decide to approve the conclusion of such a marriage. You know for yourself that there are either extreme cases, which are of benefit, first of all, when it comes to adolescence, usually foreign pensions or severe mental problems between persons who decide to take such a step. It is therefore amazing why they are not, firstly, defined by the law of basic terms – what is a family, as the SRS has suggested, and in the custody authorities – why it does not take part in solving such large problems that are happening in practice. You know what your associates used to explain – you know, it's so rare that it's unnecessary and pointless to talk about it. Any such phenomenon, for itself, is an extreme case, but let me tell you, this is the situation in many social work centres throughout Serbia. I listed only an example of the Center for Social Labour of the Municipality of Rakovica, or Novi Belgrade, I know of some two fresher cases, concerning custody, where the centre appears as an organ of custody. Some employees, alleged experts in the area, routinely solve problems brought before them by family members, very concerned about the further survival of the family. Why do I have to explain this further to you when you didn't want to help yourself by accepting this amendment? How can I explain to you, when you didn't want to accept the SRS amendment to define what a family is at the beginning, then we could continue to talk about the role of the custody body in the family, which has organized and defined relations, which this law didn't do at the very beginning.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12465	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12466	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, through this amendment, which was submitted on behalf of the SRS by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic and through other amendments, wherever the word "minister" is mentioned in the law, in the decision-making process, we ask that it be amended and that it be a ministry, so institutions. The reason is very simple: since the start of the multi-party, therefore, in the 1990s, several ministers, at least that's how I remember, after the successful term of office, they were in prison, or during the term of office, because of abuse. Because of the abuse in the previous government, after the "buldozer of the revolution", many ministers deserve to be in prison. I expect this government will call for the criminal responsibility of all those involved in human rights violations of 12,000 people, to direct participation in criminal activities. I expect the government to call these ministers and call them to account. If this government does not do so, the next government, which will mainly be composed of representatives of the SRS, will call for responsibility for all crimes. That's why we're asking for Article 12 of Section 3, where the "Minister" says to be changed and "Ministership". Not only in this article, but still in all the members, especially those relating to adoption, of the right of foreigners to adopt children born in Serbia, who are of Serbian origin, of the Serb root, because we will be in a situation that the minister will be able to trade easily (the trade of children is very diverse throughout the world), and this way, when the institution -- the ministry makes a certain decision, will be a little harder. After all, because of similar things and similar events, here are a few dozen who have been blacked out by a former regime, stealing from them, stealing their offspring; standing with banners. I don't want to allow this or any future ministers... In doing so, when I said we would call for responsibility, I didn't mean Minister Lalovic, there are many bigger ones than he who will be held accountable.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12467	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12468	So what we did when we passed the Law on Education, on primary and secondary education, when we formed national educational councils, and everything else we wanted to do to get a little minister out of power, not to give him so much information, we're trying now with this amendment. In fact, he's extremely logical to me, since there are professional people in the Ministry, even if there are profiles that come into the body of custody. It must be a lawyer, a defectologist, a psychologist, a pediatrician, a social worker or some other professions, etc. No one can convince me that the minister will have so much mental power and so much knowledge of things that he will be able to sit himself down with his cabinet to provide professional instructions, normative acts and anything else that is necessary to make some kind of social work centre work well. We see that in this law there is a tendency to turn aside the role and importance of the social work centre. That's not right. These are precisely people who are business-holders and should be someone from their profession, profiles, areas of interest and knowledge of fundamental issues to be involved in writing professional standards for their work. No one can do it better, because it must have been de facto and it was done by bringing it to the minister. Mr. Lalovic sat down to write himself professional rules for the work of very complex teams, where people are expertly oriented to work on the problem. It's simply impossible to unite five special professions in one man. So, this megalomania of uniting ministries and ministerial competencies is a quality of government and we want to cut it there. Nothing will be terrible, you will adopt some much more serious members, in which the minister, as we have heard, even if he writes programmes for the education of adoptors, for foreign citizens. How is that stranger going to pass that test in English to see how similar he is? It's a lot hollower, there's a lot to open up suspicion. We're trying to at least on this field, as far as every local environment, where custody authorities are concerned, to help them do it for them (when they're not already doing it alone on some colloquium, at some professional seminars) does someone at the Ministry who does it and who knows it well, that we take it out of a man's hands. That is the meaning of the amendment, and I suggest you support this amendment and vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12469	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović has tabled an amendment proposing to amend the title of Chapter 1 in the second part of the bill, above Article 15. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meho Omerovic have submitted a joint amendment, with an amendment, which they propose to subtitle in the second part of the bill after Article 16: "Constructions for marriage". The government suggests that this amendment is not accepted, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment, with a correction, be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with the correction, is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has Minister Slobodan Lalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12470	First, let me say that the government accepts this amendment by Meha Omerovic and Ljiljana Nestorovic, but I didn't answer for it, it's just one detail. I wanted to say a few things. The most debate here was, and that's what I want to comment on, about the amendment to Article 5. It's a question that exists. First, let me say - certainly I am the last man to propose a member who would restrict the right of a woman to give birth freely. To be clear, there were some of those connotations. What's wrong with this member here... I'll read you article 27. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. There's a misunderstanding here about interpretation, which means what it says here. Article 27. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says, "It is right for a man to freely decide on the birth of children." Let's translate - a man is free to decide on the birth of children. Who's the man? The man is both a woman and a man. So from that point of view, the problem with this amendment is that it could, with full right, be assessed as unconstitutional if we accepted this "woman freely decides", because it is contrary to Article 27. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So I'm pointing to a problem. We just have a common problem. Another important thing, actually, about this, why is there a man in the Constitution, not a woman or a man, but a man includes both a man and a woman? Well, just because of the issue of equality, that's the basic idea of the Constitution. So, by accepting this amendment, men would be brought into an unequal position. So, compared to Article 27. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is a real problem for all of us. If we wanted to adopt the amendment, we have a problem, because tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, someone is going to start a trial before the Constitutional Court to challenge a member that we would now adopt here. Of course, what I'd like to say is that the main misunderstanding is just about interpretation. This is about a language term that is common when it comes to principles, principles. So that's our Constitutional Charter: there's a number of places with the word "everyone," and if we wanted to do a malignancy analysis, we could say about some other things there in the Constitutional Charter to say -- so how come not everyone can do that, that can't be someone. I have a very good intention. The aim of the bill promoter was not at one point that, as certain fears are expressed here, a woman would be disproved to decide whether to give birth, so that someone else would be able to decide, not a woman; therefore, in the sense of whether she wanted to give birth or not. It's not at all the diction and connotation of this member. That's what I'm trying to explain to all of you. I have a very good intention, but we have a simple problem and constitutional nature and essential nature. This is absolutely not what this member wanted, nor does this member mean at all, nor can it mean, as some colleagues have said, that, for example, the local priest can, in that sense. It is completely wrong to interpret members from those who comment on it. That's what I'm trying to explain to all the MPs. In the meantime, I'm doing some further consultations on this amendment of yours, which is about this problem, because I think it's very bad for me to come out here and say I accept the amendment, which is the opposite of the Constitution. We just have a problem. So, I'm doing some extra consulting. I think we'll have a clear view of the legal nature this afternoon, on the basis of Article 27. Serbia's constitution can be adopted like this. I'm talking about my intention, if possible, but the problem is that it's not possible. It seems to me that it has gone too far in that direction to interpret the concept of this provision, because I can now take the Constitutional Charter to read to you at five, six, seven, eight places, where the word "everyone" is used, and we will each ask ourselves together – this is not good, why it is not stated who everyone is. I'm simply pointing to the problem and I think it's a common problem. I think, too, that this provision of a member of the law does not in any way restrict the right of a woman to freely decide whether to give birth or not. That's not what this member means. There's actually that problem. I completely understand, the representatives of various parliamentary groups came out, they have their own position, it can be formed, and most of them in the Assembly, I have nothing against it. I am merely pointing to how, besides the MPs, I am also ultimately responsible for what law will be passed, pointing to the problem of constitutional and legal nature, and I think that the provision of the Constitution also shows the fundamentality of this amendment. It's pretty clear what this is all about. "It is right for a man to freely decide on birth," the constitution said. We say here - everyone is free to decide on birth. With no interpretation of this article, it cannot be denied the right of a woman to freely decide whether she wants to give birth or not. Simply, this member doesn't mean that, I just have a duty and a need to explain it to you, but I also point to these other problems. Of course, I say, after this break today, I will carry out further consultations with the Republic legislation and some other bodies, simply to make it clear to the end. So this government certainly does not intend to limit women's right to make free birth decisions by proposing this legal solution. It's the last thing this government wants, and I want it myself. Just so we understand each other. I don't think this member means that. It's just like that. Just one more sentence, since this article 5 was particularly important, so I wanted to comment on it now. These are two things that are repeated here about what the minister is making some regulations, etc. It's done as said here in Article 71. The law of the state administration; when this law is changed for something, then someone else will. It is clear that in the Ministry, when it comes to this department – family and children, there are 27 people in three departments, experts doing this job. Basically, these sublegal acts come to me for signing. I look, but of course I trust professional people. So it does not bring it literally to the minister, nor can it, under the law. One more thing, there's a little misunderstanding about it, it's repeatedly repeated why the law doesn't define the concept of family. There's one practical and general reason. The practical reason is that the subject of protection in this law is not family, but family members, so there is no need, from the aspect of this law, to even enter into defining the concept of family, because it is not a subject being treated, elementally and logically. Secondly, you all know that when it comes to the concept of family, as a rule, certain laws specifically regulate the concept of family for use when it comes to this law; for example, the Labour Act regulates in one way, and the other law in another way. I mean, that remark is unfounded. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12471	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Did you accept this amendment on behalf of the government? If I understand correctly, you accepted, on behalf of the Government, the amendment of Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meha Omerovic. Since the minister has accepted the amendment, the Health and Family Committee, and in order for the amendment to become an integral part of the bill's proposal, must accept the amendment, and if not, it will be decided on in the voting day. First, Parliamentarian Milan Markovic reported on his behalf.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12472	Thank you. I'll be very brief, and I thank the Minister for paying attention to our arguments and I hope that in the break you will come to a different attitude. No one here wanted to honor any intention, far from it. I don't think there's that kind of score at all. I would say that from the point of view of the Constitution, it is to a greater extent to use the term "everyone" than the term "woman." I'd like to ask you to consider this aspect with your colleagues from the Legislative Secretariat. If we already want to enter the constitutional assessment, I think it is less controversial to use the term "woman", because it is said that a woman decides freely on the birth of a child, and there is no exclusion of spouses, or biological father in the decisions itself, on whether there will be conception, etc. If we were to push the max out, I think we could put a lot more objections in terms of constitutionality, because someone might say that term involves both legal and physical persons, and faces outside the circle of biological parents, etc. I'd ask you to consider those arguments as well when you speak at this break at 1400 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12473	National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic, a replica of the minister's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12474	I have to answer and replicate to Mr. Minister, but this has happened because he has not heard all our statements in relation to the amendment of Mrs. Beretic. We have instructed all these reasons from the Charter which are your explanation of why the word "everyone" was used. When you think that "everyone" refers to his personality, it's not everyone but his personality and that everyone has the right to the inviolability of physical and psychic integrity, which is mine, not yours. At birth, it refers to a birth decision. A decision can be made by anyone, and when it means everyone, not a woman. As far as the Constitution is concerned, it's not against the constitution. A member of the Constitution says, "It is right for a man to freely decide on the birth of children." A woman is a man. Why would a man want that right if he can't use it? It's just a rope. You are not to restrict women's rights, and it is not to restrict women's rights; it is to give justice to all. Not everyone can decide that. We demand that the right we can exercise and enjoy it, only we can, only women can use it, and that everyone can't get an extension of rights that they can't use in any way.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12475	Thank you. On what grounds? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12476	The Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Minister, is true, we have a small problem, and he is not, I would say, neither constitutional nor legal, he is a problem of courage in showing a political attitude. I think the vast number of MPs in this room are convinced of the correctness of the proposed amendment. A series of arguments has been ruled out, so we don't repeat ourselves over and over again. I believe the proposed amendment is not contrary to the Constitution. In my humble knowledge, the Constitution is a fundamental legal act, and it defines various topics on a broad scale. The laws, in practice, in accordance with constitutional provisions, specify things that are related to certain topics. A woman is equal to a man. On the basis of the constitutional provision, it is difficult for a constitutional provision to be regarded as unconstitutional, that is, a man is equal to a man, you are right ministers, but the noun's deputy "everyone" in its basic language implies beings. We've got a VP for things. If we went to that language analysis and the constitutionality analysis, I'm afraid that we would even have a problem with the consistency of the noun "everyone" with the Constitution, because as a substitute that implies a variety of beings, it is of broader importance and can in the extreme line mean also beings that are not human beings. This is a language beyond the context of the proposed law. We really ask you once again to take a good look at all these arguments and to have someone think about the need and courage to express a political attitude towards this natural right of the woman to make a decision about giving birth simply to offer the political scene of Serbia and women, as a good, positive message from this Parliament to take seriously and take seriously what are her natural human rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12477	The minister accepted this amendment, these were all replicas. In principle, you are replicating the minister to one of the previous amendments, and this is about the amendment the minister accepted. You're all looking for a replica. Here you go. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Pajovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12478	Except for the minister's presentation, in connection with the constitutionality of the amendments to Article 5, because the minister did not comment when we discussed the amendment. It would be an unconstitutional provision provided for by this bill, because it is an extended circle of faces. If the Constitutional Charter provides for a person to freely decide on birth, then here the circle of the person is extended to legal persons, not only to which number of natural persons and not to consider it, this constitutional provision would not be a constitutional provision. Otherwise, it is quite a constitutional provision that says that a woman freely decides to give birth, because the Constitutional Charter provides that no legal act can limit a person’s freedom to decide, or woman to give birth. So, if this bill stated that a free woman cannot decide to give birth, it would be a constitutional provision, and otherwise a provision where a woman freely decides to give birth is entirely in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12479	The word is by MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic, also a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12480	Dear Presidency, I recognized myself in the part of Mr. Minister's discussion. I think the argument with which the minister went to the MPs, explaining the arguments for or against our amendment to Article 5, has just shown that the argument that you have doesn't really stand. This argument that it does not comply with the Constitution, and on the legal side, we can certainly have great reasons for and against it, shows how much resistance there is to the amendment to Article 5. It's a bill of law. Since you've kind of paraphrased what I said when I said "everyone" and listed local priests, it does, especially if you have in mind the fact that the last few months have been a public campaign on the ban on abortion, so we rightly asked ourselves, as MPs of the Democratic Party, whether the proposed text, or a member of the law, is a single seed that will eventually be accepted, and all in the interest of that campaign that we were talking about, is the beginning of a process that should not be in a civilized, European, modern Serbia. Indeed, the wording "everyone" is something that is unacceptable to us. If we found in the principle debate that this law largely changes the Balkan rules of conduct, I don't see why we would have a formulation that would make it very difficult to make it complicated. If we insist on respecting a woman's natural right to decide on birth, that's not how we get in the way of free family planning. That's two fundamentally different concepts. We also take care of so much of the gender equality mentioned. She is also not injured by this article, but we insist on a natural right for a woman to decide whether to give birth or not. Every modern, normal law also contains provisions that are defined by some other laws, specifically in this case by natural law. That is why the Democratic Party's parliamentary group insists to this extent, arguing that a much more logical, normal solution is to stand for "woman", and that, with all the arguments that you have and that we have, we still claim that there will be no harm to the Constitution; that the formulation that a woman freely decides about birth is not an anti-constitutional provision and simply cannot stand a formulation with which you have come before us. We can also interpret this to a good degree as the existence of a single dose of resistance to the proposed solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12481	The 18th amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12482	I decided not to answer any more about these amendments, and there are a dozen, where I'm looking for a replacement of the word "lock" for "conceal," because I explained it in detail, and I think it's clear to everyone what I wanted with that amendment. However, this amendment to Article 19 has another part, where I find it simply not appropriate for the word "you" to stand in the law, so I suggested it be "as well". It's just not grammatical, it sounds really ugly. Since half the amendments cannot be accepted, my proposal is to carry out a technical editorial. In the future, I won't report for any of my proposals relating to changing the word "lock" with "lock."
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12483	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government and the Committee on Health and Family, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 21st amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miroslav Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12484	The government has rejected this amendment and I really don't see any logical reason for it, except perhaps the desire not to adopt too many amendments submitted by the SRS. What's this about? It is that marriage between Tassian relatives is in principle possible under certain conditions. The court may authorise the conclusion of a marriage between Jewish relatives if it finds that there are reasonable reasons. I just added that such a marriage can be concluded in the previously obtained opinion of the custody body i.e. Center for Social Work. The reason for the government is that the Tabisan relatives are, as a rule, fully commercially capable, and there is no need for special protection of their interests. However, this amendment is not about protecting the interests of those who intend to marry but rather about protecting the social interest. What's this about? These are rare occurrences that Tassian relatives make marriages, as defined by Article 16 of the Law, for the sake of a spouse’s life together. Tabusian relatives make marriage, as a rule, for the sake of solving some of their other needs, not for the sake of living together. These other needs are most often of property-legal nature. It's a classic example of a father-in-law who's a widow getting married to inherit her daughter-in-law's pension to become a family pensioner after the mother-in-law's death. This is absolutely not about getting married. It denies the essence of marriage. Marriage is a community of life. Can the court assess on its own whether there are reasonable reasons or whether it needs the opinion of the Social Labour Centre? Certainly not this first. In the current law, Article 148 reads exactly that - according to the previous opinion of the custody authority. I really don't see any valid, logical reason why this amendment isn't accepted, and the explanation that these are such rare cases and that we don't have to go to all this trouble to really stand. No matter how rare a phenomenon is, if we're going to regulate it by law, let's do it the right way.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12485	The Messenger of the people, Natasa Jovanovic, and the messenger of the people, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12486	A few days ago, when the Labour Act was on the agenda, the minister resented the MPs of the SRS and was wrong not to observe the law in general. Now it's happening to you here, Minister. You, obviously, either don't want to follow what your intention is, or you've overlooked that when you make a marriage between Tasby relatives and minors in those members, another point or another attitude is repeated, in some sense. You've adopted (you think it's some great range of your generosity or I don't know what) an amendment that, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted to Article 37. Proposal for a law, but it adds up to Article 23. The amendment says: "Marriage of minors does not have to be annulled if the conditions laid down in Article 23(2) of this Law are met." When it comes to making marriages between Tassian relatives, with all this argument that they are very often about not only being more beneficial but also certain mental disorders of a person who engages in marriage and are Tassian relatives, and this leads to the desecration of everything that is positive and valuable in our society and family at all, you have not accepted the amendment of Professor Milete Poscurica, where he asks you to specify the same thing that you have accepted in my article 37. So it's just amazing that when it comes to underage marriage, you go one way and you say it's good, and when it comes to Dr. Poscuica's amendment, you say it's unacceptable, because you don't know what the reasons are. In order to establish reasonable reasons, in addition to the court’s decision, which must take into account all the circumstances under which it allows marriage between the Tasby relatives to be concluded, it is likely necessary to obtain the opinion of the custody authority. Is it a normal situation for you when the Tassian relatives come with a request to make a marriage? Tell me if it's a normal phenomenon in society. She's not normal. If we go like this, then in the next amendment and the law supplements you to say that homosexuals can make a marriage, they can do without a court opinion and underage persons. How long will that take us? So, if the Social Work Centre, as a guardianship authority, has the opportunity to see, to provide professional and any other assistance to the family, then let him do so and give his opinion to the court, because when he comes before the court, the court will determine the facts: this is the father-in-law, this is the daughter-in-law, and he will think about what actually happened here. Indeed, those reasons presented by Dr Nedeljkovic are justified. If you want to be serious, it's a sociological problem, it's not just a problem for the court, so they made a civil contract, which someone here calls a marriage conclusion. It's supposed to have a slightly bigger dimension. We are, above all, Christians or most Orthodox religions. Others, who are other faiths, take care of such relationships. Therefore, let the authority that gets the benefits from the citizens of Serbia and from the budget, which should have, by the nature of its existence, qualified people, professional in this regard, give an expert opinion, rather than—we go to court, the court will either bring or refuse to bring and what concerns. Then you'll be in a position to see that a logical amendment to a member of the 35th Professor. Pokukica, where he tells you that if the conditions of this second attitude are met, and if you install that there is an organ of custody, then it is unnecessary to undo such a marriage.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12487	The People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12488	Ladies and gentlemen, when Minister Lalovic spoke here about the bill, which I would like to call a family law, not family law, to throw MPs out of the bench, he said, "I know you are wrong, but it will be passed," he meant this bill. It was a very inappropriate remark by Minister Lalovic. Why am I bringing her up now? Knowing that this law will be passed does not give you the right to suggest some totally unacceptable and abnormal solutions for our society. Article 21 speaks of something that is unnatural, abnormal. It is only acceptable and seen in these Latin American series that fills the heads of all TV audiences in Serbia. In Serbia, whether you accept it or not, the conclusion of a marriage between Tasbus relatives is something that is abnormal, unnatural. I have to explain, for the sake of the public, not to get the impression again, as I said this morning, which is what you've been trying to say all along, how we Serbian did against this law, and he brings so much good to Serbia. Article 21 says that marriage cannot be concluded (and I would say – to conclude) by the Tassian relatives in the first degree of the right line, which is the father-in-law and sister-in-law, father-in-law, stepdaughter and pastor. Then you're saying that the court can, for justifiable reasons, allow a marriage like this to be concluded. First, I see no valid reason for such a marriage and no one in the SRS sees a valid reason to conclude such a marriage. So it's something abnormal, unnatural, even doctors know the consequences of such marriages having at the birth of children, etc. We didn't propose to delete the whole article by amendment, because it's obvious that you intend to modernise Serbia, because it's been said all along that this is a very modern law. The minister says, "Everything that has been modern in the last 25 years has been incorporated into this law." Minister, you didn't have to modernize us this much, to predict marriages between father-in-laws and father-in-laws, stepdaughters and stepdaughters. So much fashion is really too much. The amendment asked counterpart Nedeljkovic to make such a decision, for these allegedly justified reasons, in the opinion of the custody authorities previously obtained. You're saying why you don't accept the amendment: "Amendment cannot be accepted for the reasons that the Tabisan relatives, as a rule, are fully businessable persons, so there's no need for special protection of their interest by the custody authorities." Even if they're commercially capable, these faces are, at the very least, immoral. If the father-in-law and the sister-in-law are seeking to conclude their marriage, whatever their intention is... Someone here mentioned a pension as one of the goals of concluding such a marriage; and it is unfair, immoral, to make such a desecration of the sanctity of the family, the sanctity of marriage, because someone, God, will exercise the right to retire. Simply, it is unacceptable, and the more the debate on this amendment takes place, the closer I am to thinking that this member should have been completely deleted, because, definitely, as much as I think about it, I can't find any valid reason to conclude marriage in the Tabunian family. What could possibly be an excuse? To happen that, let's say, what's unnatural and abnormal again, the mother-in-law rapes her daughter-in-law so that her daughter-in-law can be pregnant. And there's again a question of whether to regulate, to mutilate and confess to that child. But anyway, you're trying to put unnatural, abnormal situations into the law. We Serbian radicals don't accept that. Whatever you think of us as a traditional stranger, you say conservatively, we accept that, but we don't accept marriages in the Tabunian family.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12489	Thank you. National MP Momir Markovic, then MP Branislav Stevanović, according to the same amendment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12490	I really don't know, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, what this minister needs, and also many ministers who have passed bill proposals before this House, that only what is decadent in this Europe is to place us before the final act to adopt or not adopt the law. I agree with Mrs. Verica Radet that this member of the law should be completely deleted. Unfortunately, such an amendment has not been submitted, but that is why I suggest that the minister return this law and emulate it, and only then bring it before the MPs. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Orthodox tradition, if we consider the majority of Serbian citizens to be Orthodox religion, in addition to blood kinship, that kinship called the Tabunian kinship is also respected until I know which knee. Miss Natasa Jovanovic said for a moment -- will we have this in some subsequent bill, because it is Europe, too, to ask MPs to adopt a law whereby homosexuals will be able to make marriages, because across Western Europe such proposals are going? If that's the approach to Europe, Serbia doesn't need that kind of approach to Europe. I am sorry that the minister did not explain a little bit better, and I hope that he will now come out and tell us what it is to force these MPs to vote for one law with such a decadent attitude, where the daughter-in-law, namely the mother-in-law and the brother-in-law, will allow for marriage.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12491	First Minister Lalovic, then MP Branislav Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12492	Let me just answer this, since the subject is now this article 21. So first, let me say that we haven't changed that term. It is a member of the 1980s, i.e. in the Family Law. That means that your story and your comments about us doing something about it don't stand. So this is about, like it was in the '80s, that it's a marital disturbance, it's forbidden. That's forbidden, because you put an accent here to allow something. That's forbidden. That's what I'm saying for the citizens of Serbia, so they won't be mistaken. And then it is said that under certain circumstances, the court can decide something else, and the court will certainly consult the social work centre and all others to consult in order to make a quality decision. But, please, before you comment on the bill this way, this isn't about innovation, look at the current, applicable law, what it says there, it's the same thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12493	The replica of the author of the amendment. Here you are, Miroslav Nedeljkovic, then MP Branislav Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12494	Here, the minister said that this member was prescribed from an old, or currently in force law, and I have just submitted an amendment to be the same as in the current law, where it stands - according to the previous opinion of the custody authority. If I'm not mistaken, it's a member of the 148th law in force. (Minister, from Place: Article 48) What, Article 48? Maybe. So I don't see any rational reason to delete that provision that must first obtain the opinion of the custody authority. The court works by some logic and its rules. I don't believe that the court is going into the family to see if that's really the intention of establishing a marriage union or if it's already based, and it just needs to be legalized. The Social Labour Centres, through their expert teams, are much more adequate to determine. So, I was just asking for it to stay like in the old law, with the fact that there remains a fundamental question of whether the law should be allowed in the first degree, whether it should be allowed in principle to make marriages between the Tasby relatives of the first degree.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12495	Mr. Nedeljkovic, the clarification of Minister Lalovic. Here you go. Replica, why? It's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12496	What I wanted to point out was the point, because the dictation of those who came out here was that we now invented the law of marital interference when it came to this. That's 25 years in Serbia. I just wanted to point out that when comments are made, the current law, the new law should be looked at, and in that sense the comment should be adequate for the real situation. As far as this second one is concerned, what my colleague is talking about – previously obtained opinion, or already as he suggested, it may have been omitted from the view that, speaking of the law in principle, I pointed to one newspaper in this regard, which is that when we adopt this law, the specialization of judges follows precisely for these types of disputes. In such a situation, we think that what was formerly a previous opinion, etc. It completely loses its meaning, because judges who will specialize in such disputes will be able to answer this kind of problem perfectly. There's so much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12497	Thank you. Replica, though, is that right? National MP Natasa Jovanovic, replica. I'm sorry, according to the Rules of Procedure, whenever a government official asks for a word, he gets it right away. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12498	You're being insecure, Mr. President. I was looking for...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12499	Please, I warn you that we are working on the Rules of Procedure and I have quoted you -- whenever a government official asks for a word, he gets it right away. And it's my duty to be serious about the Rules of Procedure, and now here's your line.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12500	Mr. Minister, very briefly, this is your second time (and two different laws are at stake, the Labour Act and now the Family Act) as you constantly refer to ′80. A year. That's the year you were hit hard, because your ideologist Josip Broz that year, thank God, lucky for all of us, passed away, and you have this problem and you are constantly ′80. A year in your head. Just to tell me -- the law was passed in May of the month, and I will know the complete tragedy of your case to understand in the right way. If you object, in a particular case to me, because I object to Tasbus relatives and to the conclusion of marriage under the positive legal regulations of 1980, I must tell you that I and that 1980, even though I attended primary school at the time, was ideologically opposed to you. After 1990, there came a way and an opportunity for the majority of Serbia to say so and to think so, and that dogme and what you've been trapped in all your life is something that you have to face. The true feeling of every member of the Serb people, and especially the believer of the Serbian Orthodox Church, and I told you -- and other Christian religions, does not allow this kind of treatment of relations when it comes to Tabusian relatives. That's why I'm warning you in the future, whenever you think of it in 1980, and you're talking to me, to remember that I was still someone who couldn't influence, especially this infamous regime, and the way they acted, those delegates who walked, walked into a hall like this; that's probably why it was built, because it served them parades, to vote such decadent laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12501	The word is made by MP Branislav Stevanovic. Here's to this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12502	Ladies and gentlemen, this is not enough of an argument, as Mr. Secretary says, that this is an earlier law. Mr. Minister, you're here to make better laws. But you've been dragging us all the time to Europe. This law brings us back to Asia, Mr. Minister. For something we've been ashamed of before, which we've always criticised, the conclusion of such marriages, you're simply giving the green light, so the son-in-law can make marriage. You had no idea when you read and made that article, that you were someone's son-in-law, Mr. Minister. That way, by supporting the conclusion of these marriages, Mr. Minister, we defend a sick nation. We're supposed to be born. I don't know what kind of children in such marriages. As for the succession proceedings, pensions, there are other mechanisms to inherit pensions and other assets. I don't support that you have any alibis, that you take it out that the law was made earlier, and that you just copied it now. So it's one extra shame of yours that you haven't done anything better, if it's been bad in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12503	Thank you, too. Who's answering for a word? The word has a folk MP, Osto Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12504	People's MPs, Mr. Minister, I can't agree with this. We'd better leave this to the courts and the social workers, let them solve these problems. As a Christian and as a man, I can't agree to marry my mother-in-law tomorrow, I can't agree with that. I would be ashamed of both God and the people to do it, to live with her daughter, to live with her. As a Christian and as a man, I will never do that. With this law, with this point, we'll do it on the people's side—Sigelić Stevan up the hill, there's no telling who he lives with. That's how it's gonna be. Minister, this is a disgrace to me. I suggest you withdraw this point of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12505	Thank the People's MP, Ostoj Stojanovic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruždic-Trifunović. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meso Omerovic together submitted an amendment proposing the amendment of Title II in the second part of the Bill, following Article 24. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Ljiljana Nestorovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12506	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Fellow Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, we propose that after Article 24, as the chairman has already said, the name of the head is changed – that name is now referred to as "the facts of marriage", and we suggest that it is called "the rights and duties of spouses" – because from all members who follow, and who belong to that head, clearly see that it is essentially about rights and duties. For example, Article 25: "The spouses are obliged to lead a life together... "Article 28: "The spouses are obliged to support each other... "Article 29: "The property of the spouse may be... "--it's all duties and rights. That is why we think that the title of the head is much more acceptable or more adequate than that which is now in your proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12507	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 31 and Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12508	Thank you. I suggested that the title in the act on the futility of marriage be deleted, which reads: "Difference of sex, declaration of will and jurisdiction". Below, Article 31, whose text is: "Marriage is nothing if it was made by two persons of the same sex, if the statements of the will of the spouses were not confirmed or if the marriage was not concluded in front of the mother. "I thought it was too high to write it at all and write it in that place, because it's the same contained in article 15, which says, "marriage makes two people different sexes by giving statements of will to a parent." So I don't think our people and citizens of this country are retarded that they need to be repeated twice in order to remember better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12509	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic submitted to the 34th amendment. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic submitted to the 35th amendment. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The People's MP, Milet Poscurica, submitted to the 35th Amendment. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12510	Ladies and gentlemen, colleague Mileta Poscurica has tabled an amendment to Article 35. It is the legal reasons for the futility of marriage, both in Article 35 and above Article 35, which is the reason for the futility of kinship. It is said that "marriage is nothing if it was drawn together by blood, adaptical, or Tasby relatives among whom marriage is not allowed. The marriage between the Tasby relatives referred to in Article 1 shall not be annulled if there are justified reasons." The proposal is that the second position be changed and that it reads: "The marriage between the Tabian relatives of Article 1 of this article will not be annulled if the conditions laid down in Article 21(2) of this Law are met." In the light of this amendment, only one sentence said: "Declaration is necessary to reduce the possibility of abuse of this right". Why did we say that? Because this is also about Article 21, which we talked about here pretty much. The conclusion of marriage between Tassian relatives cannot be treated as law. It is an abuse of rights, because there is no (this is what I have already said) any legal basis, except that you will install it in this law, to conclude these abnormal marriages. In the government's explanation of why this amendment is not accepted, the amendment cannot be accepted because the proposed amendment does not contribute to a more precise definition of the legal standard "justified reasons", since the appeal refers to a provision that does not contain a closer definition of that concept. This argument is simply not true. Otherwise, when it comes to the futility of marriage, this whole part of the law that's talking about it is problematic. What my colleague Leila said was very clever. It also refers to this article, and don't tell us now that it's something prescribed by that law that is now in force, because if you're proposing a new law and we're adopting a new law, then let us adopt something completely new. If the law sets out the conditions under which marriage is concluded, it is unlikely that a marriage in Article 35 will be concluded as nothing. Then the question is the responsibility of the one who concludes marriage, now I mean the official person, not the person who concludes marriage with one another, how can marriage be concluded, if he asked for some documentation, which later becomes nothing for these reasons. That's the part that should have been more seriously regulated by this law. Here you have predicted a series of reasons for the futility of marriage, but it again opens up the possibility of abuse in the conclusion of marriage. If two persons who want to conclude a marriage bring an official the proper documentation required under the law, then there is no possibility of concluding a marriage that is based on it becoming nothing. Marriage can be nothing if, in the meantime, a fact could be covered up at the time of marriage, but what is provided for in Article 35 could not be covered up in the conclusion of marriage. So we suggest that this amendment be accepted, because it is something that is precise, although the government says it does not specify this, by the proposal envisaged, situation. We claim to be precise and suggest that this amendment be accepted, although I must point out again, there is in general the possibility of marriage between the Tabunian relatives something that is unacceptable for the SRS. It can never be a right, even if you see it here and adopt it as a right, but it will only be a source of abuse of rights, because such marriages are concluded only to abuse the right. So, I ask fellow Members of the People's Parliaments, or I suggest that they think about adopting this amendment, and before that, of course, an amendment to Article 21 of this law is adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12511	National MP Mileta Poscurica, author of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12512	I don't think there are any more words to explain the reasons why we shouldn't go to the Tasby marriages. If it had just gone a little left or right in its neighborhood and talked to religious people, it would have been clear. So, we created a legal haven, where lawyers will benefit the most; and the whole law is like that, especially when there is divorce, division of property, domestic violence -- full hands of work for lawyers. With a law like this, lawyers have the most to do. If you have already decided, it was probably in your head that you would vote for the majority to pass the law with such a member and such recommendations, then it was not logical to put it on – no marriage agreement between Tabunian relatives has to be annulled. It's highly illogical, because if the court has made a decision knowing all the facts, then it can't be put "no sea", it won't cancel out. So you don't trust the court either. If it is already excluded that in the process of creating a marriage community between Tabunian relatives a social work centre is involved, that recommendations, knowledge from the field, personal situation and so on, rather than the court itself comes up with information about it and has decided that marriage can be concluded, that there is no interference, which always surprises us, then it is illogical to put "no sea", but it should be "no". Respect the court's decision and the end of the story. If you do not appeal to consciousness and withdraw one of these unvulnerable provisions, which was once impossible, but for other circumstances, some other habits, which are far from Christian, which do not belong to us, to the Orthodox Serbian people, I think would be very logically thorough to think about this. We won't be angry if you pull this off and it'll be clearer for the citizens that you've been properly oriented in this regard.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12513	If there's no one else by amendment, I'm closing the debate on this amendment and I'm closing this afternoon's debate. We'll be back at 3:00. [[After break – 15.50]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon work. Please determine if we have a quorum. I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I understand we have a quorum to work with. The 36th amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37, the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Having adopted the amendment by the Government and the Committee on Health and Family, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. At the same time, I'm asking one of the vice presidents of the National Assembly to enter the O.R. The 38th amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 40th Amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12515	I have submitted an amendment to Article 40. Article 40. The draft law on which I have submitted an amendment, i.e. paragraph 2, reads: "The divorce agreement must also contain a written agreement on the exercise of parental law and a written agreement on the decoupling of the common property. "I felt that these two agreements should be added to the -- written support agreement. To those who deal with this matter, it is clear what it means to solve the problem of maintenance in time in order to avoid any possible litigation that arises from the problems of maintenance. The issue of maintenance is a very important part of the relationship between spouses, and it is very good to resolve it even in the framework of a contractual divorce. That's why I felt it was necessary for this, as a third agreement, to enter into this member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12516	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12517	I also have an amendment to Article 41, which reads: "Every spouse has the right to divorce if marital relations are seriously and permanently disturbed or if an objectively cannot be achieved by the community of a spouse’s life. "I felt that in order to protect women and children, it was necessary to add the attitude that was modified and otherwise resolved in the old law, which would say: "A husband has no right to divorce during the pregnancy of a woman, or until their child is a year old, except under the divorce agreement. "The remarks from the ministry that we received in response to which this amendment was rejected, and this is about the possibility that a woman would not want to divorce, is that the woman would be exposed to greater violence. Here is the key to predicting that without a woman's consent there is no divorce. A woman who suffers violence or has just begun violence against her, if she wishes, can give consent to a divorce. So what I'm saying here is that a woman doesn't have to suffer violence, as the Ministry has answered us, because if she gives consent to divorce, she can divorce. I think this solution is much better than in the past law, which ruled out any possibility of divorce, that is, divorce except for the agreement, but divorce if a woman doesn't give consent. We'd give this woman a chance to protect herself, if she's in need of protection. If only the husband wants to divorce, and there is no violence, she could not allow, of course, for various reasons, and primarily materially, because this law is not regulated in the way it should be arranged.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12518	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic. Since the amendment was adopted by the Government and the Committee on Health and Family, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 47th amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic. Since the amendment was adopted by the Government and the Committee on Health and Family, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 59th amendment was submitted by MP Anita Beretic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Anita Beretic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12519	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, representatives of the Ministry, I think there's only a little extra attention here to be invested. I think we're practically talking about the same thing and there's no confusion about the content. In the proposal for this amendment, which we submitted in Article 59(1) after the word "child" is added to the word "no matter the age". The argument provided by the Government as to why it rejected this amendment is that the amendment cannot be accepted for the reason that the provision of Article 59(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union has been accepted. Proposal for a law in accordance with Article 7. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, under which the child is entitled to the truth about the origin of the birth itself. We just wanted to point out that, regardless of age, which means from the moment of birth, the child has the right to know about its origin, and we fully accept, means we do not limit or question the content of the third attitude, where you say, in the bill, that a child who has turned 15 years of life and who is capable of judgment can make an insight into the parent's book of born and other documentation relating to its origin. So that's not at all controversial, but we don't think it's the only possible (and, upside down) way for a child to find out about their origins by simple insight into a birth certificate born 15 years old. We don't question that, but we believe that, regardless of age, there are many life situations where a child under 15 years of age in a more appropriate, humane, humane, warmer way should be informed of its origin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12520	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12521	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understood the argument offered by counterpart Anita Beretic, but I cannot accept it because the law cannot prescribe a warmer and more humane way. We can only want the child adopted to be told in a warmer and more humane way, but we can't prescribe what kind of way it would be warmer and more humane. As far as I'm concerned, the legislator is right here as he has determined for 15 years as the lower limit of age when a child might be told something like that, and you will admit that it is things that can be extremely traumatic for a child. If the amendment were to be accepted – once again I say that I fully understand it and I fully understand what your wish was – I think that we might be able to get a number of children who have been adopted into trouble, and that they can get permanent frustration. Otherwise, they are children with latent dangers that when they learn the real truth about their origins, they suffer from trauma all their lives. It's a delicate situation, and that's why I'm saying this amendment isn't accepted, but it's just as a member of the 59th Family Law predicted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12522	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12523	Ladies and gentlemen, the argument to support the amendment of Parliament of People, Anita Beretic, again. So, Article 59, which treats origin, is the first point of view: "The child has the right to know who his parents are." The amendment also includes part of the sentence "no matter how old it is". Why am I giving an argument as a support? Because by adopting this amendment, we have the opportunity to ease protests concerning members 249, 250 and 251. A proposal for this law, which refers to the establishment of motherhood, or paternity, until the age of 10 of a child's life. Without doubting that such members, as proposed, will pass, by adopting this amendment we would leave a wide channel of communication for those children whom we parents, who we have heard of today, believe that children are simply stolen from them, that they can seek the truth about their origin at any time of their life. Therefore, the amendment of the MP Anita Beretic allows this also to be addressed as a message to people who have a personal tragedy in life because of a crime, established, confirmed, unconfirmed, it remains on the competent authorities to declare the final truth, that at least their children have rights, regardless of age, to establish and to know who their parents are. This is not in any case contrary to the Convention which is stated in the reasoning. The parliamentary majority should sooner agree and say, if members of 249, 250 and 251 will pass in the proposed text, if the mother and father only until the child's tenth year of birth, or the mother can determine her motherhood, then let this law allow the child to do so as long as he lives, whether his parents live or not at the moment of determining the truth about his own origin. This is an important question because I think it touches the basic emotions that we share as people, both as someone's children and as the parents of some children. A little empathy with people who have such a tragic experience in their lives would be shown through the vote for the amendment of MP Anita Beretic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12524	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 61 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. Since the amendment was adopted by the Government and the Committee on Health and Family, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 65th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. Since the amendment was adopted by the Government and the Committee on Health and Family, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 65th amendment. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miroslav Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12525	It's a little strange that the government has rejected this amendment. I'll try to make myself clear, so everyone understands what this is all about. I hope you'll accept it later in the voting day. As you know, the proposal for this law, applying the Convention on the Rights of Children and Other Conventions, provides that certain procedures for the recognition of the rights of the child are to be heard and the opinion of the child who turned 10 years of life. Let me remind you, at the age of 15, a child only makes some decisions. At the age of 10, the court has the right and obligation to hear the child’s opinion on issues concerning children. To be specific, in the course of divorce, a court should judge which parent will belong to a child, or parent, who will exercise parental law. It is good that the court is scheduled to hear the child’s opinion and carry out through Article 65 that the child’s opinion must be expressed freely, without pressure. However, as this article is written, it is not provided. The child's hearing is practically disabled. That opinion will not be freely expressed. That's why we intervened with the amendment. If the promoter has already wanted the child’s opinion to be respected, that is, to learn the child’s opinion, let us make it possible through the operation of this member. So, the court will listen to the child's opinion in an informal conversation, in an appropriate atmosphere, and in the presence of a person whom the child only chooses. We propose to delete this: "and in the presence of the person who chooses the child", for two reasons. First, a child can choose one of his parents. If relationships in marriage are so disrupted, it is normal for one parent to already have a dominant effect on the child. So if a child takes a parent with a dominant influence, it will be about the opinion that the parent expects to hear. A child will surely choose a face that is somehow imposed on him by a parent who has a dominant influence on a child. Therefore, either adopt this amendment or this principle will free the child to express his opinion as just a simple declaration, a dead letter on paper.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12526	The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12527	I'm afraid Mr. Nedeljkovic's final sentence may be the meaning of this law. Your unsuspecting need to overwrite everything and everything came down to something similar to what we saw when you spoke about student parliaments, so the right to think, the right to decide, the right to have a foreign minister, a minister of culture, the Prime Minister. Here and now - the right of the child to think. Opinion is a process. Who ever banned a child from his opinion in any legal act? If it's an opinion, it's an attitude, it's an articulation, so it's the child's attitude again. If that's what he's operating on, then it's an act, an act. It is simply incomprehensible why it is put into such a global concept, that it can only be indirectly concluded that it is an opinion that a child can express at the moment when it decides on its fate, let's say, in the adoption or in the divorce of marriage, to whom it will belong, etc. It should have been stated more precisely, because this is how a bomb was placed -- right to think, leaves a question about where that child lived so far, what kind of state the child's right to the opinion was not respected. The first attitude shows how capable it is of achieving, minors, the process of thinking. That's amazing. One rather unmistakable formulation of five views of this member makes it glamorous, vague, unspeakable. In general, it is incomprehensible to us why so much importance, when it was possible for certain related members, in which the child’s presence is important, to place: if the child is capable or mature enough, biological, mental, psychological, to give his opinion on certain things that concern him. This concerns similar decisions that the child makes, in terms of opinion, on similarity to intervention, on treatment. It's just that one galamitius of a solution, which I don't know why it's so copied or brought back to the front, because it's probably someone who thought the law would be bad if this wasn't put in. He'd be just as bad without what you put on, but it's up to us to intervene on this, when he's already who he is. Accept the suggestion of the amendment promoter and change it so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12528	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12529	My fellow MPs, I believe that, when voted on this law, you will vote for the amendment of your colleague, Milovan Radovanovic, because this amendment gives weight to Article 65. The draft law, in the sense that by accepting this amendment, it really makes sense what is provided for in Article 65. It's not just, as the government has suggested, a declaration text, which, in principle, does not oblige anyone. If our amendment were accepted, then the real meaning of what was wanted by Article 65 would be achieved. Let me remind you, the 65th member is talking about the child's opinion during the divorce. In view of the first proposed law, it states that a child capable of forming an opinion has the right to express that opinion freely. We Serbian radicals are absolutely in agreement with this attitude, but that is why we cannot accept what is written in the position of the 6th of this same member, which denies what is provided for in Article 65. In point 6, you say, "The court and the authority of the administration determine the child's opinion in an informal conversation held in an appropriate place, in collaboration with a school psychologist, or guardianship authority, family counselling or other institution specialised in family relations, and in the presence of a person whom the child only chooses." In the opinion of our parliamentary group, the word "in the presence of a person who only chooses a child" cannot stand, or instead could be said "without the presence of a parent". What does this mean, essentially? If we leave the child to declare which parent he will belong to during the divorce, but he must say that in the presence of the person he has chosen, it automatically means that the child is defined for the parent who is closer to the person who has chosen the child. If the child is identified as an uncle, it is certain that he will claim to belong to his mother, and if he is identified as an uncle, then he will surely belong to his father. If we want to rule out bias, that a child with no fear can say who he wants to stay with after the divorce of his parents, then he has to say that in front of all these professionals who are listed here, but without the presence of any parent and without the presence of that person who is in any way close to one of his parents. That's the only way we're letting the kid say who he really wants to live with. If you don't accept this amendment, then I guess it's clear to you all that there's no child's freedom, because surely a 10 or 11-year-old won't say - I prefer to live with my mom, if he has an uncle who's my dad's brother. It just can't be expected of such a small creature. The government in its explanation says it does not accept this amendment, given that the amendment of Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meh Omerovic's MPs to the same member of the bill was accepted. I don't know if you've read this explanation and amendment by my colleagues Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meha Omerovic. He has nothing to do with what we suggested. What do these two colleagues say? To delete the words "in an informal conversation held in an appropriate place" in attitude 6. It has nothing to do with what we suggested. All right, let it be deleted that the opinion is given in an informal conversation held in a suitable place, but it really has nothing to do with what we have said – that this opinion gives the child without the presence of a parent, or the person close to a parent. It's obvious that whoever wrote the government's explanation thinks that we MPs here are playing around, not reading bill proposals, government opinion. I was really frustrated when I saw the government's explanation for why the amendment of Milovan Radovanovic was not accepted – because Meho Omerovic and Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted an amendment to the same member, but to a completely different part of the story, which has nothing to do with this amendment. I'm really asking you, I assume that you, ma'am, have been professionally working on this part (received to the lady from the professional service), to take care of and to appreciate that we are doing serious work here and we are seriously thinking.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12530	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 70th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kekic and Zivodarka Dacin. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from the People's Messenger of Life-dark Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12531	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, my colleague Bojan Kekic and I have submitted an amendment that we consider to be really fundamentally explaining some of the things in this law. It's actually about a section - raising a child and Article 70. It is the only member who refers to raising a child and says: "Parents have the right and duty to develop a relationship with a child based on love, trust and mutual respect, and to direct the child to the adoption of values that have universal character". Again, some general feature that can mean anything and nothing. We believe that we have offered a much better solution, so our offer is that instead of saying "those values that have universal character" are the words "and respecting the value of the emotional, ethical and national identity of their family and society". Practically here, essential values are determined which parents should handle in raising children, and which also have general importance. One more thing, I really expected Minister Lalovic to be there and likely to adopt this amendment, just because it is, of course, legally possible and what is practically unanimously adopted on the Committee on Health and Family Committee. Given the fact that it cannot be adopted at the session itself, I would only ask you to adopt this amendment in the day of the vote and thus improve the member of the law, the only one relating to child rearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12532	Since that amendment has passed on the Committee, that's already half the job. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 75 of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. (The People's MP withdraws the amendment. I thank you. The 76th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. Since the amendment was adopted by the Government and the Committee on Health and Family, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 77th amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The government proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Committee on Health and Family and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. The word is sought by Parliamentarian Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12533	Thank you. It's a pleasure when Mr. Angelkovic heads the assembly, then I feel like a woman. Otherwise, I'm in doubt all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12534	I thank Parliamentarian Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12535	Article 77 provides for an independent exercise of parental law. He's got five attitudes. Each attitude foresees a situation in which a parent can exercise parental law on his own. I thought we had to add one more attitude and I put it as attitude two and the rest of the attitudes moved one place. That view would read: “One parent myself exercises parental law on the basis of a custody authority’s decision when another parent is temporarily unable to exercise parental law because of sickness, permanent absence, or for some other reason. "I felt that it was necessary for a situation in which a temporary parent cannot exercise parental rights to enter this member, and since the matter is a temporary, or temporary solution, one can be designated by the custody body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12536	Anybody else answer for a word? There's a word for Minister Lalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12537	First, I would like to inform you that the government accepts the amendment of the People's MPs Bojan Kekic and Zivodarka Dacin to Article 70. A proposal for family law. I would also like to tell you that we have consulted on the amendment to Article 5 which has been so problematic here. Based on the consultations we held, the government of the Republic of Serbia accepts the amendment of Anita Beretic to Article 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12538	Please, if the Committee could sit in session before the end of this session, accept this amendment, in order to become an integral part of the bill's proposal, and this is an amendment to Parliament 5, Anita Beretic, and... Don't worry about anything, just in order. If not, then the Assembly will have to make a statement about it in the voting day. Of course, since amendments by the MPs Bojan Kekic and Zivodarka Dacin have been accepted by the Government and the Committee on Health and Family, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, I realize that it has become an integral part of the bill. We're moving on to the next member. The 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Anita Beretic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Anita Beretic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12539	Dear Vice-President, Minister, I want to thank you first for this brave and politically wise gesture and to say that the importance of such a decision will be measured in a very soon and long period ahead and that we have sent this, as a parliament, an extraordinary message to women in Serbia. I believe we share the belief that, based on all the experiences and various experiences in which they live, they deserve it entirely. Thank you again. As for the amendment to Article 83, this article reads: "Parents can be returned to parental rights when they stop the reasons for which they were completely or partially deprived of parental rights". We suggest that the words "completely or" be deleted. Why are we doing this? Article 81 of the proposed law and Article 82 very precise, and that is very good, defines the conditions under which parents can be completely, or partially deprived of parental law. Article 81(2) states: "Parents abuse parental rights: 1. if they physically, sexually or emotionally abuse a child; 2. if they use a child to force him to overwork or to work that threatens the moral, health or education of a child, that is to say, to work that is prohibited by law; 3. if it encourages a child to commit crimes; 4. if he is accustomed to giving away ugly tendencies; 5. if otherwise abuses the rights of parenting rights". We believe that if there are situations in life, and unfortunately there are situations, and we want to believe that they are not in a dramaticly large number, or that, by applying this new law, the way of thinking about family and miles will be different, more modern, it is not a burning thought that in the case of experiences that a child is going through, and in doing so, the violence of a type of physical, sexual or emotional abuse, which also falls within the scope of criminal acts, even if the reasons are stopped, because it is said, can be restored when the reasons for deprived, either partially or completely. I believe that such a harsh violation of the psychophysical health of a child, often with fatal outcomes, is sufficient reason to consider that in such drastic cases parental law is practically not returned.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12540	I thank Parliamentarian Anita Beretic. The word was sought by MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12541	I don't think this amendment should be accepted. I'll give you an explanation. Mrs. Beretic read the reasons why parental law can be taken away, but she did not read it all the way to the end. She has read five points, but she has failed to read another five for which parental rights can be taken away, which is: 1. If the parent has left the child; 2. if she does not care about the child; 3. if she avoids supporting the child, etc. So if, for these reasons, parents are deprived of parental law and if these reasons stop, and you agree that they can stop, then why should the judicial decision not return to parental law? Maybe this could be adopted if article 81 were broken down into several members, so that what's under the title – the parent abuses the rights of the parenting rights content, these first five points, that it's a special member; I would agree, if the parental right was taken away for these reasons, that it really doesn't make sense to ever come back, that only a mentally ill person can do it. But since we have these other points, which a parent can correct during life, then it is not necessary to close the legal possibility of returning his parental rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12542	I thank Mr. Nedeljkovic. Replica was reported by MP Anita Beretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12543	Just for a little while. So I did not miss out on purpose or on purpose; it is true, I do not dispute that there are other points, which define the abuse of parental rights. Perhaps it was simply the schedule or technical arrangement of the member himself that led to the reading of all points, that they were equal in importance. So we insist on those situations where abuse of parental rights is drastic. Which is not through the member himself now, so it's said that in the case of point 1, 2 or 3, you can deprive yourself of a permanent parental right, what to do. But we couldn't, in making the amendments, be more specific and say that's all that matters. We do not consider that the causes of a partial lack of parental rights are daily situations, but we fully accept that when these causes are removed the parental right is returned without any problem, as can be returned to parental law and from the third point of view from 1 to 5, it is not disputed. But it's a very controversial point one from the second point of view.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12544	I thank Parliamentarian Anita Beretic. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 94 of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment is withdrawn. The People's MP, Pai Momchilov, submitted to the 95th Amendment. Since the amendment was adopted by the Government and the Committee on Health and Family, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic to Article 96. The government proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Committee on Health and Family and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. The word is sought by the People's Messenger of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12545	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 96. The bill says when parents don't need consent to adopt a child. The promoter predicted that if the parent is completely deprived of parental rights, if the parent is deprived of the right to decide on matters that affect the life of the child; if the parent is completely deprived of his business skills. We in the SRS suggest adding another point and that it be in case the parent obviously left the child, and his place of residence is unknown for more than six months. Indeed, there is no valid reason to convince me that this is not a completely meaningful and legally valid amendment. After all, in the explanation of his colleague Krasic, he wrote – since a parent who leaves the child and doesn't know his place of residence does not perform parental duties, so he does not need his consent to adopt. It's something that's perfectly normal and, I mean, acceptable. I'm very surprised the government didn't accept this amendment. I still expect the minister to accept it, or at least you, colleagues, in voting day, because what we wrote is in favour of the claim that we are really serious about solving these problems. We don't see why any kid would lose his adoptive parents because he has an irresponsible parent who's gone missing, you don't know his address for more than six months. Unfortunately, you know that there are such situations in life, and I hope that you accept the fact that it is certainly better for a child to be with a new family who is willing to adopt it than to be in any institution, whatever they are. Unfortunately, ours are not adequate for the normal survival of those children who do not have parents, who are in those institutions, but no matter what institutions it is, it is certainly more acceptable and better for the child to be in the circle of the family. That is why it is incomprehensible to me that again through all discussions of these MPs who will vote for this proposal are constantly implementing that only Serbian radicals are against this law. As you interpret, if we're against the law, then we're against the rights of the child and we don't take care of children. That's just not true. On the contrary, this amendment shows that we are experiencing this far more seriously than you are and that we are seeing this problem more and more versatilely. So we suggested that a child be allowed to adopt without parental consent if the parent is not known for more than six months, because of course it implies that it is immediately an irresponsible parent, who is rudely violating his parental rights and there is no reason to wait for such a parent to find or appear. In an explanation why the SRS amendment is not accepted, the Government says, "The amendment cannot be accepted for reasons why the proposed solution does not comply with Article 9. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Namely, if there is no consent of parents to adopt, there must be a judicial decision on the lack of parental rights for abandoning a child, or harsh neglect of parental duties. "Our amendment, ministers, and colleagues, is not contrary to this Article 9. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. We just want to speed up this process. If we wait for the first six months to pass to find out that the irresponsible parent is gone, then the procedure is to declare him missing, irresponsible and so forth, we lose at least, the way the judiciary works, even if it works better, we'd lose at least another year. All of this certainly has a negative impact on the psychological development of the child, and we think it's better if the child is adopted when he's underage. Anyway, we think this amendment should really be accepted. The concept does not spoil the law, but it certainly helps children who, unfortunately, thanks to irresponsible parents, remain without parental ageing and need to create conditions for them to be cared for by those families who are willing to adopt.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12546	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12547	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, who has ever set foot in Zvecanska or similar homes, has seen many children left by parents abandoned. On the other hand, there are many married couples who seek a way to adopt children, for God did not give them the opportunity to have their own. Therefore, I know children whose mother gave birth to eight of them, and all eight ended up in Zvechanska. On the other hand, I know people who wanted to adopt two of those children, and because they knew the place of the mother's residence, which is so "responsible" that everyone in Zvechny found herself, adoption was not possible. The amendment of MP Zoran Krasic would clear that cloudy water in this segment of social life. Unless a six-month-old takes care of the child he created, he finds it inappropriate to dedicate himself to that child, unless he knows where one of his parents is for six months, and their home is always established when they bring a new child to Zvecanska, the children suffer; they suffer, on the other hand, those who adopt those children. Only those who are most guilty of it do not suffer. That is why I believe that this amendment should be adopted, just as in the text of MP Zoran Krasic, it is explained. It seems to me that one great injustice to children and to those who would adopt them would have been avoided.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12548	Is anyone else answering for the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 99 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12549	On behalf of the SRS MPs' club, I have submitted an amendment to Article 99 where I request that Article 2 be deleted. Article 99 reads: "The difference in age between adoptors and adoptors cannot be less than 18 or more than 45 years. Exceptionally, the minister responsible for family protection can allow the adoption of a person who is older than the adoptors less than 18 years old or a person who is older than the adoptors for more than 45 years, if there are particularly justified reasons." There's no reason to be particularly justified. Item 1 in this article is quite enough to regulate matter and I don't think a minister should be allowed either (and yet it is that if there were, then there would be a ministry, not a minister), there should be no one to decide beyond this; if there is any validity of this law, then it is valid in this article. I feel that Article 2 of this law really needs to be deleted, because the difference of more than 45 years between adoptives and adoptors really doesn't lead to anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12550	The People's Messenger Miroslav Nedeljković has the word and then the Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12551	This article was given the discretionary right of the minister to deviate from some of the declared, prescribed principles. It is okay for the minister to have such powers in certain situations. However, it may not be convenient to leave that possibility here because, whoever the minister may be, he will be in an awkward situation to refuse (with or without quotes) the justified demands of potential adoptors. We must bear in mind the basic principle of adoption. The adoption seeks to satisfy the interests of the child, not future parents, or adoptors. In light of the fact that there are many more potential adoptors than children who are for adoption, we certainly won't get into a situation that we won't have enough potential adoptors who fit these differences in age, so we'll be forced to break this rule. Secondly, the child’s interest is to live with parents, and if the age limit is more than 45 years of difference, then the relationship of parents is no longer established, rather than grandparents, a child, and it is certainly not in the interest of children who are given up for adoption.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12552	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12553	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have proposed to delete in Article 99 a second position, which says that an exceptional minister in charge of family protection can allow the adoption of a person older than the adoptors of less than 18 years or a person older than the adoptors for more than 45 years if, therefore, there are particularly justified reasons. We suggested that this attitude be deleted because it is undefined, inaccurate, opening up the possibility of abuse, the possibility of free evaluation. Who is it that is able to assess when the reasons are particularly justified and what professions should be ministers in order to be proportionate to determine whether the reasons for applying this position of Article 99 of the proposed law are particularly justified? Otherwise, we're always principled against such undefined concepts in the law, because we think that the law must be precise, concise, clear, and not leave any width, where it can be as well. It's not a legal solution. To give such authority to a man, I think it's an incredible responsibility for the minister to accept that he's deciding on the fate of a child, I don't know if it's normal and possible to expect from a minister at all. On the other hand, I repeat, does the minister have to be both a psychologist and a psychiatrist and I don't know what professions to make his opinion relevant? If it's going to be done by the Ministry and certain services at the Ministry, it should be in the law that it's the Ministry, not the Minister. Although we think neither the Minister nor the Ministry can and no institution can. This is an unnatural suggestion. Why? If it is normal and common for women to give birth between 18 and 45 years of age, why should we go below that natural border or cross the natural border; why would there be children in a different position who are adopted by children who are born, or who have parental custody, and these others have custody? It is particularly unacceptable to explain the government that the amendment cannot be accepted, given that the amendment of the MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meha Omerovic was accepted. Same explanation as that amendment before this. counterparts Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meho Omerovic proposed, and the government accepted it, saying "if such adoption is in the best interest of the child". It's not a neck. It's a neck. This is something that leaves at will and free interpretation of the minister when it is the best interest of the child to be adopted by a person who is less than 18 years old or more than 45 years old. Once again, it leaves the minister to evaluate it himself. Based on what? Based on what criteria? I wish you had found in the law exactly, specifically, what are the cases and what are the exceptional reasons, even if it were acceptable. This undefined, inaccurate for us from the SRS is unacceptable. We think, and that's basically why we intervened with the amendment, that this legal solution is not in the child's interest. The amendment that the government has accepted is also not in the child's interest, because it has not changed anything important, only in other words what the government, as a proposing, has already proposed in this bill. So I suggest, dear colleagues, that in voting day, since the minister obviously won't, and I don't know why he doesn't like to listen to me, so every time I speak... He'll have to be gone a little longer then, because I intend to talk about the amendments to the SRS, because I intend to convince you who are going to vote for this law to accept the amendments that are, above all, in the interest of the child, and this amendment certainly is.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12554	Ljiljana Nestorovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12555	Like Mrs Radeta, I am reporting for Article 99, which is the amendment that I have submitted, and to the same attitude that she says, I will repeat once again: "Extremely, the minister responsible for family protection can allow the adoption of a person older than the adoptive person less than 18 years old or a person who is older than the adoptors for more than 45 years if they exist" – and in the proposed law, she says, "especially justified reasons. "I agree that this is not sufficiently specific, but I think "in the best interest of the child" is something that defines the situation in a better way. I don't agree with you to delete this member. I think he should stay under the circumstances I'm proposing. I'll give you a concrete example when, say, it's in the child's best interests. Let's take some kid who, say, suffers from Down's syndrome. Most people don't like to take care of such a difficult patient. It can be done by people, say, who are older, who have enough time, enough financial resources and enough humanity to do it. I think the case is sufficient to justify the existence of this position, so that the minister, in that case, of course with consultation with his advisors who are from these specific areas, makes a decision to allow such an adoptor to take care of such a sick child. There are more examples. I think it is the one that I have cited that may most vividly explain the need for this attitude to remain, but I think the government made the right decision when it allowed our amendment to be adopted, which is that instead of particularly justified reasons it stands – in the best interests of the child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12556	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12557	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 99 to delete Article 2. A colleague, Momir Markovic, in his presentation and colleagues from the SRS who spoke about this speaker, gave enough reasons, and we did not mention the amendments submitted by colleagues from the ruling coalition. The essence of our amendment is to delete attitude 2, primarily because of possible abuses, and in the end, because of the inaccurate definition of justifiable reasons. Article 99(2) says: "Extremely, the minister responsible for family protection can allow the adoption of a person who is older than the adoptors less than 18 years old or a person who is older than the adoptors for more than 45 years if there are particularly justified reasons. "This article 99. The bill is not well-conceived. For this reason, we have tabled an amendment that the MPs in the voting day should support. This issue should have been specified more clearly, and the explanation we gave in the presentation of Mr. Momir Markovic's MP for the amendment to Article 99 is precisely for those reasons, because Article 99. The bill was not well-advised, it is imprecise and allows the minister to decide on it, unrelated to the accepted amendment of a colleague from the ruling coalition that explained her amendment before I came out for the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12558	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Zivorad Smiljanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12559	As far as this amendment is concerned, I would like to say that, although this law says that the family is a pillar of a society and we, of course, support it, is negative in the growth rate in Vojvodina since 1989 and that practically the white plague has long ruled Serbia. We were talking about rewarding or paying a third child. In the Apatin municipality, we have introduced 1% of the contribution, where we give each firstborn child 500 euros. We've already come into a position to fight for our first child, not for our third child, given the situation we're in. But what happens in practice? Very often young couples get divorced after a year and come into such a situation that practically a man goes and gets married, stays a mother with children, and then happens to get married and then practically the children from a divorced marriage take their parents, usually from their mother, to protect their daughter and to let her get married. They take over these grandchildren and practically feed them all their lives. If they're lucky, they're educated, and if not, then those kids, if Grandpa and Grandma leave early, practically stay on the street, unsettled, even though the law obliges parents. Thus, we have a situation where in many divorced marriages children remain concerned about grandparents. It would be good to allow the child to be adopted by grandparents and that the difference may be greater, until they become full - age or until they complete schooling by the age of 27. That would be very good in practice, because we would allow kids to inherit their pension and then they could get out of school. So I'm asking you that they can adopt grandparents, because there's no abuse. I read that in the front line he can't. Maybe I didn't get it right, but I'd ask you if that difference could be bigger and that grandparents could adopt children and take them on the road. Unfortunately, we have many divorced marriages. This is a big help to those kids, because we know that in the capitalism system, 2% will be rich, and the rest of the poor, and those kids, if they can't inherit pensions, won't be able to finish schooling if they're good students. Please, Minister, explain whether this possibility exists. And if there isn't, since we have few children anyway, we need to help them adopt grandparents because there's no abuse. There is only a good intention to allow children up to 18 years of age or 27 years of age, if they are studying, to inherit a pension.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12560	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 99th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Mezo Omerovic. Since the amendment was adopted by the Government and the Committee on Health and Family, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become part of the draft law. The 101st amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12561	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to the 101st Family Law, which is proposed to insert the 2nd position after Article 1 which reads: "Outstanding partners together can adopt a child if the minister responsible for family protection agreed to adoption." The purpose of this amendment, and at all of these amendments proposed by the SRS, is to strengthen the family, which should be the basic cell of our society and which for a long time, while it was fortunate, in the Serbian people it was, and which you have accelerated over the last years, and which, by this law, will suffer many negative things. The extramarital and the marriage community were well part of the previous family law in some respects, and in this same, but the aim of this amendment is to be stimulated when adopting that some primate has a marriage community. The proposed law if adopted by a person who lives alone, it can be done by special procedure if there are particularly justified reasons and if the minister in charge of family protection agrees with it. In the amendment that I have proposed, if accepted, similar consent from the minister will have to come in case they want to adopt out-of-wedth partners. The aim of this amendment is to encourage couples through this law to enter marriage communities, which are more stable and longer than non-marriage communities, and also to prevent possible abuses because it is possible for persons who are practically living alone through this institute, that is, if an extramarital union were evened with a marriage, it would be very easy to simulate the extramarital community by some persons and thus, by way of a much easier procedure, to ensure adoption than it would be according to standard procedure when adopters are mates. We think that this amendment would be primarily in the interests of children, that those living in an extramarital community, and they want to do so in the future, and adoption of a child is something that implies a longer term, which implies a certain seriousness, should not have any problem with the degree of marriage. For the sake of all this, I suggest you reconsider this amendment and support it in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12562	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 101 of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruždic-Trifunović. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12563	First, I must comment on Mr. Sarovic's amendment. I think he's discrimination. This law introduces the equalization of the marriage and the extramarital community, but throughout the law. What you're proposing is discrimination, so I couldn't agree with that, and that's why I can't vote for it, but I expect you to vote for my amendment to that same member. You have already heard that this member refers to the marital status of the adoptor. My amendment refers to item 3 which reads: "Extremely, the minister responsible for family protection can allow the adoption and the person who only lives if there are particularly justified reasons." I think this is "extremely" in fact discrimination against persons living alone when it comes to adoption. I think it is necessary to give individual adoptions if they meet the conditions prescribed by law, so I suggested that attitude 3 be changed and that it reads: "A adoption can also be allowed for a person who only lives if he meets the conditions prescribed by this law. The decision is taken by the guardianship authority." Of course, the adoption decision is always taken by the guardianship authority, but I am undermining it here for the simple reason why I say that the terms will be determined by the custody authority, and that this is extremely and particularly justified, I believe that this is a discrimination against a person who lives alone and that adoption is necessary as I suggested in the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12564	The word has Minister Slobodan Lalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12565	I wanted to clarify this last amendment that was tabled by Mrs Ruzdic. We must observe every member of this law, as well as the law in general, from the corner of the child, where the child is concerned. What child is getting adopted? Well, the one without parenting. For that child who is without parental ageing, it would be a bad position just to be adopted by one parent. The best position for a child is a complete family. That's why it's the rule of adopting two people, and it's only extremely rare for an individual to adopt a child. So, from the point of view of the child, these standards are good and logical, and in that sense this approach cannot be accepted. When it comes to this difference in the years of adoption, which we also made an exception, that is, by the rule, about so-called. a relative adoption. It's much better, from the point of view of a child, to be adopted by a relative through adoption by a relative, even though that difference is in years, than to be left without adoption. I simply stress that these solutions are good from the point of view of the child, and the amendments, from the point of view of the child, are bad. I'm just pointing to the angle from which we're looking at this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12566	National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović, a replica and then a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12567	I have to replicate to Mr. Secretary. I don't think "extremely" can be accepted, right from the corner of a child. You've got three bets. The first attitude is strongest, the second attitude is a little bit less strong, and the third attitude is the one that, if that happens, the custody body discusses it. In any case, the guardianship body conducts the procedure and it assesses. I don't see why the minister is competent to do that, if it's an extraordinary situation. To tell you the truth, I don't think he's as smart a minister as a whole in the custody body, where psychologists work, and sociologists, and lawyers and educators. Therefore, I think it is much better for a professional body, such as the guardianship body, to dress for this story in the future than for the minister himself. So I have two objections. One observation refers to the discrimination of parents themselves, or individuals. The second thing is, I don't see the minister getting involved in this story. I think the guardianship authority is sufficient; if he is in charge of the adoption process and in this situation he can conduct the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12568	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12569	A replica of what MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic said about my amendment. So she said that the amendment I submitted to the same member she filed with was discriminatory. Of course, I can't agree with that finding, and that's not the case. That the amendment that I have proposed and the amendment that you have proposed are different conditions, but these are only the conditions prescribed by law. This law regulates family relations and regulates the conditions for adoption in this particular article. You can't say in any way that this is a discriminatory amendment, because it's not according to either gender or any other social, this or that status. What's going on here is that we tried to prevent any possible abuses through this amendment. It is indisputable that those who are in the marriage community and those who are in the extramarital community can adopt. So far from this law, we have tried to prevent adoption, which is certainly in the child's interest, but we believe that the conditions needed in the case of an extramarital community, which in many cases can be simulated, should be a little stricter than when it comes to conditions that should be met by those in the marriage community. The marriage community, as we have already said, and that is easy to determine, is more permanent. We believe that those who choose to take such a step as the adoption of a child should view it as a more permanent obligation and therefore should have nothing against it, and the state should certainly encourage people and marry as many offspring as possible. It is certainly in the interest of all of us and in no way discriminatory.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12570	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12571	National MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic submitted the amendment to Article 103. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Committee on Health and Family and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? National MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12572	Article 103. The bill says a foreign citizen can adopt a child under these conditions. We have submitted an amendment to Article 103 in which we say, "A foreign citizen cannot be adopted." Such a rigid attitude can be defended with more arguments, and the government rejects this amendment only calling for our obligations under the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. I don't know if it is explicitly necessary to apply it directly to the Convention, but I will state the reasons that say there should be no legal possibility of adopting children by foreign citizens. The first reason we all know, it's demographic, and this time we don't need to open up a wider discussion. Another reason is that after the adoption of the party, the possibility of monitoring the way parents' rights are exercised by foreign citizens is lost. The custody authority, the domestic court, is no longer able to monitor how adoptors exercise parental rights and cannot react, they cannot even learn that there has been a harsh violation of parental rights in terms of child abuse. It is stated here that adoption by a foreign citizen can be approved, i.e. that the minister can approve it if fosterers cannot be found among domestic citizens. And point 2 is said: "It will be considered that adoptors cannot be found among domestic citizens if more than a year has passed since the date of the entry of data on a future adoptor into a unique personal adoption register. "When we get to that member who treats the adoption process, the importance of this personal register of adoption, then we will see that this period of one year is no guarantee and there is no proof that domestic citizens could not be found for the child, because this law does not set absolutely any deadlines for the custody authority to start and complete the adoption process. According to current practice, which has absolutely not been questioned by this law, the custody body, according to local jurisdiction, can forever leave a child without parental ageing without letting him go into adoption. There are no deadlines there, so it is possible for a child deliberately to be guarded for a specific foreign citizen, a potential adoptor. A child with extremely positive characteristics, especially health, racial, can be kept for a foreign citizen by deliberately missing a deadline of one year to find an adequate couple of our citizens, who are ready for adoption, and we know that there are many more potential adopters than children available. I've already said, once we agree to foreign adoption and when it's based, our organs, the court, the custody bodies, lose sight of what's going on with that child. There are possible, not only in theory, we know that from practice, heavy abuses, and we shouldn't be so easily wronged about the fate of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12573	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go, first Mr Albianic, and by amendment Mr Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12574	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that, according to the Rules of Procedure, we extend the work, with the ninth point, to the end of the debate on the ninth item of the agenda. I'm asking the Assembly to make a statement on this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12575	Thank you. I ask the Parliament to plead. Who is it for the Assembly to continue working today until the debate on this point is over? Here you go. First quorum. It'll show if there's a quorum, for God's sake. It's visible from the vote always. For 122, five of the 127 MPs did not vote. I find that the Assembly has accepted that today is done until the end of the ninth point. Now first he has the word of MP Momir Markovic... I'm sorry, I didn't see you, please, first Mrs Radeta, then Momir Markovic, Milivove Vukovic, Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović. At the same time, I'm asking for some attention. Since the third channel will not be able for technical reasons to transfer the assembly from 17.30 to 19.35, know that during that period since the work of the Assembly is public, then we will not have a session. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12576	Ladies and gentlemen, it's important that the Third Channel transferred to the Assembly when it was seen to be 121 cards, and 122 voted to extend the work, but well, we can work and work. Of course, we're here to work from 10.00 in the morning, and you're still starting at 11.00 today, but good. (Glass: It's not true. We'll do it the second time, it's true, we started at 10:55 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12577	Here you go, Mrs. Radeta, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12578	So, an amendment to MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic's 103rd MP, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party. This amendment requires that a foreign citizen cannot be adopted. For us Serbian radicals, it is absolutely and unconditionally unacceptable that a foreign citizen can be the adoptor of our children. I'm sorry, Mrs. Radeta. [[Sagar.]] Please, make it possible for the MP, there's so much noise. They don't mind me, just let them walk, they come to vote and go, I work all day anyway. So, neither do we have... Our reasons why we do not accept and we cannot accept that a foreign citizen can be adopted, in a brief explanation we said, are: against foreign adoption there are demographic reasons, professional reasons, the inability of custody authorities to have insight into the way in which custody is played by persons living in another country. [[Sagar.]] That is what the applicant for the amendment, Miroslav Nedeljkovic, spoke of. In another way, I will try to bring you closer and explain why we Serbian radicals cannot accept something like this. First, according to the Government, the amendment cannot be accepted because it does not comply with Article 21. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which stipulates a Member State's obligation to provide alternative types of care, and now listen - including interstate adoption, to children who cannot be adequately taken care of in the country of origin. We don't have a case like this or we can have one. Therefore, our amendment does not violate either this member or any member of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Why do I say we can't have a situation like that? Well, we know that in Serbia we have three times as many families who are willing to adopt a child as there are children to adopt. Then where does our obligation, according to this convention, allow foreign citizens to adopt our children? After all, look at the surrounding countries. Why didn't the Croats put in such a provision? They said their children could only be adopted by Croatian citizens. This morning we were witnesses, when we were coming to the congregation, a group of parents were waiting for us who had been unsuccessfully trying to prove that their children had been stolen at birth, or shortly after birth. As long as it takes, you're all probably familiar with these disputes, which from the public, which from direct contact, because parents also came to parliamentary groups, are looking for help from poor people from all over the country, and they obviously don't have any help from anywhere. But that's why they have this law, which will encourage those who may have been involved in stealing their children to do it for a lot more money now, for some foreigners, who will be willing to pay to get a healthy child from Serbia. The abuses that will open this member of the law are, you will see, unfortunately, that we will be right, incredible proportions. So I'm asking you to reconsider. It should be possible for children who have no parental care to be adopted, but in families in Serbia, to be adopted by Serbian citizens. Do not contribute in this way to the repression of the white plague, to open up the possibility that those children born in Serbia as little babies are taken abroad, who knows for what purposes and who knows with what intentions, and you all know about begging children and various abuses. Don't play games, don't just send babies or babies on a trip without going back abroad. There are enough human and good people in Serbia, those who want to adopt children, who need adoption. Please consider this amendment, adopt it, because it is truly inappropriate and I stress, I see the minister reporting for a word, Minister -- we have no obligation under any convention to introduce such a provision into this law. Don't let your idol be Angelina Jolie, who adopted that kid from China; that's nice, but she lives in other conditions and the question is whether or not she's going to see it. Of course, I have no doubt that this child will not be well from a material point of view. Once again, please, this is a serious matter, fellow MPs, vote in favour of this amendment, do not accept that our children are adopted by foreigners.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12579	Thank you. I'm taking a break until 7:30, when we get back to work. The first will have the word of MP Momir Markovic. Thank you. [[After a break.]] We'll continue at the afternoon session. Please, at the beginning, let us determine the quorum. I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. Please call MP Momir Markovic. He's not present. ) The next speaker is Milivove Vukovic (not present). Anybody else answer for a word? We'll allow the MP Markovic to speak, he's here. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12581	Don't be hasty, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, this law and the law on agencies will be over by 6:30 in the morning. Here's a key member, to whom it was necessary to submit the amendment. You were witnesses recently, when the tsunami hit that part down the globe, that many parents had to use DNA to prove that they were real parents of children. Since the country is getting older, that the population is getting older, that much fewer children are born than they should for simple reproduction, such a member of the law should certainly not be adopted. Article 103(1) says - a foreign citizen can adopt a child on condition that no adoptors can be found among domestic citizens, 2nd, that the minister responsible for family protection has agreed to adopt. Article 3 says, "Extremely, the minister responsible for family protection may allow the adoption of a foreign citizen before the deadline laid down in Article 2 expires if there are particularly justified reasons for this." Justified reasons, especially justified reasons, for children born in Serbia to be adopted by foreign citizens, are not available. I filed on behalf of the SRS amendment, which requires that this attitude be deleted... One moment, ladies and gentlemen, to find Article 99.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12582	Please speak of the amendment to Article 103 submitted by Ambassador Nedeljkovic. But you're absolutely right, that's the topic you're talking about -- adoption and a proposal to delete, that instead of a member of the 103rd, a foreign citizen can't be an adoptor.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12583	Exactly, Article 3 of this article should be deleted and foreign citizens should not be allowed to adopt children born in the territory of our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12584	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The next speaker is Aleksandar Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12585	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an amendment submitted by my colleague from the Serbian Radical Party, Dr Miroslav Nedeljkovic, member 103. The proposal for family law is changed and it reads: "A foreign citizen cannot be adopted." I think this amendment should be adopted for a number of reasons. First of all, there are three times more applications for adoption than there are children, so I see no reason why foreign citizens would be involved. The government is being built and said - the amendment is not being accepted because it does not comply with Article 21. United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. I think it's something else, not this convention. It is the personal interest of individuals and the possibility of various manipulations, fraud and child abuse. We have a fine example of Mr. Baralic in the principle debate. Rich businessmen, when they adopt a child here, lower the tax base in overseas countries, to income from seven to eight million dollars, even for a million dollars; so please tell me that this child was not adopted for personal interest, but for human reasons, despite the fact that the adoptor also has children. Yes, the law stipulates that a stranger will be able to adopt a child if more than a year has passed since the date of the entry of data on a future adoptor into a unique personal adoption register. There are huge possibilities for abuse of position here, but now under the auspices of the law. This means that the responsible worker will be able to manipulate children and even "save" a suitable child for a foreign millionaire, but with good compensation, which in our case, knowing what economic situation we are in and what conditions we live in, would be impossible. I would like Mr. Minister (ordinarily not here) to explain to us, if the adoptor is a foreign citizen, how he will determine that he has personal qualities based on which it can be concluded that parental rights will be exercised in the best interests of the child, as provided for in Article 100. The proposal for family law and how to prepare the person for adoption, when Article 102 says the person will be prepared according to a specific programme. I'm still interested in what our options are to monitor what happens next to that child who's abroad -- how he lives, whether he develops normally, what family he's in. Or we simply gave up one citizen for all time, and I think that in this period of reduced birth and so on. "white plagues" isn't a smart move. In the end, I'd say this. Mr. Minister is left with the possibility, in two to three members, that he may allow the adoption of a foreign citizen if there are particularly justified reasons for this. I wonder what the reasons are, and what does that depend on? Is it the thickness of the blue envelope or the color of the bills in it? If he is not doing something else, then it would be best for Mr. Minister to accept such a good amendment to the Serbian Radical Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12586	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Alexander Djordjevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12587	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, counterpart Miroslav Nedeljkovic has submitted an amendment to Article 103 to change and to read: "A foreign citizen cannot be an adoptor". In the light of the amendments given: "There are demographic and professional reasons against foreign adoption – the inability of the custody authorities to have insight into the way in which they play a parenting role by persons living in another country. "Of course, the Government of the Republic of Serbia gave a negative opinion on this amendment and gave the following explanation: "Amendment cannot be accepted for reasons that do not comply with Article 21. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which requires Member States to provide alternative types of care, including inter-state adoption, to children who cannot be taken care of in the country of origin. "I am a 103 member of the adoptor's citizenship says in the first position: "A foreign citizen can adopt a child on condition that no adoptors can be found among domestic citizens; 2. that the minister in charge of family protection has agreed with adoption. "The Serbian Radical Party believes that this is one of the key members on which we have written the amendments and that, in favour of this explanation of all our colleagues who went out for the speaker, defending this amendment to Article 103, the Serbian government will bear in mind that this parliamentary majority in the Assembly will vote for the SRS amendment, precisely for these reasons that we have raised behind this speaker. We need above all to make laws in this congregation that will protect our vital interests. This should be taken into account, and of course, our argument that we are against foreign adoption, especially when it comes to demographic reasons. I therefore hope that the parliamentary majority in the voting day will support Mr Miroslav Nedeljkovic's amendment, i.e. the SRS parliamentary group, to Article 103. We believe that this member of 103 must change and that this very argument should stand, in Article 103, that a foreign citizen cannot adopt a child under the conditions that this is what the Government here has highlighted in the bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12588	Anyone else by this amendment? National MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12589	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic and this is one, it would say, of the extremely important amendments. It's about custody. Under the proposal for an amendment issued by the SRS, foreign citizens cannot adopt children in Serbia. This is important for a number of reasons. It is important because there are more than enough people in Serbia who cannot adopt children, which is what they would like. It is certainly a state interest to meet them first, and only then to someone outside the borders of this country. On the other hand, from day to day, there are more and more couples who can't have children, and there are growing demands for the adoption of children. What will happen in the future is certain that the need for adoption will be even greater and that these children will be even less. The argument given here by the Government – that the amendment cannot be accepted for reasons contrary to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child – is not true because Article 21. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child says an alternative way of care will be provided, including interstate adoption, but only in case children cannot adequately be taken care of in the country of origin. So, the UN Convention speaks clearly of the priority of childcare in countries of origin. As we have already seen, in the state of Serbia, unfortunately, there are many more people who would adopt, so this is not a problem. The other thing that is extremely problematic in this article is that the minister was given powers that he could in no way have. Because it is said that "a foreign citizen can adopt a child under the condition: 1. that fosterers cannot be found among domestic citizens; 2. that the minister in charge of family protection has agreed to adoption", and then in the third position it is said that none of these two, or the first and most important of these two conditions, is valid, i.e. that the minister can freely and voluntarily bypass it, if he considers that there are particularly justified reasons. In that case, it is not necessary to spend one year from the entry of data on the future adoptor into the single personal adoption register. In the event of the minister's assessment, it is possible that, on the same day as those adopted by the adoption officer, or after two or three days – for which time absolutely cannot the custody authorities or other state bodies react, nor is it possible that in our country, which would have to be a priority, they will find persons who will adopt a child – without any deadline and without any restrictions, the resolute foreign minister allows the foreign citizen to adopt a child from Serbia. What comes after this, after adoption, is that the state, or the ruling coalition, did not accept absolutely no mechanisms of controlling what would happen in the future with that family, or with that child. You've boasted a lot by explaining this law that much will be done to protect children's rights and prevent domestic violence, but I ask you what happens if a child like this is the victim of any kind of violence tomorrow. When a child is adopted abroad under other international conventions, normally that child will get the citizenship of his parents, of course that child will be changed, and the state will have absolutely no authority, no control, no other control over that child. Who is our guarantee that tomorrow, due to the abuse of whether those who adopt, do ministers, some of these children will not end up as white slaves? Who is our guarantee that these children will not end up as organ donors, who is our guarantee that these children will not end in the worst possible way? Of course, unfortunately, there are no such guarantees here, no one thought about it, nor did he foresee any restrictions and any means of control after adoption. So I suggest you consider this amendment. It's extremely important, and you need to accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12590	Anyone else on the same amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic. Since the amendment was adopted by the Government and the Committee on Health and Family, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted to Article 112 by MP Anita Beretic. Since the amendment was adopted by the Government and the Committee on Health and Family, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 126, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. (Alexander Vukic, from the site: We asked for a word for Meh Omerovic's amendment. I'm sorry, I didn't hear. Here you are, MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12591	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 126 of the Family Law. For the sake of our public, I'm just going to short-circuit Article 126. Article 126 regulates custody. The first position of that member says who can subjectively be a guardian, and these are persons who have the personal qualities and abilities necessary to carry out the duties of guardians. Attitude 2 is objective nature and speaks of family bond. These are some objective reasons why he can become a guardian, or accept a guardian as a guardian. In particular, a spouse, relative or guardian shall be appointed as guardian unless the protégé is in the interest of the protégé. On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 126 to add, in addition to these two positions, a third position – that the guardians can be named as close relatives, and they are obliged to accept custody except (and this is something objective and recommended) in case they are older than 60 years of age, sick, already having custody, have more underage children or one child under the age of seven. So these are reasons why close relatives could not be appointed guardians. Why did we propose this amendment? This amendment is proposed for the reason that the SRS puts the family in the central place, certainly before anything else, for the reason that children in need of custody would be able to raise them normally, so that the family would be what brings us closer together, and of course the state, with a healthy family, would function more healthy and normal. I have a very interesting explanation for not accepting this amendment from the government. He says: "The amendment cannot be accepted because the solution proposed by the amendment was contained in the current Law on Marriage and Family Relations and in the present application did not produce positive results. "The government's work so far has not yielded positive results and the SRS is not satisfied with its work, and of course the citizens of Serbia are no longer satisfied, as they expected much more and much better. This argument given by the Government for not accepting this amendment can drink water as much as we appreciate the government's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12592	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12593	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm just going to take a few sentences to look back on the little amendment, because I didn't hear the president of the Parliament very well, I'm guilty, I apologize. So, first of all, I think that the Government and Resolute Minister... and I don't know what he has more important to do at this point, working hours in the government is, as far as I know, finished long ago, and the Serbian Parliament is sitting down and I don't see that there's anything smarter to do than sit down and hear what MPs think about individual members of the law and amendments to individual members. Anyway, I don't think he can... Good evening, Mr. Minister. I believe that the Serbian government must accept an amendment that speaks of the inability for foreigners to adopt our children. That's very significant for two reasons. It's not about any xenophobia, as some would like to show, it's about very practical reasons. There are three reasons. The first is demographic nature. So we in Serbia have a lot more old people than young people, I speak proportionally and percentageally, and especially in comparison with those countries called young countries, such as Turkey, Albania and other countries. So we absolutely cannot compare, nor by chance praise the more significant share of the younger population in the general population. Another reason is that there is no possibility of following the very custody of children adopted by a stranger. So there's no way to know how a child develops, preserves, raises, and how he is raised. The third reason that could be accepted is the fact that this opens up opportunities for numerous abuses. We have a logical question, which here, I think, there is no answer. We have three times the number of people reported by our people who, for various physical reasons, cannot have children, want to adopt children, want to give them the warmth of their home, want to do everything in their power. They are usually people who love children terribly, whose purpose is to adopt such a child and to show their love for children. So, instead of allowing these people to gain more easily and faster custody and, at the same time, to make children happy much faster, now the foreigners are going to get that kind of opportunity. For what? He doesn't know anyone, but he says, "That's what the Convention says." That's not what the convention says. It writes under what conditions – when in a country there is no possibility of otherwise meeting that kind of need. It seems that someone learns and dissipates every time they don't know what else to say: it is in accordance with European Union standards, and it is in accordance with conventions, the third one is in line with what. That's not true. I'm saying it's not true. It doesn't say that in the Convention on the Rights of the Child. I'll get it for you, and you show me the article in which it says it. So, a very practical and pragmatic reason why it would be good for that amendment to Article 103 to be accepted. As far as Article 126 is concerned, it is something that is very close to reason: let us commit close relatives, those closest relatives, closest relatives, and not have more than one underage child or child under the age of seven, to have custody of such persons. I think nothing more natural, nothing closer to reason, nothing closer to our tradition, nothing closer to our family than that. I don't see why anyone would be afraid of it or why anyone would avoid it. I have yet to ask, I know that it is not always the minister's business, it deals with professional services in the Government of the Republic of Serbia – I would like that when they respond to the amendments and send their opinions not to be such bureaucratic responses, that they are not the same answers to every amendment and question raised, any amendments proposed by the MPs, but that someone really sits down, who wants to deal with it, and that the essential answers are addressed to the MPs and the National Assembly, because MPs and the National Assembly deserve it, as representatives of the people and citizens of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12594	Thank you. The word is, according to the same amendment, MP Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12595	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if a child is left without a parent for any reason (if parents have divorced or died or abandoned), it is only natural that custody of such a child should be entrusted to close relatives. In this regard are primarily grandfathers and grandparents, and Dr. Smiljanić, in his presentation before this break, unequivocally confirmed these very words that I now pronounce, therefore, close relatives, first of all grandparents and grandparents, and first-line relatives, uncle, aunt, etc. In the government's explanation of why the amendment was not accepted, the amendment is not accepted because the solution proposed by the amendment was contained in the current Law on Marriage and Family Relations and in the previous application did not produce positive results. I know a lot of families where the children were being nursed just by grandparents, parents, and today these children are decent citizens of this country. I don't see who assessed that it didn't give positive results and that it would be much more positive results that if some grandparents don't look after grandparents, they don't take care of him, they don't look after grandparents, they don't look after him, they don't look after him. I think this amendment should be adopted, because it brings this law into some kind of harmony.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12596	The word has a folk MP and Parliament Speaker Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12597	I would just like to thank Minister Lalovic for the fact that, as we know, the authors of this law, who have worked on this law for years, have included a member who allows the best part of the Serbian tradition to be respected, which is that in times of crisis, as always in the Balkans, the situation we had during the period after the First World War, after the Balkan wars when Serbian children adopted, first of all, Greeks, then the French. Thanks to this, we had several excellent patriots and scientists who returned after the adoption, extended friendship and allowed it to continue and create a Serbian state.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12598	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 130th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rajko Baralić, Toma Busetic and Milisav - Misa Petronijevic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Milan Stevović submitted to Article 143 of the amendment. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12599	Ladies and gentlemen, here's another amendment that's in the absolute interest of the child. Namely, in Article 143. The draft law provides for the rights of guardians, i.e. right to compensation for expenses. In Article 143, the custodian is told that he has the right to compensation for the eligible costs incurred during custody operations. The cost of the guardian shall be paid primarily from the protégé’s income, unless it endangers the protégé’s maintenance. On these two points, we did not have any objection to this article, but we have therefore proposed to add another position that reads: "If the cost of the guardian cannot be compensated from the protégé's assets, the custody authority is obliged to compensate for the compensation from its own funds". We in the SRS feel that there is nothing more normal and celery than this way of regulating the cost of the guardian, because we cannot come into a situation to question custody because of lack of funds. Unfortunately, the most common or common situation is the custody of children who do not have material resources and for this very reason, because their parents do not have funds or are homeless, mostly these material reasons are the most common reasons why children come into the situation that they have to be adopted. It would be completely insane and unnatural to separate someone who has money and who doesn't have money in that way. That is why there is a state, that even those who do not have the resources from certain sources provide those resources. In view of the reasons why this amendment is not accepted, it is said that the amendment cannot be accepted for the reason that the compensation of the eligible costs incurred during the custody operations, the custodian shall primarily be derived from the protégé of the protégé of the protégé of the protégété, provided for in Article 138. Article 138 indeed states that the custodian is obliged to take all necessary measures to obtain funds for the maintenance of the protégé, and that these funds are supplied from: the protégé’s income, the funds obtained by the person legally obliged to support the protégé, the protégé of assets, social protection funds and other sources. I assume the government was referring to Section 4. - funds for social protection. Then it always looks like the minimum but insufficient means. It is not a good argument of the Government, because what the Government predicted in the draft law in Article 143 is already seen in Article 138 and then there is no reasonable reason not to include this amendment as Article 3rd, Article 143. Simply, for the safety of the protégé, for the purpose of the obligation of the custody authority to provide those funds. I hope that the MPs in the voting day will vote in favour of this amendment because this is also one of those amendments that do not spoil the concept of the government's bill, which are only in favour of a normal application of the law, in favour of the protection of those which you only declare to protect. Wherever we have tried, in a concrete amendment, to rightly and legally correct the law, so that it really makes sense and corresponds to its purpose, you do not know for which reasons you do not accept, at least the Government, but I hope that the MPs in the voting day will vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12600	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12601	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have yet to see another extremely good amendment to the SRS. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stevovic. It refers to Article 143 and this amendment is proposed to add Article 3 after Article 2 which states that if the cost of the guardian cannot be compensated from the protégé’s assets, the custody authority is obliged to compensate for the compensation from its own funds. I don't think it should explain much why it's important if the funds for the protégé can't be provided from its resources, that the state is guaranteed that these funds, which are necessary, will be paid right by the state. I think it's clear to everyone and I won't waste my time on it. But an interesting argument is the Government's argument that the amendment is not accepted because the compensation for the eligible costs incurred during custody operations is regulated, among other things, by Article 138. The draft law, paragraphs 2 and 5, which stipulates that funds to meet the needs of the protégé, will also be provided from social protection funds and other sources. Whoever read this law, and certainly those who wrote this argument, headed by the minister, should be, knows that in article 138, the procurement of funds to support the proteges is regulated. Anyone who wrote... I don't know who wrote this argument, but the minister is certainly behind it, which, legally speaking, is completely illiterate. Article 138 says the guardian is obliged to take all necessary measures to obtain funds to support the protégé. Then there are five points in the second position, which are all ways and which are the sources from which the guardian can provide means to support the protégé. This article does not establish anyone's obligation to allocate any funds to a protégé. So it's either the protégé's income, the protégé's assets, the persons who are obliged to support the protégé, the means of social protection and other sources. But what if there is no income for the protégé, if there are no persons legally required to support it and if it has no property? Then what? This article shall not establish an obligation for any State authority to pay any compensation. Here, let the minister come out and say on the basis of which member of the law the guardian will be able to claim compensation for a protégé, which he cannot achieve. This will certainly not be possible on the basis of Article 143, as Article 143 says that the custodian has the right to compensation for eligible costs and that the compensation to the guardian is paid primarily from the protégégé’s incomes, unless the protégé’s maintenance is compromised. So, if you would accept the amendment of the SRS and add another position here, then we would have a legal basis for someone, if they have to go to court, to ask the state what they're entitled to. In this way, you are formally declaring a right, but you are not declaring it to any member, but you are declaring it a justification for not accepting the amendment. So what's done is legally pointless. I call once again on the minister to say on the basis of which member of the family law tomorrow the guardian will be able to sue the court and seek compensation for something he has given for his protégé.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12602	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 153 of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Please, MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12603	Article 153 is contained in the Chapter Supporting Mother and Child and speaks about who has the right to support. Article 153(1) states: "A child's mother who does not have enough means to support a child's father during three months before birth and one year after childbirth." I suggested that a part of the sentence be added instead of the point at the end of the bet: "and in case the child was born or died after birth, during the inability to work caused by birth, but for up to one year from the day of birth of the child". I suggested that Section 2 be deleted, and it reads, "There is no right to support the mother if accepting her application for support would be an obvious injustice for the father." I believe that Article 2 should be deleted for the simple reason that there are already certain criteria for determining maintenance in Article 160 of the same proposal, in paragraph 3. The addition that I suggested for attitude 1 explains this position, regardless of what the legislator thinks is overstated, since this refers to both the dead and the living child. I think a much better solution is the way I suggest it is than what the legislator suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12604	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 153 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? MP Vojislav Milajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12605	Chapter seven of the Law regulates the Institute of Maintenance and provides for four types of maintenance: supporting spouses, supporting out-of-marriage partners, supporting mothers and children and supporting children, parents and close relatives. This is provided for in Articles 151 to 167. A bill of this law. As regards a specific Article 153 of Section 2 and amendments to the SRS, this article provides that a child's mother may request support from the father of a child three months before birth and one year after childbirth, and this right may be denied to the mother, as provided for in Article 2, if she presents an obvious injustice to the father. Of course, the SRS represents the interests of those who need to be supported, in this case it is the mother and newborn child, however, the formulation "represents an obvious injustice for the father" is not happily formulated and does not correspond to this institute proposed in this law. The SRS amendment proposed that instead of formulating "represents an obvious injustice for the father" the mother would lose her right to support if it would lead to difficult material opportunities. The formulation is much more precise and accurate than this proposed in the law, because the maintenance depends not on justice or injustice, but on the maintenance of the social category and it should depend on the material position of the mother and child that was born. Thus, if a mother is in a situation where she needs support, that she has no means to support herself and her newborn child, the support that a father would give not only helps her mother, but also helps that child. If the mother had enough resources, she wouldn't even have submitted that request to the child's father, but because she was threatened, she was automatically and this newborn child was at risk. Thus, it is not a matter of justice and injustice, but of the material possibilities of the father, whether the father has material opportunities to support the mother or not. We think that the much more precise formulation proposed in this amendment is and we believe that the Assembly should adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12606	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12607	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 155. The bill is defined when an adult child has the right to support. This member has four positions. The first two define the conditions in which the adult child is entitled to support, in the third position it is defined when that maintenance must be provided by someone else, if parents are not alive or unable to support the adult child, and in the fourth position it is defined when the adult child does not have the right to support. The first attitude says that a full - age child who is incapable of work has the right to endure as long as this incompetence lasts, means such a condition that has led to incompetence. In a second attitude, it is said that a full - time child who is in regular school has the right to be maintained by the age of 26 at the latest. The third attitude says that if a child’s parents are not alive or have insufficient funds, in which case a full - age child should support a blood relative in a straight line, proportionate to their possibilities. This isn't controversial either. This is acceptable and logical, but in the fourth position we intervened with an amendment that may be more formal-technical, but we think it is in the spirit of the proposed member of the law and that it should be accepted. The amendment concerns exactly what Mr. Milajic was saying about the previous member. The amendment is the same as Mr. Milajić's previous amendment, but I will do it again. I'm going to give you a few more arguments to support the adoption of this amendment. In the fourth point, it states that he does not have the right to support a full - time child if accepting his request for support would be an obvious injustice for parents, or other blood relatives. Again, we intervened in this "obvious injustice" and my amendment, as well as Mr. Milajić's amendment, tends to replace these words with the words "obvious injustice" with the words "made for difficult material opportunities". What exactly is this about? Our goal is to remain in the spirit of the proposed member, and the purpose of the member is to observe the social opportunities and aspects of parents, or persons who support a full - time child. We think that the term "obvious injustice" is not suitable for application in this place, that this is the social aspect, the material opportunities of parents, and that we should remain in that spirit of the material and social aspect of which this member is called. Therefore, we ask the Proposer to consider this. However, the material condition of parents is something that is measurable, which can be checked and measured, and this term "obvious injustice" is too abstract, at least for application in this article. I call upon the motionary to consider and accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12608	Thank you. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12609	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of SRS MP Zlatan Jovanovic points out and draws attention to the fact that it is in article 155. The bill norms something that will be absolutely inadmissible in practice. In fact, the question now arises, in the position of the 3rd member, which body, in which way and in which procedure to determine if the adult child is within the meaning of Articles 1 and 2 of this Article, that he is entitled to support from blood relatives in the right vertical line, proportionate to their possibilities, if parents are not alive or if they do not have sufficient means of support. What are we gonna do? By what procedure should this be determined? Secondly, who's going to determine what procedure? Will it be administrative proceedings, litigation proceedings, will there be a criminal offence if he who is obliged to grant support under this law... Please, it's unclear. Therefore, this provision will not be applicable. I even have to tell you that our family legislation has been taken over from European countries, a good part of the Austrian civil law, especially when it comes to the property regime between spouses and the obligation to support spouses, and the obligation to support children and protégés. Then from Swiss, French, German civil law. So we can freely say that we have had more regulated legal relations than is proposed by some of the provisions of this bill. I therefore believe that the Government should have accepted this amendment, because if this member is adopted, it will be a dead letter on paper. This can't be applied. Imagine now – blood relatives in the right line, proportionate to their contribution and proportionate to their economic power; so the question is who will make the decision, in what procedure, whether someone will have the right to appeal or not, and how a decision will be made in relation to this member. That is why the SRS's objection to the text of this law is also on a number of members who have been proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12610	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 156 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12611	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, here is one in a series of amendments to the same content, for the simple reason that they are also members of these amendments in that part of the same content, and there are several more after this. We Serbian radicals, as you can see, insist and try to convince you that it is meaningful and justifiable that this amendment, as well as previous and several amendments after this, is accepted because it is the only way to make this law i.e. These members are real and applicable, because what you have suggested is something that will not be applied in practice. Article 156 speaks of supporting parents, so I will read the first point: "A parent who is incompetent to work, and does not have enough means to support, has the right to support from a adult child or another blood relative in a real low-level line, or from a minor child who earns a profit or has income from property, in proportion to his opportunities. "Of course no one has anything against this obligation. This is an obligation, but in the second position, what you are undermining in the first position is that you are trying to demean and question, because in the second point, you said that "there is no right to support a parent if accepting his request for support would be an obvious injustice for a child, or another blood relative". No one has yet explained to us who it is that will determine what "obvious injustice" is, in which way, which are criteria, who is who will take the obligation to say to themselves – well, this is an obvious injustice, this child should not support his parents who do not have the material opportunities to support themselves. Especially since you didn't see anyone else in this text that you'd possibly have this ungrateful role to anticipate. That is why we have proposed, as well as in these several previous and subsequent members, to specify what the Government has proposed and to say that there is possibly no right to support parents if accepting his request for support would lead to difficult material opportunities for a person who is obliged to support his parents. It's certainly much more precise, more concrete, there are actually exact data that can determine that. So we don't leave anyone at will, we don't leave the possibility of abuse, but in a more comprehensive way we regulate this issue. What does the government now say about this and all the amendments? He says, "The amendment cannot be accepted because the formulation is given in the bill more clearly and has a more general character than the formulation proposed by the amendment." We have also made an amendment because of this general and unspecified character. The government gave an explanation as if it had accepted the amendment, and of course did not accept the amendment, and in its own explanation it is contradictory with the proposal set out in Article 156(2) and several other members, which are being spoken of here and will be spoken of. I propose that this amendment be adopted because it will contribute to a more comprehensive application of the law, which is ultimately more just, which those to whom this member of the law is concerned will have some concrete benefit from such a formulated member, as we are proposing from the SRS, and as the Government suggests, there is no, so to speak, useful value. The same amendment was submitted by counterpart Dragoljub Stamenkovic to the next member. Right away, I have the same explanation for that amendment, and it refers to the maintenance of the Tabian relatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12612	I thank Mrs. Radetti. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 159 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 160 of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. He has the word National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12613	The amendment I submitted to Article 160 refers, in fact, to erasing the minimum amount of support. It is a new concept, that is, as the legislators called it, a legal standard, which I think is too high in this law, not only excessive, but completely inappropriate. The first position of Article 160 says: "The maintenance is determined according to the needs of the trustee and the possibilities of the maintenance debtor, taking into account the minimum amount of maintenance". My proposal is that this supplement behind the comma "which takes care of the minimum amount of support", is deleted. I suggest erasing him for the reason he's in Article 162, where he's talking about the level of support, clearly what is the amount that can be judged. In Article 167, which refers to the termination of maintenance, point 2 is said – when the maintenance debtor loses the possibility of giving or giving support is clearly unfair. In other words, I would like to say that nothing is worth taking care of the minimum amount of maintenance if the circumstances set out in Article 167 arise, which is already provided for by that member, and the amount of the sum is determined by Article 162. I suggested that the supplement be deleted in the first position and, also, to delete attitude 4, which is simply trying to say what the minimum amount means, and this is the proposal: "The minimum amount of maintenance represents the amount which, in accordance with the law, is paid as a provision for the feeders or for the persons on the family accommodation." When we know that certain percentages are to support, when we know what's going on, if there's no longer a chance of giving up this new standard, which they're trying to introduce, it's completely too high.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12614	I thank Mrs. Leili Ruzdic-Trifunović. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 167 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. There is a word from MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12615	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 167. It is an amendment linked to several previous members, to which the amendments were submitted by Goran Cvetanovic and Dragoljub Stamenkovic. I don't think he should be too slow. It's about legal improvement of text. This amendment stipulates that Article 167 in point 2 of point 2 of the word "became obviously unfair" for the substitutes in the words "brings the maintenance debtor into difficult material opportunities". It is, then, that the maintenance will stop when the maintenance debtor loses the ability to provide support or to give support brings the maintenance debtor into difficult material opportunities. If a formulation were to remain – that it would become obviously unfair for a maintenance debtor – we will be in a situation where courts or individual judges will assess from case to case what is clearly unfair, so what is in one court is clearly not going to be in another, which is clearly not in the second-degree court. This will then lead us to legal uncertainty, to the different conduct of courts in similar or similar situations. I think it's much better to accept this amendment, to put on some legal term that could much better regulate this. I suggest you reconsider this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12616	I thank Mr. Sarovic. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruždic-Trifunović to Article 188. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12617	I'm already boring myself. (President: Here, you're not boring. ) Article 188 speaks of a marriage contract, which I spoke about in principle and had some regrets about, but basically I think it is a good solution. His first position speaks of the possibility to conclude a marriage contract; the second position speaks of the form of its conclusion; the third position foresees the public and says: "The marriage contract relating to immovableities is entered into the public register of the right to immovable property". I suggest adding "if there are legal conditions". I think this supplement is absolutely necessary. The bill promoter replied that enrolment in the public registries register is always carried out on the basis of regulations. I'm not talking about regulations, I'm talking about legal conditions. Of course, registration is based on regulations, but there are not always legal conditions to do so; in a country where land books are the same as we do most buildings in Belgrade, without talking about Serbia, about southern Serbia, where land books are not even arranged. For me, the legal condition is that only when the land is entered into public books can the registration of property subject to a contract in a public book be made.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12618	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12619	The honourable MPs, one of the newspapers included in the draft law, are spouses' contracts: in addition to the marriage contract, management contracts and the availability of common assets, and the gift contract. As regards these previous two contracts, the first provision refers to the fact that spouses are able to conclude a marriage contract and may conclude a contract on the management and availability of joint assets. Unfortunately, in the provisions of Article 190, where a gift contract is mentioned, which is the title of this article, is not spoken of anywhere, which would be logically and legally justified and necessary, so that spouses can conclude a gift contract. As a member of 190 is formulated, he should read it – the return of gifts. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Section 3, where the right to return the gift does not have a spouse if accepting his request to return the gift would be an obvious injustice for another spouse. The amendment also refers to the formulation "obvious injustice for another spouse". Unfortunately, the government's response to this amendment is that it cannot be accepted for the same reasons as mentioned for not accepting the amendments of MP Vojislav Milajic to Article 153. A clearer and more general character, as stated in the reply to the amendment of MP Milajić, cannot be justified, if it is gifts, and it is unusual gifts of mates, according to a contract to be concluded or if they wish to conclude on the giving and receipt of gifts, and the contract is a bonding relationship, and as any, and this gift agreement is terminated by a lawsuit in the general court of law. Therefore, it is also necessary for this amendment to be accepted in order to be clearer, since a spouse should not return a gift that is of greater value, is not a common gift, if, by returning that gift, it would lead to a difficult material situation. I hope you will understand that this amendment should in some way correct this position 3 and more precisely formulate the return of gifts that are greater than the total acquired property, which is regulated by attitude 2 in marriage.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12620	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 194 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Ivan Radic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12621	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the 194th Family Law. It refers to part of the law governing the property relations of children and parents, or specifically to the right of residence. Article 194 reads: "Children and parents who exercise parental rights have the right to live on an apartment owned by another parent child if the child and parent who exercise parental rights do not have the right to property in a habitable apartment. The right of residence lasts until the child's adulthood. They have no right to have a child and a parent if accepting their claim for the right of residence would be an obvious injustice for another parent." This third position of the law is quite vague and somewhat vague, and I have therefore focused my amendment on the third position of Article 194 in which I say that after the word "injustice" should be added to the brackets "the only apartment, the establishment of another family". In fact, there are a lot of inaccuracies and inaccuracies in many of the members of this law, and I believe that everything that can be specified by law should be specified, and despite the fact that such a provision indicates what it is, I think that it is better and more meaningful to specify it. For example, we have a situation where a parent who lost custody of a child lives in a garage or a smaller one-bedroom apartment, that, for example, supports sick parents or, in the meantime, acquired a new family, concluded a new marriage, got children out of it; the question arises whether there is at all a possibility that a quality life, with members of a new family, and with a child and a wife from a previous marriage, is that we are not talking about relations between members of the previous and current family of such a man. So this amendment of mine is purely technical. He wouldn't change anything, he'd just specify the provisions of this article.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12622	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 197 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12623	National MP Paja Momcilov intervened in two places in Article 197 and the proposal's explanation refers only to point 4 of Article 2. What MP Momchilov suggested in point 2 of point 2 of paragraph 2 was not commented by the promoter at all. What's been suggested here? To add that under domestic violence, other than applying or attempting to inflict physical injury, causing fear of murder or inflicting physical injury, they are also considered emotional injuries. This may not seem so convincing to someone, but experience suggests that emotional, mental, psychological injuries are of great importance, especially if they happen continuously over a long period of time, or if they accumulate. Very often, the application of these emotional injuries by one partner as a reaction can cause what is stated in the proposal, or the application of a physical injury. If the emotional injury is not listed as a possible injury, then often the vindictee of an inadequate reaction will be found outside the reach of the sanctions of this member. As for point 4 – the reference to sexual intercourse or sexual intercourse with a person who has not turned 14 or an powerless person, it seems to us that 14 years is too low. We proposed 18 years. We could understand in some ways that the proposer has determined 16 years, the limit of an elderly minor, and this 14-year-old we really don't understand, especially if we see who counts for all family members in terms of attitude 1 of this law – not only are they blood relatives, but also Tabian relatives, relatives who are related to foster care or any person living in a joint household. Since the promoter has worked hard to highlight this protection against domestic violence in this law, it is incomprehensible why he did not accept these additions to Article 197. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12624	Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12625	Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the amendments to this article and to this chapter at all -- protection against domestic violence -- that's the new institute provided for by this law and that didn't exist in an earlier law. The Institute itself is not controversial, it should exist and have its place in the law. What the Serbian Radical Party wanted to do with the amendment is fix this institute. Paragraph 2 sets out cases that will be considered domestic violence. In point 1, point 2, the words ‘application or attempt to cause physical injury’ are given. Body injuries can be easy and severe. Severe physical injuries are crimes prosecuted on official duty and represent the traits of crime. Mild physical injuries are prosecuted on private criminal charges and constitute a criminal offence. In any case, it would be prosecuted by the DA's office... Point 2 provides – causing fear by the threat of murder or harming a family member or close to him. Look, the threat of murder is also a crime, and it's a physical injury, and that's what I've already explained under point 1. Under point 3 – coercion of sexual relations – can also be a criminal act of rape. Under point 4 – a reference to sexual intercourse or sexual intercourse with a person who has not turned 14 or an powerless person. We intervened with the amendment, and we wanted to raise that age line and protect faces that are more than 14 years old and younger than 18 years old. I don't know why the government refused to accept this amendment. Point 5 is to limit freedom of movement or communication with a third party. It could already be a criminal offense against the rightful deprivement of a person's freedom. Under point 6 - insult, as well as any other insolent, insolent and malicious behavior. This falls within the scope of criminal law. So, of all six points, it's a combination of the markings of a crime or of a crime. What the Serbian Radical Party wanted to fix with this amendment, it is to bring down the level of responsibility of those who commit domestic violence. So domestic violence is also considered to represent some kind of psychological harassment of any family member. We should not wait for someone to be threatened with murder or cause serious or easy physical injury, and then the court will assess that there has been domestic violence and, under Article 198, takes some of the measures provided for in the bill. A lower level of pressure on certain family members should be considered domestic violence. You don't have to wait for him to commit a crime or a crime, so that the court can then give some of the protection against domestic violence. And in response to the Government's response to this amendment, there was some insinuate explanation, completely unrelated to our amendment, given an answer in style – how many hours there are, it snows out. I see no reason why the Government would not accept the amendment, because this amendment extends the possibility of applying this new institute as provided for in the bill. We believe the amendment of the SRS should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12626	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 197 of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12627	Article 197. The bill refers to domestic violence and defines what domestic violence is. I was talking about that I didn't think it was meant to give such a fragmented definition and to specify the points, but to give a general definition in order to make it easier to conduct the proceedings. What's there is, in Section 2, there are taxis that represent, in particular, domestic violence, so some that are isolated and highlighted. There are six points and I have nothing against them, but there is one that I have proposed by amendment, which is point 7 – other forms of physical, psychological, sexual and economic harassment and endangerment. The bill promoter said that this amendment, which is expressed in point 7, is contained in Article 197 paragraph 2, and I say that in six previous points there is nothing that represents economic harassment and endangerment, and these other forms of physical, psychological and sexual violence are given in a different context. In order to protect against domestic violence on the basis of the law, as has been given six previous points, I believe it is necessary to add this seventh point and that this article is then completed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12628	On the occasion of the same amendment, MP Milan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12629	Dear Mr President, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, I think you should have accepted this amendment and that the explanation you gave in this report – that it cannot be accepted because the content of the proposed amendment is covered by Article 197(2) – does not really stand. Practically, I think the definition itself -- "another form of physical, psychological, sexual and economic harassment and endangerment" could have stood in the bill of law, or you could have accepted the terms of this amendment, because the previous six points still do not cover everything. Although it is commendable and should be taxed, such a numbering principle can be bad because it might promote some things that aren't contained here and are happening in real life. That's why I don't think there was any harm in accepting the 7th point of my colleague Leila Ruzdic. It's simple, even if something is repeating itself, one part must be repeating itself, because colleague Ruzdic cited physical, mental, sexual and economic harassment, but one part certainly doesn't repeat itself, and I don't think it would hurt if you took point 7. A more significant intervention would not occur, and only a good one could be brought into practice tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12630	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruždic-Trifunović to Article 198. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12631	Article 198 refers to measures to protect against domestic violence, and paragraph 1 states that one or more measures of protection against domestic violence can be determined, and paragraph 2 states what protection measures are against domestic violence. The bill promoter gives us five measures of protection against domestic violence, and I also have no objections to them. However, I believe that it is totally not allowed to abandon mandatory treatment of alcoholism and other addiction diseases as a measure of protection, as well as mandatory psychological counselling or treatment. We know what alcoholism and addiction diseases in the family mean, how they change people's minds, what are the consequences of such a change in consciousness. If protective measures were to be laid down in the litigation procedure, I think this situation would be far more improved than just by the measures provided for here. Experience shows us that violent individuals are not mentally ill, but persons with psychopathic disorders, and such personalities can be provided with very good protection if you refer them to psychological counselling or treatment. It's not just that you're going to protect the victim from the bully, which is a priority when it comes to the treatment of this member, but it's about the public interest that this man will eventually get better, no matter how far he's away from the victim, as the victim is saved from his violent behavior, that one day he can still go back to normal life and resolutely.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12632	The word is made by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12633	Mr. Minister, I would ask you anyway to answer (of course, if it's not a problem, but since you've been kind so far, I hope it won't be controversial) why don't you accept this amendment. So, you certainly agree, and most in this room, that disease addiction, alcoholism or some mental disorders are actually very often caused by violence, especially domestic violence. It is therefore perfectly logical and normal, if we are able to eliminate such causes in a procedure, in order to resuscitate this person in a way that he no longer commits domestic violence. Your explanation in this report is that the amendment cannot be accepted because these measures are being expressed in criminal and criminal proceedings with us. Why don't we say it in litigation? The litigation process will now express something that is practically a kind of limiting freedom of movement. We have measures here, he says, a ban on access to space around the place of residence, etc. So, in the litigation process, such significant measures will already be expressed. This is about limiting freedom of movement. On the other hand, if a judge working in a misdemeanor can express this kind of measure, why can't a judge litigate. It is certain that the conditions for a judge to become a litigator are far more serious and stricter than conditions for someone to become a judge of offense, since it is essentially not a judicial authority. I don't think your argument in this sense stands. You have introduced a series of very advanced solutions with this law. We simply change this matter in a way and therefore the law is commendable. Why don't we change this too? Why don't we say that in this procedure the judge can litigate such a measure of mandatory treatment against alcoholism and other addiction diseases, psychological counselling and treatment. So, as it has been introduced that the litigation court can impose all five measures, and what the distinguished colleague Ruzdic said – which are really commendable, why don't we add these two measures that really hit the center of the target to eliminate exactly what was causing domestic violence. So if a judge who judges in an organ of offense, who is not actually a judge, can express such a measure, why wouldn't someone who really was a judge be able to say such a thing? And the other thing, if we introduce a new institute here, if we give it the authority to limit freedom of movement to a person, in this way one negative enume, by determining which space he cannot approach, why don't we give him that authority to set as a judge a mandatory measure of treatment for alcoholics? I'd appreciate it if you'd be so kind as to comment on this amendment of ours.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12634	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) The word has Minister Lalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12635	I'm going to answer this question briefly. In the first version of the bill we had proposed measures. However, by the Republic Secretariat of Law, it is said that we cannot bring such measures here because it can only be done in criminal and criminal proceedings. We, of course, had to consult and respect the views of the Republic Secretariat for legislation when making the law. That's the only real reason. Otherwise, we had it in our first version. By the time I got out, I'd still be commenting on a few things that have been so far. There's been a lot of debate here about the right to adopt our children by strangers. That was quite present. I want to say a few things about it. First, the adoption of our children by foreign citizens is something that has existed since 1980. It is simply unusual to have this particular problem in 2005. The experience so far, when it comes to the adoption of our children by foreign citizens, was not a problem during the quarter century, and now it becomes a problem. This year, about three to five children are adopted by foreign citizens and most of them are children who are distracted by psychophysical development. I think that's the kind of remark that's completely deplaced, because we have something that's been working for the fourth century. Regardless of the conventions and everything else we talked about, I'm talking about the essence of things and the essence of relationships. So such a single remark is completely inappropriate and unfounded when it comes to it. When it comes to forcing relatives to accept custody, we in law have a solution to which they will be called first to be guardians. But not only has that not only produced results in the previous period, but it has something far more serious than that, which is that it is a completely different quality of relationships when you force someone to be a guardian of a child by law. I think it's perfectly clear to everyone what possible devastating consequences are for that child if you force someone to be a guardian, and I have repeatedly emphasized that this law in the good part should be observed primarily from the point of view of the child's interests. In that sense, forcing this is completely contrary to any interest of the child. Another question was present here, and that's about custody funds. An amendment has been put in place whether and how funds can be made available for the guardian. So we here make it quite clear, in a few points, that are all possible to provide funds for custody, and we say – social protection funds. In fact, it's about social work centers that we give resources to, so they give funds to the guardians. So there's one quite solid connection, a guarantee, in fact, if there's no funding from other sources, then that's what the state is providing, and we're doing it. In that sense, this amendment or this objection is, in our opinion, inadmissible. One last thing: here, several times in this legal standard, "obvious injustice" (so proposals were made that are also a kind of legal standard) asked the question of how we leave it indefinitely, in general, and who will decide. So, I don't think it can be treated in any way that it's more precise what's written in several amendments – about, if that person were in the problem of material nature if it were to give that support, which is also a legal standard. In that sense, the story is completely unnecessary, superfluous. What is important is to say for this speaker, to ask who will determine what "obvious injustice" is, once again, I would appeal, in general, when amendments are made, to look at the law in general. I refer to Articles 201, 202 and 203, where it is perfectly precise that the court is doing so in a litigation procedure, read it as it does. So, all these questions are brought before the court in a litigation procedure, according to the procedure laid down in this law, and what is not in this law, is applied accordingly. It's simple, the answer to one question that's inappropriate, and it wouldn't have been asked if the law had been read in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12636	Mr. Markovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12637	You know that our Legislative Committee has assessed that the amendment is legally possible. The Legislative Committee of the Assembly takes care of the legality and constitutionality of what is proposed. At the very least, the Secretariat for Law in the Government of the Republic of Serbia is not authorized to interpret the law, nor does he take care of the constitutionality and legality of what goes before the Assembly or what the Assembly adopts. My proposal, i.e. my request – as you have given amendments to Article 5 a little thought, I would ask that by the end of this debate, and it will obviously continue, you consult once more, because I understand that you agree with the amendment and that there is only that legal question left. My suggestion is to accept that risk and see if anyone will even run a constitutionality assessment, if anyone will ever say that it is not in accordance with the Constitution and the law, and I guarantee you, in accordance with my knowledge that is not great, but it is enough to try to interpret this, that if you accept it, you will certainly not make a mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12638	Don't speak ill of the MP. Please, with a lot of respect for all the MPs, including Mr. Markovic. Here you go, Mrs. Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12639	The second part of my replica was what Mr. Markovic said. I wanted to tell you earlier that this isn't just a matter of criminal and criminal proceedings. When you look at the parallel right, these solutions exist in every law in our environment and in Europe. There are no laws without forced treatment from alcoholism and drugs and laws that do not foresee treatment in psychologists.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12640	The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic to Article 203. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12641	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have tabled an amendment to Article 203(4). I propose that at the end of the text, the point be replaced by a comma and add the words "in 90 days from the day of publication of the law in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". This means that enough time should be left for the minister to regulate the way knowledge is acquired from this area relating to the rights of the child by means of a sublegal act. Without a certain period of time, it would be wrong to pass the law and to publish it in the Official Messenger and within eight days to apply the law without certain preparations and to prepare organs and natural persons, as well as the Ministry, custody and court bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, when it comes to Article 203, I will also refer to Section 2, where judges and members are predicted to be persons who have acquired special knowledge in the area of child rights. Now the question is whether we have judges who have been poisoned and who are able to take over the role of making a decision immediately in this area. On the other hand, paragraph 3 also states that the jurors of Article 1 are selected from the ranks of professionals who have experience in working with children and young people. Maybe it should have been said more correctly and more precisely, because here you can't see (he who applies this law and decides who will be the juror) that this juror should have, whether it's a teacher, teacher, teacher, social worker, lawyer, etc. So, in my opinion, in a specific case, each article should specify the possibility of law enforcement. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as I was concerned, I missed a moment ago, there was a misunderstanding, because I reported in relation to Article 198 when it came to protecting against domestic violence. In Article 198, paragraph 3 of the bill's proposal provides for a ban on approaching a family member at a certain distance. I'd like anyone in practice to be more precise and clearer in determining what distance that is. It's not a M-48 rifle whose range is 1,000 meters. Something different had to be arranged and designed here. What happens if the court decides that they can't get within a mile of each other, go out on the street and meet on the sidewalk? What are we gonna do in those cases? There's a lot of misunderstandings, no hard feelings. There are a lot of generalizations, but it's interesting that this number of members of the proposed law only go to five-six pages. Since a number of newspapers are being introduced, as can be seen, the legislator is obliged to make every newspaper and every member, as the promoters usually do, explain and enable MPs to understand the proposal more clearly. On the other hand, if the Proposer calls for compliance with European standards, it was up to him to tell us on the basis of which law, which states, that at least a little closer to knowing whether this applies to Germany, France, Switzerland, Italy, Russia, England, America, etc. So we don't have that data, and we've had opportunities to pass some other laws that we were made up of declarations and resolutions, and in fact there was no talking about it, because they don't exist, and our right is not harmonised. That's why the promoter was obliged to help the MPs, to meet the MPs, when he passed this very important law on family relations, on all of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12642	The word has been given by the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet, here you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12643	Minister Lalovic, I really don't know how many times I have to from this pay phone to repeat that you are obliged to address the MPs with respect, even if you speak as a fellow MP. And I don't know how many times I have to tell you that your objection to the MPs to read the laws you're proposing here is not relevant to the MPs of the SRS. I told you the other day, and now I repeat to you, we also read what is written in the law, we also read what you saw between the ranks, but you do not read. You present to us the prescribed laws here. You know, if you were someone who worked on this law, maybe I'd appreciate your opinion. So, this is about the court's procedure regarding family relations, specifically in Article 203, it's about the composition of a council, and you say, "The programme and the way in which the special knowledge is acquired from Section 2 of this article is agreedly prescribed by the minister in charge of family protection and by the minister in charge of justice. "When it will be, we don't know. "The jackna hasn't died yet, and when we don't know." You, in your explanation, are saying that you cannot accept the amendment because it is the application of the law by the provision of Article 363. The proposal, postponed until 1 July 2005, until when all the sublegal acts necessary for the implementation of this law will be adopted. The team before I see no reason why you do not want this Article 203, in paragraph 4, to specify that the programme and the way in which the special knowledge is acquired from Article 2 of this Article will be arranged within 90 days. It's certainly an appropriate deadline for you and the Minister of Justice, so I don't see what you're afraid of, except for the fact that we've talked about this many times today, that you're making a law that's inadmissible again, or that without these sublaws, it'll be inadmissible. It's a special story that you predict that these family-related procedures are being resolved again in some special courts, yet you'll be recruiting some special judges for this kind of work. It's just unnecessary. If we have a good law, if we have good judges, every judge is able to apply every law. Every judge is capable of interpreting every law. Of course, I think of the honorable and professional judges, still convinced that in Serbia more than those who are likely to be turned into these special judges, because so did the previous government – those most problematic judges translated into some special status. We remember all of us here when we talked about the Law of Prosecution that then this law here was presented as an epochal achievement, as a comprehensive law. The Minister of Justice then told us, as well as the colleagues who then supported this law on litigation, how we finally have in this law everything that was provided for any lawsuit, everything is regulated by this law and we will no longer have hundreds of sides regulated that matter. Here's how much time after that, and yet the Law of Prosecution hasn't even come into effect, and here's the whole section of the law, the family code, as you call it, and I'm still saying that it would be more appropriate to call it a family law, you predict a whole section that deals with litigation. Again, the discrepancy between the government members, again the "freeshooters" in the government, the confusion of the public, as, behold, God, proposes something epochal, from this law, everything moves better in this area and beyond. We've had this opportunity many times to listen, and today, especially these days, when it comes to this law. I repeat once again, since I am specifically talking about Article 203, there is no legitimate or legal reason not to accept the obligation that the programme and the way in which the judge's special knowledge related to the court's proceedings is obtained in family relations should be regulated within 90 days. I apologize for the extended time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12644	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 229 of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruždic-Trifunović. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from Parliamentarian Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. Indeed, I apologize, a People's Messenger.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12645	This would have been you, too, son Brutus, but it wasn't. No, no, he got away well. I wrote an amendment to Article 229, which contains a process of intervention. The law says: "The procedure for intermediation (hereinafter referred to as intermediation) includes the procedure for trying to stay calm (hereinafter referred to as calming) and the procedure for trying to end the dispute in agreement (hereinafter referred to as: settlement). "You will also see following the following amendments, I believe that the settlement procedure should be completely kicked out of the law, and therefore I propose, by my amendment, that Article 229 reads: "The intervention procedure covers the procedure for trying to end the dispute in agreement." When I talk about calming down, then I'll tell you why I consider this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12646	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 230 of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruždic-Trifunović. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here, the word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12647	As I was saying, in Article 229, I would have left a settlement and I think that institute is very good. It's a newspaper in this law, and I'd leave it because it's a good solution. And Article 230 provides for when mediation is not carried out: 1. if one of the spouses does not agree to intervene; 2. if one of the spouses is incapacitated; 3. if one of the spouses is unknown; 4. if one or both spouses live abroad. My amendment suggests adding point 5 after point 4, which says that the mediation procedure is not being carried out "if an action has been filed to determine the protection measure against domestic violence, as well as to extend the protection measure against domestic violence against spouses or relatives". I think this request is entirely logical because in the procedures where the protection measure is proposed, it is completely out of the mind to conduct any intervention. I think that point should be first, not fifth, but I put it in this place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12648	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović proposed to delete the title "Peace" and members 233 to 239. It's a bill of law. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? He has the word National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12649	My amendment to the entire "Peace" chapter refers to all members who are in that chapter, so I ask that seven members be deleted. I believe that calming is a procedure that is too far-fetched under this law, because many of the planned actions end in a job that predicts peace. I think the pacifying procedure is very delaying the proceedings. We've been scheduled for two months here, so if it's not after two, then another month, then it's only then that it's back in court. If we have made specialised courts, if we have a contractual divorce, if we have a contract or a mediation after a divorce ruling, which solves these relations with each other, I think it is absolutely unnecessary to stay with the institution of the settlement, because, otherwise, it has shown itself in practice over the past 25 years as an inefficient procedure that slows the divorce process.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12650	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 279 of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruždić-Trifunović. Since the amendment was adopted by the Government and the Committee on Health and Family, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic to Article 284. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12651	I thank the legislator for accepting the amendment to Article 279, because I think he was very important for the conduct of the divorce procedure and I am very pleased that he was accepted. But what I can do is, I have an amendment to initiate the procedure, to Article 284. By amendment to Article 284(2), I propose adding the words "other family member" behind the words "legal representative". I'll read you article 2 of Article 284 in order to make it clear what I'm proposing. Paragraph 2 of Article 284 states: "The application for determining the protection measure against domestic violence, as well as the extension of the protection measure against domestic violence, can be filed: a member of the family under which the violence was committed, his legal representative, the public prosecutor and the custody authority." I felt that after that "his legal representative" should be added "and other family members", for the reason I imagine a situation where it is necessary for a brother or sister, if one of the family members is at risk, to file a lawsuit. The reason is that these are life situations, which often happens in practice and what each of these members, if they are within the circle of family members, can also be a bully.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12652	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 288 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica. Since the amendment was adopted by the Government and the Committee on Health and Family, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 292 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Since the amendment was adopted by the Government and the Committee on Health and Family, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 297th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Since the amendment was adopted by the Government and the Committee on Health and Family, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meko Omerovic. Since the amendment was adopted by the Government and the Committee on Health and Family, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted to Article 312 by MP Milet Poscurica. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12653	Ladies and gentlemen, of course, following our amendment to Article 103, the amendment to Article 312 follows now. According to our amendment to Article 103, we are now and here erasing Article 2, which would make it a foreign citizen, whether an individual or a couple, which is not defined again in Articles 101 and 102, does not initiate the adoption process, to reduce the suffering, not to do so, to spare the minister that he does not have to write a program in English, Arabic, French and who knows what all languages, the adoption program, to reduce the suffering and custody body to check that program, to simply take down the possible trade mortgage and all the other reasons we are instructed to say that foreign citizens would not be desirable traders. We've sold a lot in Serbia, we've brought a lot of things under question; there's a lot we've agreed to, so we don't have to alienate our children. Accordingly, I think you should consider it, but the condition is that you accept the amendment to Article 103, and therefore to Article 31.2, we will make one wise decision and save our children for adoption on our grounds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12654	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12655	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the empty stories the minister tells us, explaining why it is necessary for foreigners to adopt children born of Serbian citizens in Serbia's territory, Serbian citizens, I don't think they drink water. Each country's primary goal is to keep every citizen in its territory. I believe that in this article of the law, as well as in previous members who have handled this matter, this attitude should be deleted and that foreigners should not be allowed to adopt children from Serbia, for the simple reason why it opens up many opportunities, from child trafficking to human organs trafficking. I think this amendment and Article 2 should be adopted in this article.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12656	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 317 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12657	With this amendment, we have tried to make the adoption of children's institutions more efficient, especially as we know that adoption of children is a problem characterized by inorganization, inefficientness, corruption, and very often a hidden purchase of children. Why is the current system ineffective? This is because they are sovereign "owners" of children who are the authorities of custody, i.e. centres for social work by the place of the famous parent child. On the other hand, a married couple who wants to adopt a child has no information in one place, data on which Serbia's social work centres have a suitable child to adopt. These children are normally housed in nursing homes without parental ageing, but they cannot possibly adopt a home and ask if there are children suitable for them. That kind of information is not necessarily mandatory, it's not allowed to give, by law. Then what's going on? Potential adoptors are asking questions; they usually ask questions at their social work centre, which can and does not have to have data that social work centres in Serbia have children to adopt. They wander from city to city, ask questions, try to contact the director of the social work center, who can give them information, don't have to give them information, which they can like or don't like, and that's why we have this situation that children needlessly chat in homes. The first condition for this area to be arranged is to make central records of all children who are for adoption, as well as central records of all potential adoptors. This law provides for the introduction of a single personal register of adoption. However, the register or the central record has been in place for several years in the competent ministry, not because of the legal provision, but because of the ministry's instructions. But it's the first step, it hasn't moved on. Now social work centres will have central records, but no other provision of the law forces them to establish adoptions in as short a time as possible and to find as suitable adoptors as possible. So we've only allowed them to have potential adoptor records on their computer. We have suggested that the ministry responsible for family protection, when the request of potential adopters arrives and children eligible for adoption are recorded, send data to the competent social work centre on potential adopters (we did not specify which number, it does not have to be one married couple, it can be three, five, ten), and that the social work centre must then, as soon as possible, reach a solution to the adoption. If it does not reach a solution within the framework of the proposed adoptors, then adoptors have the opportunity to appeal to the ministry as a second-degree body, which through expert supervision will solve a common problem with the social work centre. Ideally, there would be one central state authority, a body, an institution that would make its own solution. It's supposed to be the Ministry. However, due to the Law on Administrative Procedure, the ministry is a second-degree body and it really cannot make decisions in the first degree and therefore we have made some compromise solution – that the Centre for Social Work brings a solution, but under the direct supervision of the ministry. The ministry didn't accept that, with an explanation that this amendment would be regulated by sublaws, but we think it's much better, more effective to regulate it by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12658	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic to Article 318. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12659	This amendment by Parliamentarian Krasic does not take into account the possibility of foreign adoption. I would no longer like to repeat what we have widely explained why we are against foreign adoption, I would just take the opportunity to replicate a minister who practically challenged our right to oppose foreign adoption, because that right was not ruled out by old law. So you SRS MPs have no right to rebel over the existence of foreign adoption, because it already existed in the old law. That's absolutely no argument. If this family law had changed before, we would have come up with that proposal sooner. This law was passed in 1980, when the SRS didn't even exist. It is now on the agenda to pass family law and this is our chance to make our stand against foreign adoption.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12660	Anybody else answer for a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12661	Minister Lalovic, you see how we Serbian radicals read very carefully the proposed text of family law; we have not missed a single member in which you have provided for the possibility of adopting children by foreign citizens without putting an amendment on you and suggesting you delete it. In article 318, you're talking about adaptation. You say, "The guardianship organization chosen by future adoptors is obliged to direct their child for mutual adjustment, unless the adoptor is a foreign citizen. "First, you didn't say what if the adoptor is a foreign citizen, if you are predicting him, in which way the child will adapt, unless our suspicion is justified, which is why we think this should be deleted here – if the adoptor is not a foreign citizen, because we don't think that the adoptor of our children can be a foreign citizen. I talked about it this morning, you weren't there, but now let me tell you a few key arguments. They have also been presented in the light of this amendment and other amendments. We told you that our amendment is accompanied by demographic reasons, then professional reasons, the inability of the custody authority to have insight into how to perform a parenting role by a person living in another country. It is in this Article 318, paragraph 1, that we prove absolutely right because of these amendments that we have made and which are forbidden by a foreign citizen to adopt our children. I don't know if you saw them waiting for you this morning, Minister Lalovic, those unfortunate parents (and I talked about it this morning) who have been trying to prove that their children were stolen after childbirth. Unfortunately, new parents appear every day with new data, and none of the authorities are doing anything to help these people. They asked this government, and that's what they said in their protest today, that at least in this law it's not limited by the deadline for proof of motherhood. We don't see what the problem was, isn't that how these people could be helped and said -- here, the government has a good will, we can't do anything concrete to you, but we won't limit that deadline, prove motherhood, paternity until you prove it. No, this government obviously doesn't want to face it. This is more evidence that we have the right to suspect that enabling custody, i.e. adoption of children by foreign citizens, will lead to abuse; good, unfortunately, business and Serbian children who are to be adopted will appear to be kept for foreigners who will pay well. It will again be a new form of organized crime, unfortunately, in the worst possible way, through the most sensitive part of this nation and this people. That's why it's incomprehensible to me, and to all of us in the SRS, why you're deaf to this kind of appeal. What does the government get, what does the state get if they don't accept our amendment and allow foreigners to adopt our children? We are telling you that if you accept the amendment we get a lot, we get in Serbia all those children who would eventually go abroad and close the possibility of abuse; we help these people who are already trying to reach their children, at least in such a way as not to create and confirm their suspicions that they have for years and amounts to the public of Serbia. You, dear colleagues and you government gentlemen, unfortunately, have no understanding of the real problems in Serbia, just drill and boast about how you pass some revolutionary and epochal laws. Neither this law nor is it revolutionary, nor is it epochal. Almost all of what is provided for in this law is already foreseen by the existing law, perhaps in some other way. I claim that we Serbian radicals want and we want to take care of both children and women who suffer violence, but that we want it in a different way, and that we want to and want to protect the traditional Serbian family, and believe me, none in Serbia will be worse than that. On the contrary, a healthy family also means healthy society.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12662	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12663	I would not like to be suspicious, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in a dozen members, in half-status, in a half-point, in a half-a-line, in a quarter of an indent, at the end of a term, this is what happens – the adoptor of a foreign citizen. The minister said just a moment – adopted by foreign adoptors five, six children a year, and mostly children distracted by development. That's not true, Minister. No foreigner will be distracted by children, so many children's homes distracted by development in Serbia; the foreigner wants healthy Serbian children, and you must not be allowed to allow them to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12664	Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic to Article 357. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12665	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are slowly approaching the end of the discussion of the family law. It seems to me that this argument that the government has given, headed by Minister Lalovic, to the 357th most senseless of all, although there have really been a lot of amendments, has been a lot of pointless arguments, but this is something that will certainly enter the annals of the Assembly. The amendment to Article 357 provides for the application of this law to be changed in relation to what the Government has proposed and what would be retroactive in general, as it is provided for that law to be applied and to the relations that arise before the adoption of this law. In an explanation that says the amendment is not accepted, the government says it cannot be accepted for the purpose of Article 357 to apply the provisions of the law to all family relations that exist at the time of the application of the law, no matter when they are created. That's true, that's what it says, but that's exactly what we wanted to change. That's exactly what retroactiveness is all about. Article 357 establishes retroactivity as a rule, and retroactivity must not be a rule, but must be an exception. Also, the government is further calling for members of the 358 and 359 laws, but these members of the law are not in fact being further implemented, but only exceptions are being established; e.g. Article 359 states which legislation will apply to marriages concluded before 9 May 1946. That was practically 60 years ago. Such marriages in Serbia today are probably so much that one hand can be counted on and that is certainly something that does not foresee the rule, but an exception. If this is not accepted, we don't mind that all the relations that will be formed in the future are regulated by this law, which is what's normal. Because if you wanted to do otherwise, you had to comply with the Constitution, which, of course, also prohibits retroactiveness, to determine specific conditions and special confirmation and everything that goes according to the law, so that it can be declared in one special procedure and this assembly, and then we say that this law is retroactive and so it can be everything else. This certainly isn't the right way, but since the rest of the law has a lot that's wrong, and what's going to be retroactive, I don't think it's too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12666	The word has a minister, Mr. Slobodan Lalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12667	Just two sentences, we've been talking for a long time, and I don't want to bother the meeting. Let me just say, it seems to me that the debate has shown that this proposal for family law is a modern European law that introduces new standards into Serbia. Also, I think it's quite clear that there's a different view. I think it's clear that it's a minority position and that's good. This will prove to be a vote on this bill. I want to say that Serbia has always had this problem of modernization whenever it deals with it. I would remind myself that in time, more than a hundred years ago, when it was decided to introduce a single-vote railway in Serbia was adopted in that assembly to introduce railways in Serbia, and nearly half of it was against railways, it said -- pollution, etc. So it's a chronic process of modernising Serbia, always with resistance, but fortunately, always with most who are for modern and European Serbia. I call on all MPs who are for Serbia in Europe to support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12668	Replication to what? I'm sorry, this was the final word. Please, I just don't understand what the replica is.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12669	This is a replica of the minister's clear illusion that Serbia is divided into two options, modern and anachron; as Serbs reportedly feared the introduction of the railway into Serbia, the SRS is now fighting to modernise family relations. That's really a lot of nonsense. This means that the minister has absolutely not understood the meaning of our objections to the essence and to the specific members of this law. We absolutely supported everything that was good, we wanted the law to be better, better. It is not enough that the promoter intends to achieve something, but must find the right and effective means to implement it. Time will show that this law is also one of the laws behind which only good intentions and political marketing stand. Most of these new members will absolutely not produce any legal fact and this will show the future, and so many dozens of laws have been passed, whose effect is absolutely not felt in Serbia's political, social and economic life.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12670	Thank you, but I'm really still at it... I'm sorry, no party was mentioned. I could never recognize him thinking about your party if it's the other way around. As for the illusion, I'm sorry, it's the same when we talk about the English Parliament that had the same problem when the railway was introduced. So it's just an illusion. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12671	It's article 100. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's interesting that the minister said what he had and ran faster or better out, it's his custom. I just have to tell you, seeing as there's nothing else that certain representatives of the government can do but say that they're the bearers of European ideas, that they're magnificent and modern laws, only someone constantly bothers them, someone's stopping them from something, so the minister said here one example. My time started from two minutes to 20 seconds, you didn't pay me back, and you spoke before me. So he said there was a problem with the railway. I don't know about that, I'm sure there was a problem with the railway, but it's gonna be easy for someone to lift the railroad, JAT and the airport, and everything that comes through Serbia, nobody even thought about it or knew it. As that goes with you and your government, that's something that's totally amazing. I'd like to ask the minister, the genius who made a statement to the media and said that everyone's salary should be increased, because there are professional people, there are experts, whether he's the expert and what he's an expert for. Who are these experts? Is it he who abolished JAT or the one who destroys the airport? Is he the one who bought 40,000 ficuses, 650 dinars of spoons, or do I not know what? No, that's what they used to be. What does that have to do with the SRS? The fact that we're voting against your laws, the fact that we're giving you something, you're going to say, you're retrograde, it's modern. What makes him so modern? What he's done modern, except today you've come up with a great genius to keep the wages the way they are. That's genius. There's nothing. I have to ask if every minister who comes here will take for his enemy, opponent or I don't know what the SRS finds, not his own incompetence. Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia live badly not because of the SRS, we are in opposition, but because of you who are in power, because of you who decide their fate, who every day tell us that they are making major progress towards European integration. I don't know where they're going and which integrations, but I do know that people don't have the bread to eat, that they're getting harder and harder to live, that they barely patch up the end of the end, and be sure that in the next election you'll see how much they respect you and I don't know any transatlantic or any kind of integration. You'll see how the people only want to live from their work, to live normally, to have fair authority, to have normal people, who don't want such demagogue flossules to attack their political opponents.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12672	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12673	If you do, then let him stay here, and let him hear what someone has to say to him, and let him not as an aunt, and let him escape a little bit. He smudges somewhere, if he's got better things to do at this hour; what, he doesn't have a meeting scheduled at 23.15?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12674	Time, and you're also covered by article 100, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12675	Our time, Mr. President, is just coming, which is what I want for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12676	Thank you for your good wishes. Time's up on the Rules of Procedure. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: – A PROPOSAL OF THE PUBLIC AGENCY LAW You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill: Verica Radeta, Ljiljana Nestorović, Meho Omerović, Milan Markovic and Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in the principle of parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour 38 minutes 24 seconds, the Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour three minutes 36 seconds, the Democratic Party - Boris Tadic – 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus – 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Serbian Renewal Movement - New Serbia – 26 minutes 24 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes 24 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group of five minutes, according to Article 89. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the representatives for this point are in front of the SPO-NS Group Miodrag Stamenkovic, and in front of the SPS Zoran Angelkovic. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the representative of the proposing Dr Zoran Loncar, Minister of State and Local Self-Government, want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12677	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respecting the fact that you have today made a decision that tonight is about to end the debate on this item of the agenda I will join with my shortest possible exhibition in this opening part. Of course, I remain prepared to answer any questions you may be interested in during tonight's debate. The law on public agencies, which is in front of you tonight, is a continuation of the process of law enforcement of agencies that exist in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and I would also add an attempt to demystify everything the agencies have done, which was presented to citizens in previous years. Now we will have the opportunity to get one law that will represent a framework for future work of all the agencies that exist and all that will be educated in the future. There are various forms of agencies in our legal system. They started starting a few years ago. Among them are the most famous: Privatisation Agency, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Development Agency, Tobacco Agency, Republic Spatial Planning Agency. To mention some of the agencies that you adopted in this assembly are: Agency for Business Registers, Agency for Licensing Bank Managers, Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, Agency for Peaceful Dispute Resolution, etc. Therefore, the indication of all these laws which have been educated by these agencies points to the fact that in our legal system there is a absence of system law which would represent a single legal framework for the functioning of all the agencies that exist and will exist in the future. Therefore, the law on public agencies is a system law governing agencies as a new status form that exists in our legal system, as a public authority holder. This provides for rules for the work of agencies. The public agency itself is designated as an organisation, with the position of a legal person, who performs development, professional or regulatory tasks which are of general interest. I'll just briefly mention some of the most important solutions. As for the bodies of the public agency provided for by this law, these are the board of directors and directors of the public agency, which I think deserves attention from the founder, and under this law they can be the Republic, the province and the unit of local self-government, appointed by the board of directors, but this time solely on the basis of the competition, and on the basis of professional criteria that will be laid down for each specific holder of the function, a special law which educates each of these agencies, and what is foreseen by this law for a period of five years. Also, all these persons appointed by the founders, and the board and director, have the status of officials, within the meaning of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. They, as well as all of us who bear functions in the National Assembly, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will be subject to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. I think it deserves attention that no one who is a MP or official in the Government of the Republic of Serbia will be able to take a seat on the board of directors or be the director of any agency in the Republic of Serbia. The jobs carried out by these agencies, as soon as possible, can be settled into three groups. These are: development jobs (for them will be educated development agencies), professional-analytical jobs (experienced agencies will be educated), regulation of legal relations, i.e. regulatory affairs (in order to carry out these tasks will be educated so-called ‘the European Commission’). regulatory agencies). Of course, the law also provides for provisions on the protection of general interest in the work of public agencies, which so far did not exist, in the light of the right of the founders to appoint board members, as well as to appoint directors and, of course, to give consent to the most important acts adopted by public agencies. Finally, as far as funding from public agencies is concerned, different funding opportunities are envisaged, starting from the budget, up to the price charged for services to be provided to citizens by these agencies. As for the price of services, it should also be stressed that the law provides for only economic, not so-called. Market price. The difference is that the economic price covers the price that corresponds to the actual costs the agency has for services. As regards the use of surplus revenue over the expenditures incurred by these agencies in the future, the law explicitly predicted that it could only be about achieving the purpose in three areas, which is: for the development of public agency jobs, for the material stimulation of agency employees and that the surplus could be paid into the budget of the founders of the public agency. I thank you for your attention, and I will stay with you for the rest of the debate, to answer the questions you are interested in.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12678	Do the officials of the committees want a word? Justice and Administration Committee - Jovan Palalic, chairman of the Committee? Legislative Committee - Milos Aligrudic, chairman of the Committee? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The People's MP, Alexander Wuccic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12679	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have listened carefully to the minister and have heard from the minister a few sentences that stand in several first members of the law and in several first lines of the reasoning of the law. So one three times in different ways he's told us again about developmental affairs, professional and regulatory functions to be performed by the agencies. That's very nice, Mr. Minister, you've also got a well-deserved round of applause. I'm not sure everyone listened very carefully to what you said. What I have to say is, it's a principled discrepancy between Serbian radicals and the creation of new agencies. I will now show you on one case why this is not good and how only state money is being spent, the money is being spent by the citizens of Serbia. Namely, you have listed several key agencies here: the tobacco agency, the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency, the Privatisation Agency, etc. I know that in earlier times some have started creating agencies, not because they wanted to show that something very effective will work and that it will be good for the citizens of Serbia, but for several reasons that are essential. The first is a potential money laundering. The second is to create more centres of political or economic power, not all in the hands of one centre, especially in coalition governments or where there is a very broad coalition that provides the majority in parliament. The third thing is that nobody knows who's in charge of what they're in charge of, who's business, who's in charge of what they're in charge of, so that everyone at a certain point can avoid a certain responsibility. Here's an example - the Privatisation Agency. The Privatisation Agency is doing direct work by the Ministry of Privatisation today. You want proof? He deals exclusively with administrative affairs. Isn't that right, Mr. Cvetkovic? Almost exclusively. So, if something is the business of the state administration, the competent, resolute authority of the state administration, then it's to run administrative affairs. All that the Privatisation Agency brings are administrative acts, or most of all. Then the question is, why do we need the Ministry? Come on, one of those two move, there's no need for both of us. I understand you'll find me perhaps at this point more arguments as to why there should be an Agency, but you won't find me any that such a ministry exists. If there is such a ministry, then we don't need the Agency. There's absolutely no argument. I know the lawyers from your party know that, probably from some other parties, who want to talk about it correctly. I'm just asking one question -- since I've carefully studied your bill, if I'm not mistaken, I may have been wrong, you'll correct me, but I think Article 6 is talking about how public agencies are financed. In that article, somewhere there as a third, the fourth is stated, and what is, in fact, essential, that public agencies will be financed from the budget. That's what we've had so far. So anyone who participated in the debates so far, or in the vote, or in reading the acts that came before the MPs, everyone could see that we have financed all the agencies from the budget so far. And they were put into the budget and the budget rebalance, and at any moment we could only see how we were spending more money. For what? Because we need to get a new director? Because we need to get a new board of directors? You're talking about these officials falling under the Law of Conflict of Interest (by default, and they have to respect it), but I'm asking you - and who respects the Law of Conflict of Interest in this country? There are many laws that no one lives to respect, and I'll give you one. You have a man who is one of the highest state officials, who openly invites people, young soldiers, not to respond to mobilization. Is this being prosecuted on official duty? Fuck off, you all know. Is that someone chasing? Don't go. Who are you chasing? Go after the one who stole a kilo of peppers, or your political opponents, who shared the bonuses with the workers, without ever seeing them. Is that your job? I just want to say that the law has to apply to everything. If agencies are designed to have new boards of directors, to have new directors, to rule only, I would say, a new agreement of the administration or something that is not exactly management directly, even though it does administrative work, it is not known exactly what business is professional, regulatory, developmental... I understand that your government is developing, that it has a strategic, development program. Then why do you need more agencies to develop it even better than your government? Now, let's see what our experience with these agencies is. What great good have we seen from these agencies? I can agree that it's better that there are any rules than there are no rules, that at least there's something you know. To know how to elect a board of directors, how to choose a director, that there's a system like that, what you called it in this law -- just functioning agencies, if they already have to exist. But tell me, please, some result in all this, except for the fact... And now I'm going to tell you, let's say, about Sartide; you know what kind of procedure is going on right now. You know that the competent state authorities are trying to find the real truth -- why this country sold one factory for 60m euros, less money than it could get for the smallest offer that was above that offer. And there were offers for more than a hundred million euros, bigger ones. Do you know that? You know. And you know the procedure is ongoing. What's this about? Who are you going to catch now? That's what it's for. The whole story is that it avoids responsibility. Now you're going to catch two firemen, two assistants and a deputy, and the key people who took part in that dirty business aren't going to get caught. And, because there are also elements of abroad, etc. Why? Because someone's going to say - I'm sorry, I was the head of the State Administration Resorial Authority, I wasn't the head of the Privatisation Agency that conducted it. Or someone else will say that. I gave you an example. You've got as many as you want, anywhere. At the time, in 1999 and 2000, when some were building agencies, we opposed it. It wasn't worth it. And some of you were doing it at that point so they could get more money on those accounts, because it used to -- transfer my money to the agency, and that agency rents two or three other agencies. Of course, these are mostly marketing services, which are some other services. No one can trace it alive. You know that well. When it comes to favors, nobody gets it alive, when, how and how you laundered the money, and nobody gets it. These are all examples from the recent past. These are examples we face daily. The only thing that scares me about what you said, that's -- this is how new agencies are created. Oh, no, please, no more. No, please, no more. Get something somewhere, cut the administration, cut the number of members of the government. You may also have 50 members of the government, but cancel 20 agencies because it will also achieve significant savings. Let something go some rational way. I'm not clear what's behind this and what's going on here. I can understand if you're going to tell us -- here's to sort of regulate the status of agencies, the choice of internal organs, that at least that's known, that there's some kind of regulation that applies to it. But with a promise -- wait, new ones are coming to us now, because it is explained that most of the EU countries are in terms of development, so-called. The government's non-state entities have gone a long way, and neither have we. Well, I'd like us to compare ourselves to them. So it's not every night like here -- yeah, there's retrograde forces, that's what you think differently, and we're the big ones, wearing a blue flag with yellow stars, I don't know what it looks like, I know what this one looks like. So the key question is whether we can compare in terms of economics, economic growth, anything with anyone, and not just in an empty story, in flossules, in how this is going to be, and we're going to be much better. Just one more step and we'll be much better. And the people are getting harder, the people are getting worse. People live worse and worse. I just want to tell you that this agency thing is not going to do any good or good for the citizens of Serbia, except that even more money will have to be allocated from the budget for the needs of something we can't call management jobs, but something that no one can live to understand. And, I wish it were the case that you, even a part of the people, in those agencies that exist, could transfer some of those people from the state administration's resolute authorities, because these people can, if they are professional, if they really are experts, in the best possible way to do some specific jobs, which would be important to the citizens of Serbia. But I'm afraid this is just an accumulation of both officials and new budget users and that the citizens of Serbia will not benefit at all. I would like you to come out one day and show off the pay phone what, how and how it will be good for the citizens of Serbia. We're here for them, not us, not this joke, but we have to do something for these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12680	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? Here you go, Mr. Angelkovic's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12681	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, of course, when in these few previous years we have in a row the formation of various agencies, directorates and so forth, and so forth, then we come into a position that we have to sort out these agencies, directors, offices and the like. After October 5th, the DOS's primary task was to form various agencies, directors, offices and thus to place the first fighters of the five-October revolution, hire them and resolve the debt issue towards those who helped them in the five-October revolution. I was convinced back then, and now, unfortunately, that these agencies and directorates were not serving anything, except for increasing the administration and increasing the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, it was because of this fact that in 2002 and 2003 we had an enormous increase in the budget, and we absolutely burdened Serbia's economy and put it in a position that it simply couldn't work. We can make whatever laws you want now, we should get back to it. I remember that period, of course more from books or from stories of serious businessmen, that because of technology policy in 1971, 2,000 directors were replaced and that Serbia's economy was recovering from the change or replacement of then well-known directors on charges of being techno-managers. Something similar, only on the second charge, on the charge that they were elected at the time of the SPS (or SPS and coalition partners, such as radicals), happened after October 5th -- 30,000 people were replaced. When you replace 30,000 capable people, when you disintegrate them, you banish them, and you bring those who sat somewhere in the seal, by the Danube, for example, and then they show up at the crisis headquarters and take over the Danube, and they spend $37 million in three months (only because it came), then of course you have to form an agency, to see how it can be solved and to overcome problems and legalize the situation. That's the situation we had, in fact, in the previous three years of DOS authorities, when the union agencies were formed. We also got the agency for the diaspora, so, by dividing the portfolio within DOS, everyone who got their own agency hired their party comrades. So Vladan Batic hired 30-40 people at the Diaspora Agency, and in essence there was no effect, because it could not work. Today we have the Diaspora Ministry and we don't know what's wrong with those 30-40 people who worked for the diaspora. Did they lose their jobs? Did they move to the Diaspora Ministry? We discussed here, when it came to the Budget Law, that these agencies would be abolished, but to get a report on what happened to people, funds, whether we saved in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Of course we were against forming agencies back then. But once so many agencies have been formed, it is necessary to regulate the area in the functioning of these agencies, so that this assembly and the government have some control over the functioning of these agencies. Today we have agencies without any control. Some agencies don't even have a board of directors, they only have a director. These directors (even after this, where I have an objection to one member) also determine salaries, have 200-300 thousand salaries, 100-150 thousand each, and we have no control at all. We need the budget to provide funds, to give money from the budget, to vote that budget, and we have no control over the work of those agencies. Then we have agencies that we don't know what they're for. We have a promise that some will be lifted. For these reasons, I think it's necessary that the agency law be passed. So if we can't shut down the agencies, then at least we can arrange that area, so the people know that this assembly can monitor events in those agencies. If so, if we have to regulate these relations, then the question arises whether we have resolved the issue of agency control, agency management and the creation of the atmosphere for agencies to operate in accordance with positive legal rules, and also with this legislative act proposed here, the law on public agencies. For example, Article 2 discusses direct supervision, but also political surveillance. I don't know in what sense it is thought that this political surveillance is taking place, unless it is thought through the boards of directors, if it is said in the act that agencies can have a directly elected board of directors outside the government and a proposal from the government. If the director, under this law, has the right to adopt himself a rule on internal organisation and the systematization of jobs, I think it is necessary that we get an explanation of how the Government, the Assembly, and even through the board of directors, who chooses at least half of what the law proposes, will control the director so that he does not say -- here, my systematization predicts 150 people in this agency, and logically there would be 30 people. This means that the missing funds we need in the Republic of Serbia's budget to predict for those 150 people, regardless of the fact that the agency does not need to have 150, but can work with 20-30 people. Article 21 says very precisely that the work of the director is to make him systematize jobs. Therefore, it is his incoherent authority. If so, he can also employ that systematization to predict the number of workers he wants, and that the next day we have an obligation to service in the budget in fact all those jobs, although in other places we have so many unemployed people. Of course, we will support the law on public agencies to try to help introduce order bar in those agencies that have been formed, so that we can come in a position to know how to control it, but we ask that a number of amendments be respected, which we have not submitted, but other parliamentary groups. We will support some of these amendments that speak of that the Government cannot give up the right to influence, because this can be interpreted as saying that the government, in some ways, does not deny the right to influence the work of agencies, on the one hand; on the other hand, to restrict the right of directors, not to think about the number of mandates, as envisaged, but that, when it comes to systematisation, programmes and similar things, there is no indirect right without the decision of the Board of Directors, whose majority is elected by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, I think that this law must foresee a greater role for the government and the National Assembly if we want to regulate these existing and future agencies that we would form by law. Therefore, we will support the law, and we ask that these amendments be accepted in accordance with the debate, in order to establish order in agencies, directorates and offices formed during the DOS government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12682	Thank you, Mr. Angelkovic. The word is by Mr. Miodrag Stamenkovic, the authorised representative of the SP-New Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12683	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I had no intention of speaking in these small hours, but I am encouraged by the incredible lack of understanding of the essence of the new public management, which is the basis of everything this law, i.e. systemic changes, and, above all, to the users, to bring the state administration and its functions as close as possible to the citizen. Unfortunately, what we have heard so far is regretting the traditional state, the bureaucratized state, whose basic features are centralised, full regulation, overburdening of the rules, limiting the freedom of citizens' inventory and creating a new elite and private privileges instead of social interests. It is a traditional state, which, according to its organization, corresponds to an industrial society, which is the past, including us, and not to a new information society that, similar to artificial intelligence and information technologies, is always turned towards upgrading, feedback, in this case by users, in order to bring society's functions closer to them. There's no problem with the traditional state in people, there's a problem in the system. That's why this is the fundamental system law that introduces this so-called. the new public management, and its basic features are: the separation of strategic public policy from operational management, the concern of results, and not of process and procedure, orientation towards the needs of citizens, and not the interests of organisations or bureaucrats, the orientation to give users or citizens value for money, for public money - adequate service, and the withdrawal of the state from the field of direct provision of services, through the transfer of services to these, as the predecessors called them, minor infamous agencies. Such a transfer of authorities has an essential goal of making the service as close as possible to the user, so that the user can influence the quality of the service; normally, 50% of the boards of directors are representatives of the user. Thirty years in the world of public administration, i.e. public management, is transformed, with less or more success. Just one case to tell you, that's not so bad: in a country that is the predecessor of the "vestminster" way of organizing, in Britain in 1998 they had 138 public agencies, with 386,000 employees or 75% of civil servants. Whoever listens to numbers on the surface, will say -- well, that's terrible, 75% of the state administration is pulled out of the state, decentralised and depolitized. What does that mean, for the public? We've just got the opposite process, we're fighting it. Here's an example. Look at the level of local self-government. With the current Law on Local Self-Government and the Supreme Court's decision that the committees are the owners of the mandate, we have in most municipalities that each next session of the municipal assembly is a new coalition. Every new coalition changes everything from directors to cleaners in public enterprises. Totally leads to one terrible stress in the entire state system. So every election cycle is a stressful phenomenon. Therefore, public services should be depolitised and public agencies should do so. Look what we've brought: that today at our place, first of all at the place, people started to scream and say, "Well, come on, as many as there are parties, give each of you to every public enterprise, each of you, so let's make sure that his CEO is in charge, let the rest be on the stand, but don't let us have total discontinuity in our business every day." That's what depoliticization is for, and if you don't understand what we're talking about, then you don't understand the subject at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12684	Let's not just insult ourselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12685	In systems that are flexible, this transformation is not necessary. However, in the country, or the Republic of Serbia, which is characterized by the exceptional cruelty of the political system, such decentralisation, depolitisation and transfer of the state administration to such public agencies is necessary. In those 138 agencies that I mentioned in Britain, no state directors are appointed, they are selected in public ads. That's the fundamental difference. That's why these agencies that we now have are going to transform, or adapt to the spirit of this law, because that law only aims to make all the current and future agencies, which I hope will be enough to decentralised enough for the state to finally forget those, to excuse, cuppers, ten with ten on the belt level, to bend down and report to an officer who has too much regulation so that he can't finish his jobs, so we have a case that it takes 236 days to get to certain permits. We need a state with such a public administration that at any time the citizen, will provide the user with the maximum service, thus charging him the share and the value of the money, and to try to really get an effective state that won't break from top to bottom at each election cycle.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12686	Are any of the presidents of the MPs' clubs or authorised representatives answering for a word? Yeah. President of the DSS MP club Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12687	I'll do it very briefly, so I don't take the time, given some of the findings that have been made here, and as far as this bill is concerned. So you shouldn't forget one key thing. This bill serves no one else but to regulate one area systemically. It should only be kept in mind. That was said here by all the speakers and all the representatives of the parliamentary groups who have spoken so far. It's a key framework. That's what domain we have to move in. Of course there are misunderstandings about the character of the agency. This lack of understanding has contributed to the relationship between special organisations, institutions, agencies, whatever they call it in the country that we had in the previous period. When one area is not systemically arranged and these special organisations, institutions and agencies are established in a chaotic way, by government regulations, without a clear vision of how it should look and how this area should be arranged, then surely we have different objections that have been made here compared to how these types of public services should look. The problem is that modern society, a modern state, has proved that there are a number of jobs that are in their nature of state affairs, which cannot be done in a body that resembles the state administration in a narrow sense, which are ministries. There are equally jobs that cannot be successfully done in any form that we can call public enterprises today, because they earn profits on the market and live their economic lives independently. Therefore, the entire business sector, as Professor Stamenkovic said a little bit correctly, can and should exist on a special track in order to depolitise a very important sector of social life. I will remind you that we had this in earlier regulations of this country; if you read the General Administrative Procedure Act, you will see that certain tasks of the state administration can be transferred, entrusted as administrative affairs to special organisations and institutions. It's by its nature nothing but what we have today. We're only trying to sort out one area in a system way today. Therefore, this is not a debate that should show any bile, any evil energy, evil will toward something. Simply, agencies are founded exclusively by law. This is the basic goal, so that we can look at the meaning, needs, and goals of each of these agencies that are eventually established through the prism of a particular area for which a certain material regulation is adopted, a law that is passed in the National Assembly. In this way, the National Assembly, as the highest legislative body in the state, has the right, the opportunity and the obligation to assess whether there is a need for a particular area to establish a specific agency to carry out this type of state work. So, in this whole story, there's no mystification, all that's about funding agencies, the way they work, all that can be solved through one system regulation and through a material and special regulation, the law that the agency is set up. Anything that is not regulated by one general law, by a system law, such as this one, can be particularly regulated, as the possibility is left, by a special law. Hence, there is no reason to be concerned or to feel any danger that agencies will harm us. They have shown their good side in modern countries, especially those that make up the core of the European Union today.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12688	Are any of the presidents of the MPs' clubs or authorised representatives answering for a word? Yeah. National MP Dusan Petrovic, head of the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12689	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the DS will make a statement on this law, so the way we vote will be based on the relationship that the Proposer will have with the DS amendments. I will take this opportunity -- also very briefly, because unfortunately in the late hours we are discussing a very important law -- let me just say a few words about how good evolution is present in the views of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Minister and Ministry who are also proposing this law. There were many prejudices, there were prejudices. Some of these prejudices and prejudices were very important topics in the election campaigns behind us, but it is also very important that in the predominant part of the Serbian political scene we all come together to a very firm belief that a state organisation and all those who exercise or exercise public authority will adapt to the organisation and way of empowering in developed European and overseas countries. What I can conclude from the bill's proposal is that agencies finally stop, for a very significant number of parties in Serbian politics, to be a issue. Of course, agencies as an organisational form represent, in themselves, the content of or will be carried out through the agency. That's a lot of smart words being said here tonight. What I think is important is that with or without understanding, voluntary or reluctant management in public affairs becomes widely accepted value in Serbian politics or, to be precise, value accepted by the significant majority of participants in politics in Serbia. That's the most important thing. The most important thing is that what the DS was talking about and in what she put a lot of effort into during the government's late years, Zoran Djindjic and Zoran Zivkovic became valuable in public and political life in Serbia. Prejudice always leads to bad consequences. I'm just going to give one illustration of what bad consequences can come about when, without enough thought, and with emotion and prejudice, in politics, they judge certain issues. The Privatisation Agency was one of the key topics of DS opponents or, rather, the functioning of the Privatisation Agency. It has been almost a year, and no major irregularity in the work of the Privatisation Agency has been established in the procedures prescribed in this country. There was prejudice about what should be done and what the Privatisation Agency is doing. We had a consequence that in this country, privatisation, which is one of the key processes, has been stopped for six months. The political majority in this assembly came to that conclusion after six months and took very radical steps both in personal and political terms, precisely because it realized that it was impossible or, rather, harmful to stop the process that the agency was doing. Today, the Ministry of Economy or the current minister and the Privatisation Agency are correcting everything that has been done in six months of an ideological approach that has been colored by the Privatisation Agency. Much has been said here in the previous period that a budget inspection or other competent authorities will be doing all the necessary controls in agencies that have existed so far, and that's fine. I don't know that any serious irregularities have been found in the functioning of the agencies that were founded during the previous two governments. That's proof, I say once again, that politics always requires good thinking and a sense of strategy. One thing was also highlighted as important, when it comes to agencies, which is that there is no parliamentary control of the work of agencies. Under this bill, and according to the concept given here, parliament will not be able, at least not directly, to determine whether the agencies have done business legally or not, whether they have worked whole-way or not -- that will be done by whoever the agencies establish, and that will be the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This parliament always has the opportunity to conduct an indirect debate on the functioning of the government and the ministries, and to exercise proper control over what the agencies are doing. I will conclude by repeating another important thing: it is good that Serbia is moving towards Europe and that prejudices in the good part of Serbian politics are falling. This brings us closer to what is Serbia's most important state goal, which is faster EU accession. It's a win-win for which DS fights.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12690	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to the order of MPs according to the application for a word in the principle of the draft law on public agencies. According to Article 89(3), the first registered speaker is the MP Ljiljana Nestorović, and let the MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12691	I share the opinion of my fellow Members, Mr. Minister, of those MPs who have presented here all the reasons why one system law on public agencies needs to be passed. However, I believe that this bill still requires a serious analysis and comment, because the concept of this law in my opinion is, in some ways, strange. The reasons for the adoption of this law are explained: the development of administrations and the expansion of their businesses, the dispensation of state administration, the creation of a direct relationship with users of services and, most importantly, the need to adopt uniform rules on the basis of already established agencies under specific laws, which creates, as it is stated, untransparent legislation. When we thought we had a fully sound system law with clear rules for the establishment and operation of agencies, we met in the very text of the law with a new writing style, with a large number of provisions that are on a double track. Are such provisions in the law good, that is, a question that needs to be considered and analysed. Perhaps they are and would be good in a society where the rule of law works and in which there is no such percentage of corruption and poverty. Perhaps by the end of the liberal law would be more acceptable under such circumstances. In the conditions in which this society operates today and with the characteristics we are still facing, I think we should reduce this liberal concept of the law itself. In Article 1 The draft law provides the definition of a public agency and is said to be a public agency established for development, professional or regulatory matters of general interest. In Article 2(2), the following is announced, which is that, according to the public agency’s purpose, certain issues of the public agency’s position can be regulated differently from this law. I must say that a similar provision follows in many members of this law that come after this first member, and Article 7 states: "In terms of legality, expertise, political neutrality, impartiality, the use of the official language and the letter, professional training and training of employees working on entrusted tasks of the state administration and in matters of office, public agencies are subject to the rules relating to the state administration" in order to then show in Article 2 that "the rights, obligations, responsibilities and earnings of directors and employees of the public agency are subject to general rules of work, if this or specific law is not otherwise specified". Then, it said in Article 8: "The rightful founder on behalf of the Republic of Serbia shall be carried out by the Government if the special law does not specify anything else. If the public agency's affairs are in the works of several ministries, it proposes decisions to the Government by agreement, if this or a special law is not otherwise specified. "Article 13: "The public agency organisations are the board of directors and directors. It can be determined by special law that the public agency has other authorities, entirely other bodies or that the Management Board and the Director have a different workaround than the workaround set out in this law. "I will give another example, although there are others in the following members, in Article 14, I was particularly distracted by this: "The board members and directors are officials," and you said in your opening statement, "in the sense of the law governing conflict of interest in the performance of public functions. "In the second position, it says: "Prohibitions and obligations subject to board members and directors can be extended beyond the law governing conflict of interest in the exercise of public functions by a special law or act establishing a public agency. "I don't know what you specifically meant here, because I believe that this is where the law which is otherwise the general law, the Law on conflict of interest, which has been passed by this assembly and which should be valid, without exception, absolutely for all the laws that we are going to pass, and also for this law on public agencies. As you can see, from a large number of legal norms follow a provision - if the special law is not otherwise established. What can be expected, for all of this, in applying this law as the ultimate result? I think we're getting some kind of non-transparent legislation again, which is listed as one of the reasons why this law is passed. The proposal for this law cannot therefore be regarded as an end to the system law. What I said, I don't think Serbia has, although much has been said about this lately, a large civil apparatus, but the fact that this law will increase this apparatus, such as the fact that the funds from the agency's work budget will be increased, as two ways of funding are mentioned in the law. You led them here, not to quote them. I repeat once again that because of all of this, it was better, in my opinion, to pass a truly system law, with clear rules, because our country is still with a high degree of corruption, quite poor, and that only later, with the comparative strengthening of the legal institutions and economic recovery of the country, it liberalises relations in the area of establishment and work of public agencies.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12692	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, and let the MP Ivan Zivadinović be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12693	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the DS parliamentary group, I would like to express my deepest dissatisfaction that such an important law is being discussed in this weather. It is almost midnight, and we need to make decisions on the regulation of such an important area, which has long been recognised by the Democratic Party as an important area. We look forward to having this law on the agenda of the National Assembly, but we really don't think it's polite at least, and it's not right that there's a law that says in reason that the system law is currently under discussion. It is possible that we all have conditions, it is possible that we understand the importance of Parliament, it is likely that we all understand it together, but it is also unlikely that we can withstand work longer than 12, 13, 14, or who knows how many hours, when today's session will be over. This is the subject, because I highly doubt the capacity of the MPs to adequately monitor the work of the session and to take a critical look at, positively or negatively, this law that needs to regulate a very important area of our legal system.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12694	We have no doubt in you that you will well explain your views. Do not question the messengers that they will understand at this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12695	I doubt you a long time ago, and I ask you not to interrupt me anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12696	It is your right to doubt me, but I tell you as a People's MP, you speak of the subject, and the MPs have voted to have the strength to work and will continue to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12697	The Democratic Party believes it is very good that this law is on the agenda and that this proves the possibility of political parties in Serbia to recognise areas that need to be regulated and shows that everyone is able to transform and accept it as a positive segment and the evolution of our political life. We are really pleased that this time we have found a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, because it has recently challenged the possibility of such a law coming and that there is a constitutional basis for the existence of agencies at the state level. We are pleased that today this constitutional basis, as explained in the explanation, exists and is found in Articles 72 and 94. The constitution, and as you know, Serbia's Constitution has not changed yet. We are also pleased that the agency for many political structures in Serbia ceases to be a bauk, ceases to be something that we will all be afraid of or feared by the people of Serbia. The agencies are something that you all need, something that is familiar with the legal systems of developed countries of Europe, something that most European Union countries consider a very important segment of the functioning of economic and public life. What we do not understand is, again, why it was necessary to wait this long, that so long the work of previous agencies, which have done so much good in the Republic of Serbia, is being challenged. Criticisms that have been repeatedly referred to by the agencies were not subject to control, particularly parliamentary ones, also currently have no basis in this law. The agencies are also not subject to parliamentary control under this law. We have overcome prejudice, we have overcome prejudices, and we hope that we will also win some of our personal vanity and try to analyse the amendments that have been submitted, because, among other things, the DS will condition its relationship to this law by adopting the amendments it has submitted. The amendments are, above all, of a professional nature and in many respects exclusively to the precision of certain provisions of this law. We believe that it is very important in Article 2 to define and make the distinction between the public agency and the authorities of the state administration more precise and therefore we have proposed the amendment of Article 1(2)'s position. Furthermore, we think it is very important to organise the Environment Agency as an expert body and as an expert regulatory body of the competent environment ministry and we believe that this is in line with the European Union's request. An existing solution, according to the Ministry Act, where the Environment Agency is part of the competent ministry, is not a solution in line with European integration and we propose that the minister consider our amendment, and we also suggest that the amendments be adopted. We think it is important to inform MPs in the Republic Assembly that the Law on the Registration of Business Entities has been adopted, so that it should therefore adopt certain DS amendments concerning, above all, the harmonisation of this law to the law that this assembly recently passed. Certain provisions relating to registration in the court register should be replaced by provisions concerning registration in the register of economic operators run by the Agency for Economic Registers, as we certainly need to take care of the single legal system in the Republic of Serbia. It is also important to specify Article 8 of the Act as regards the establishment of the Agency. We believe that it is not clear enough who the founder of the agency is, and we think that Article 8 should be complemented by Article 1 in which the founder of the public agency is the Republic of Serbia, unless the law provides otherwise, because there is no clear provision in the law which recognises the founder of the agency. What is also important and we believe that this should be regulated in any case by this law, it is certainly the way in which users name their representatives on the board of directors. We think it should be arranged by a founding act. In that sense, the DS also submitted an amendment. What is also important and we think it would be good for the DS amendment solution, that is to introduce the right to launch a administrative dispute. This is regulated in Article 38, and we believe that it should be complemented by the proposal that the ministry's solution is finally in the administrative process and that administrative dispute can be initiated against it. These are the basic amendments submitted by DS. You see, they don't have political nature, and we think they're maximumly focused on improving the provisions of this law. What we are particularly pleased about is that both the legislator and the government acknowledge that the managerial approach in the state administration is something that is terribly important and acknowledges that it was wrong not so long ago, only a few years ago, to believe that the management approach in the state administration is contrary to the principle of legalism and that it certainly looks like a 2002 newspaper exchange, one of the biggest communists "shouldn't stick to the law as a drunk float". We are pleased to now believe that management is something that is essential for the development of all possible segments in the Republic of Serbia and we are pleased that this law, regardless of the major problems, is still on the agenda of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12698	The word is made by the MP Ivan Zivadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12699	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, good evening ladies and gentlemen MPs, Mr. Minister's respect for us from the G17 Plus parliamentary group, unlike my predecessors, it's not hard to work nights. I'll remind you that we've already had seven, eight days like this, that we've worked on Saturdays. We voted the budget at 3:30 in the morning, and all because 460,000 of our citizens voted for us in December 2003 and we will not let them down. One of my favorite singers, Rambo Amadeus, in one song, says, "Don't philosophize Rambo, but make a hit, the people are full of your philosophy." If he can tell himself that, it would be right for this speaker to be told about the subject on the agenda, which is the law on public agencies. Public agencies represent new organisational forms, which, among other things, also carry out administrative work in some areas of social life. The establishment of agencies was already a practice of this assembly, through the Law on the Agency for Privatisation, the Law on the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises, the Law on Tobacco, the Law on Planning and Construction, the Act on the Agency for Economic Registers, the Law on the Agency for the Licensing of Banks, the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices. This law clearly defines the relationship between agencies, users and state authorities and foresees that, apart from the Republic, the founders can also be an autonomous province or unit of local self-government. The above-mentioned laws determine the organisation, authorities and work of agencies, but not well enough, and relations, which are not uniform from agency to agency. It is necessary to pass system law, public agencies law, which would set out uniform frameworks for the functioning of public agencies and rules of action towards users. The adoption of a law on public agencies would precisely define the responsibility of a public agency to the founder and users and would increase the effectiveness and rationality of public spending. What needs to be pointed out in particular, the adoption of this law does not require additional funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget. This law provides for the transfer of certain jobs, which can be done faster, better and more effectively, from the authorities of the state administration to public agencies. Also, this will improve independent regulation, i.e. governance of certain areas that are independent of short-term political claims by the authorities. Following the principle of proportionality, the transfer of power from power to public agencies will have the use of the least possible volume of force. Service users will have greater control over the quality and expertise of public sector work. The establishment of mechanisms for the impact of service users on the work of public agencies should prevent the emergence of oligarchy. The public agency shall be defined as an organisation performing development, professional and regulatory tasks of general interest. The purpose of existence is not to gain profits and is therefore subject to a special legal regime. The public agency can be established by a special law, which would regulate the specificities of a social life area and determine the purpose of its establishment, business, as well as the tasks of the state administration entrusted to it. There are two legal conditions for the establishment of a public agency. The first condition is that the Agency acts and fulfils its purpose in the Autonomous Social Area, i.e. without constant political surveillance through the ministries and the government. The second condition is that public agencies can do their jobs better and more successfully than public administration authorities, especially if these transactions are financed in general or mainly from the price paid by service users. Of course, we in Serbia don't have to invent hot water, because these solutions already exist in the West. Such solutions exist in America, exist in the EU; Slovenia passed a law on public agencies on 31 May 2002. In European Union legislation, the Agency is a body defined by European public law, separate from European institutions: councils, parliaments, commissions, etc., has its own legal identity. It shall be established by means of an act of a secondary source of law, regulation, instruction, decision, recommendation by Parliament, council or commission in order to achieve the very specific technical, scientific or management tasks set out in the relevant act of the European Union. In addition to the relatively well-known European Agency for Reconstruction, there are 15 other specialized agencies, such as The European Agency for the Promotion of Living and Working Conditions, the European Environment Agency, the European Monitoring Centre for racism and xenophobia, here is one Office for Harmonization of Internal Markets (probably some have served as a model to do so in Serbia and to push in hundreds of their people), the European Medicines Agency, the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work. Public agencies are independent of power. Independence is expressed through: organisational independence, because the public agency is not directly subordinated to the Government or to any other government body; functional independence, because the powers and rules under which the public agency operates are laid down by law, thus preventing the creation of a free space where the founder of a public agency or users of its services could have an impact on decision-making in public agencies; personal independence – the law precisely defines the procedure and conditions for the appointment of responsible persons, independent of the authorities; financial independence, which is viewed in independent financing by users. Of course, in addition to the independence enjoyed by public agencies, the founder retains two responsibilities. The first is the appointment and resolution of members of the public agency's body, and the second is to give consent to the most important decisions of the public agency: the annual work programme, the financial plan, the tariff and the allocation of surplus revenue over expenditure. The G17 plus parliamentary group will be happy to vote for this law and we call on anyone who hesitates to do so in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12700	The People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the word, and let the MP Branislav Nedimovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12701	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, already more participants in this discussion are being held by the EU, for the United States, for other Western European countries and say the agencies there are modern. Possibly. It's possible, because none of these states have to make donations from the health care budget and pump 65 billion dinars into a pension fund to get pensions. That's why they can have agencies, one, a hundred, a thousand. This is not the situation here in Serbia. In Serbia, the budget, as it is, is tense to the end. By opening up new agencies, an already poored and mutilated budget would be in an even more difficult situation. All those who claim that this will not be an additional budget burden, the application of this law, or they are wrong or they are lying to both the MPs and the people who are watching this. He's saying the agencies themselves are going to go down in the water if they look at the 2005 budget a little bit. For example, you have a recycling agency, which will finance 100% of the Republic of Serbia's budget and spend 30 million dinars just like that. Or, you have an Agency for Foreign Investment and Export Promotion. I don't know what we need it for, because there's always a foreign trade deficit, but it doesn't matter, it's going to cost about 40 million dinars. Someone here keeps trying to show that the agency is not an authority of the state administration. If a man takes a look at this law and reads it, he sees it's not like that. Now I ask the question -- we have the Environmental Protection Agency, which needs to spend a little less than 30 million dinars, and we have the Environmental Protection Agency, which needs to spend 720 million dinars. That's what it looks like when DOS, the old guy, or this new guy, spends his budget and budgets. There is not a year since lawmakers from the ruling majority jumped out of these benches for this pay phone and claimed that the government, headed by Vojislav Kostunica, has annulled all the regulations that formed the agencies. So one law started to form a new agency, so the other, the third, and then the fourth, and then the fifth, we got back to the same number of agencies as when DOS was in power. Now, here's the system law. The MPs will no longer have to ask questions about agencies, but we will write a law, and if the agencies are so good to you, gentlemen of the ruling majority, as soon as the law comes into force, establish a public agency for the establishment of public agencies. That seems to be the best solution for you, the only thing you know in the system of state administration. It is already in the first parts of the bill itself that the claim of all those who defended this law – that this is something good, revolutionary, has nothing to do with it. All the time, he wants it to be shown that the agency is not an authority of the state administration, but in the first members of the law, it has all the characteristics of the state administration. He wants it to be shown that she is independent of work, and already in the first members of the law, it is seen that she is also addicted. For example, in Article 2, for the benefit of your claim, it states – if the public agency can do them better and more effectively than the public administration body, it means that it is a business that the agency will carry out, and in Article 3 it says – public agency can be entrusted with a special law, as a public authority, with the following matters of state administration: 1) the adoption of rules for the enforcement of laws and other general acts of the National Assembly and Government; 2) the resolution in the first degree in administrative matters. Well, somebody convince me now that the agency is not an authority of the state administration and is not in the system of state administration. When it comes to independence, it tries to appear in Article 4, which says, "The public agency is independent in its work. The government cannot direct the work of a public agency, nor coordinate it with the work of the government's authorities. "Let's look at how this agency is founded in Article 8, the agencies established by the government -- the right of the founder on behalf of the Republic of Serbia to exercise the government if the special law is not different. The government's decisions are proposed by the ministry whose work is being done by the public agency. Item 3, if that's within the jurisdiction of several ministries... However, already with the board of directors, which is the authority of one agency's administration, the first words of Article 16(2) say: "All members of the board of directors are appointed by the founder... "Read – The Government of the Republic of Serbia. The executive body, to say that it is the director, is defined in Article 24. Bill proposal: "The Director is appointed founder after a public competition". Instead of the founder, read freely – the Government of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to funding public agencies, I can only say that I have taken several agencies financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget, already mentioned the Environment Protection Agency, the Agency for the Development of Local Self-Government Infrastructure, for example, will spend slightly less than five million, Mr. Minister. It's your agency, your ministry. Foreign Investment and Export Promotion Agency - 37 million, Recycling Agency - 25 million, Energy Efficiency Agency - 8,760,000 etc. My suggestion is: if you really want an effective administration, in the way you see it, you can go free right now, as soon as this law takes effect to set up a public agency for the establishment of public agencies.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12702	The People's MP Branislav Nedimovic has the word, and then Milan Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12703	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, the honourable MPs, at the beginning of their presentation, I point out that DSS MPs will vote in favour of the draft law on public agencies in the voting day. And why would he do that, I'll try to explain it in a few minutes. In the 1970s and 1980s, certain organisations that performed certain tasks began to appear in the EU countries, i.e. they had certain administrative powers. These were non-state entities, which were the holders of certain administrative powers. But why were they founded? They were primarily founded in countries that have a rigid state administration system, where it was only possible by law to establish any government body, and many jobs began to occur that could not be achieved in one normal way within the state administration's authority. The legislator himself defines a public agency as an organisation established to carry out regulatory, professional and development affairs of general interest. The question arises which reasons led to the emergence of such forms of organization. The answer lies in the fact that these tasks carried out by the authorities of the state administration are extremely extensive in their nature, that these are jobs that have recently begun to multiply and that we are therefore coming into a situation that the authorities of the state administration become threefolds, and that they cannot adequately meet the needs of citizens. The general trend, therefore, is to disbursement the authorities of the state administration, so that they themselves, in a much better way, carry out essential tasks of the state administration, and that non-state administration entities are left with such administrative powers where there is no need for the continued presence of political control, moreover, a constant presence of the profession is needed. In order to create public agencies in the first place, the law prescribes two conditions: that the public agency works and performs its profession in a relatively autonomous field of social life and that the public agency can carry out these tasks independently and independently, i.e. that these tasks can be done much better than the public administration's authority. Once again, I will stress that this law in one system way regulates the existence of public agencies. This law does not establish any new public agency. This law seeks to overcome a situation that existed in several previous years, when a number of public agencies were established by the Serbian government's regulations. The National Assembly passed several laws that envisioned the existence of several public agencies, but no public agency established the Government of the Republic of Serbia by its regulation. It is a fluid that we must confess, or give her credit, and this National Assembly should be raised by it. The aim of the proposal was to establish the position of a public agency, as a public authority holder, to establish its organisation, to establish the protection of general interest, the relationship with users of public agencies services and to establish the self-financing of public agencies. The public agency is, in essence, a legal person of public law, as it is educated to do business of general interest. It is independent in its work, and the proposer has given it to exercise certain administrative powers, and above all: to bring regulations for the enforcement of laws and other general acts of the National Assembly and the Government, to solve in the first degree in administrative matters and to keep public records and to issue public documents based on them. No public agency can be established unless a specific law provides for its establishment. So there's no place to set up public agencies based on regulations. Only on the basis of a special law, which clearly defines a particular area of social life within which a public agency can be established, the founder. The government may adopt an act establishing a certain public agency, all in accordance with this law on public agencies. It is very important that the proposing has been foreseen by the Agency's authorities, which are the Management Board and the Director. These bodies, appointed by the founder, include direct users, particularly within the board of directors; this is an extremely important control mechanism and are largely aware of the public work of the public agency itself. The public work of the public agency can be learned through the provision of information provided by public agencies to users of their services on their work. In addition to the organisation of public agencies, the text of the bill clearly defines public agencies. These are, above all, regulatory matters, relating to the adoption of sublegal acts for the enforcement of laws and other general acts and the resolution of administrative matters in the first degree. We also have development agencies, which serve to develop a particular social area. We also have expert public agencies. Although public agencies are set up to single out certain transactions outside the public administration, it is necessary to protect the general interest in a valid manner. He protects himself in two ways. First of all, through the appointment of board members and directors by the founders; specifically, the director after a public competition, which is announced in the "Official Messenger", may be appointed by the founder. And, secondly, through granting consent to the most important acts of the public agency. In this way, however, the founder retains the influence on the work of the public agency, yet the public agency remains independent in much of its existence. One of the most important characteristics of this law is also the large financial independence of public agencies, as they make the most of their income through the payment of services to users, but only at economic prices, without obtaining profits. For this reason, public agencies are additionally enticing as a form of administrative powers. A number of allegations have been heard here that public agencies are mostly financed from the budget. But I don't think there's such a claim. There are public agencies that are self-financed. These are telecommunications agencies, the Agency for the Register of Business Entities. They earn certain revenue from performing their services, on the basis of which they perform their work. Another thing that is foreseen by the public agency bill is that both the authorities of the Autonomous province and local self-government can set up public agencies, and only if this is envisaged by the general act of the Autonomous Region and local self-government bodies. Here it may seem, therefore, that there will be a huge wave of establishing new public agencies, especially in local self-government. But that shouldn't be a trend. In the proposal for a law on public agencies, this stems from the fact that local self-government authorities, within the original section of the business they conduct, have certain jobs that are not the best way to implement within the existing authorities. So we have a situation in Article 18. The Law on Local Self-Government, item 1 point 17) –local self-government adopts the basics of protection, use and regulation of agricultural land and takes care of their implementation, regulates erotic areas, takes care of the use of pastures, decides on the translation of pastures into other cultures. Since I come from the Vojvodina area, perhaps this particular area of agriculture can be an area of social life within which certain agencies can find a basis, because in one easier way citizens can realise their interests within local self-government. Finally, it should be said that this is a good law, which systemically regulates the existence of public agencies, which has not been the case so far. That is why I call on all MPs to vote in favour of the draft law on public agencies, in addition to the DSS MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12704	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Vesenovic, and let MP Velimir Simonovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12705	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party is generally and in principle against the establishment of agencies, some centres, some new credentials or trustees, etc., which we have heard and adopted so far, by your majority, in this assembly. Why are we against the establishment of agencies? First of all, because they create new centres of political power, new money laundering. Simply, Serbian citizens are paying for a new state body of administration in addition to state authorities, so these are new commitments, new bureaucratic centres. Therefore, the Serbian Radical Party is generally and in principle against such a law. I believe that tonight many Serbian citizens are watching this assembly with great attention. Why? Because also those who are in power today, the rest of the DOS, promised in a pre-election campaign to undo all the agencies set up by the previous DOS because there were many malversions and illegal actions. Unfortunately, the government goes on to establish many agencies; waiting from law to law, there are always some agencies, some outposts of the competent ministry. What exactly are these agencies and this law that's being passed today, and it's likely that your majority will be adopted? In fact, Serbian citizens must know that this law regulates the work of agencies, but so that they are directly under government supervision. However, looking at how this law was written and made, I concluded that it was made from several centers, it was simply handled from several centres to make such a law. What am I saying that for? Because, above all, the legal provisions are against each other, they are collapsing and because this law wanted to please the European Union and the powers of the centre of power in Europe, and otherwise to put agencies under total control of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You can see that when you read the law itself. I believe that Serbian citizens are expecting us to cancel all the agencies tonight and not start new ones; especially when it comes to the Privatisation Agency, when the citizens of Serbia hear it, and especially the workers you sold out to businesses, I believe they won't have a peaceful dream tonight, and individuals will get stress. We hear daily that they are objecting to the cancellation of the contract on the purchase of their businesses. That's what the Privatisation Committee members know best. I have an example from Novi Pazar: The Rasak Tricottage has been transformed into Octanpro, and the workers are looking for their rights to cancel the contract, but we're walking them from the Privatisation Committee to the agency, and again from door to door, from office to office, so they'll never be able to reach their rights. That's what it's designed to do by creating new bureaucratic power centers. From the law itself, you will see that some of the provisions of this law are in collegiate and simply cannot be said that the agencies are independent of the Ministry, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, in the first, basic provision we have the independence of the public agency: "The public agency is independent in its work. The government cannot direct the work of a public agency, nor coordinate it with the work of the government's authorities." From here, we conclude that the Agency is independent and that the Government cannot manage it, nor give it any jurisdiction or provisions to which they must be managed. In the second chapter, where we have the exercise of founding rights, Article 8: "The rightful founder on behalf of the Republic of Serbia shall be exercised by the Government if the special law is not different. The government's decisions are proposed by the ministry whose work is being done by the public agency." So, the government is the founder of the agency, and the jobs the agency is doing are part of the work of the competent ministry, which means that it's being denied that we decentralised or depolitize our system by creating such agencies. Furthermore, funds for the start of work of the public agency – business space, equipment and other means for the start of work of the public agency is provided by the founder. From here you can see that the founder provides even the means to start work. Then, we have a register of the establishment of a public agency in the court register, Article 11: "After the adoption of a public agency act, the founder shall appoint the temporary director of the public agency, who shall, under the supervision of the founder, prepare the start of the work of the public agency. "This is another proof that the founder also appoints V.D. Director. The appointment of the first bodies of the public agency: "After enrolment of the public agency in the court register, the founder shall appoint the board of directors of the public agency and after a public competition has been carried out and the director of the public agency. "Isn't this enough to conclude that the simply public agency is the government or the government's competent ministry of the Republic of Serbia. Just to remind me of Article 16, where it is said in Section 2: "All members of the board of directors shall be appointed by the founder, except when a part of the members shall be appointed by the users themselves. "It would make sense to say here that users name the board of directors. Then we could say, well, this agency is independent, to trust certain jobs. However, users name only part of the board of directors, and the government of the Republic of Serbia appoints most of the board of directors. On this point, you're wrong to say that the agency is independent in its work. We have Article 20: "The board of directors has a president appointed by the founder among the board members... ". So the founder also appoints the chairman of the board of directors. It's such a decentralisation of the agency itself that the board of directors can't choose their board of directors. These are really anomalies, and I think this should have been quite different to regulate if this law wanted to achieve what you're saying. I also remind you of the appointment of directors and public competitions: "The director is appointed founder after a public competition. "So the founder also appoints a director. It's just that this is pure centralism, that it just wants to unload the ministry, in some ways, and distract citizens from going from institution to institution so they can't possibly get their own solutions. Public agency business: "A public agency can be entrusted with a special law with all matters of state administration that can be entrusted to public agencies at all under this law. "If the establishment of public agencies continues like this and you make laws like this, we will be in a situation that we will not need a government or a ministry at all. We simply need to establish agencies from all resolution ministries, we need to find one conciliar, and then we won't need a government. This is how it comes out. Public agency financing: "Employments of the state administration entrusted to the public agency are funded from the Republic of Serbia's budget. "It is a fact, meaning they are financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. What's going on now? Serbian citizens pay taxes to charge the Republic of Serbia's budget, and now they have to pay for the agency's services. This is a new imposition for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, let me tell you that this law, as it is written, should not be voted in this assembly at all. It should simply be withdrawn from the procedure and all MPs working in the interests of Serbian citizens, that all agencies established by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and those financed from the budget stop working.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12706	The word is by MP Velimir Simonovic, and may the MP Aleksandar Djordjevic prepare for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12707	Ladies and gentlemen, since several speakers have pointed out the greatest importance of this law, which is to level the establishment of the agency, I will try not to repeat any of it, but to talk about some other things entirely. Here's a few of my notes. It is good that Article 7 provides for general labour regulations to be applied to the earnings of the directors and employees of the public agency. There is also a follow-up – if this or a special law is not something else. It's a bit unusual now, not to get back into a situation where the president of the council was scheduled to have ten average incomes, members of the board of eight average incomes, so we all rebelled against it here. I think only general labour regulations should be used to determine profits. Article 12 provides for the founder to appoint a board of directors and then a director based on the competition. I think it's extremely important that the directors of the agency are finally elected through a public competition, and that's the depoliticalization. So, a contest is being held, so whoever thinks he can be the director of some agency, get him to answer, so he'll be elected, or he won't be elected. However, it says that the founder appoints a board of directors, and after a public competition and a director of a public agency. Perhaps there was a good solution for the board of directors to propose the director, and then eventually the founder confirms it, and even if he had a discretionary right not to choose anyone. I wouldn't even mind that. As for board members, they obviously must be understood, not or not have to be on permanent duty in agencies. Then it makes sense that what is in Article 17 to determine the work compensation according to the criteria defined in the establishment of a public agency, which is not in agreement with Article 7 which applies only to the earnings of the directors and those working in the Agency. However, Article 21 states that the Director adopts a regulation on the internal organisation and systematisation of public agency jobs. I think it would be a better solution if it were for the director to propose regulation and systematization, and the board of directors would accept it. What particularly falls into my eyes is Article 22, which states that a person who meets certain conditions, including at least five years of work experience, can be appointed to the director. It's too small. I can't imagine that someone is the director of the Privatisation Agency, the Energy Efficiency Agency, or any other agency, and only has five years of work experience. And ten is small, believe me. I thought I was writing an amendment, asking for a minimum of ten years. I didn't do it, I comfort myself by applying the law to regulate it in a natural way. When a competition is called, people with much more work experience appear, so those five or six years old have no chance of being elected. If I had submitted one such amendment, maybe the government would have accepted it. Without ten years of work experience, no one can be the director of any agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12708	The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Djordjevic, and let the MP Dragoslav Milkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12709	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, dear Serbian citizens who are still awake watching the direct transfer of the National Assembly, the SRS has a number of objections to the government's draft law on public agencies. Essentially, the SRS is primarily against the formation of agencies, as the former DS government did, which formed the famous Privatisation Agency, so on, for the tobacco, for construction and planning, and so on. The DSS-led government has also formed several agencies. Among other things, the Environmental Protection Agency. What the colleagues of the SRS who spoke about this speaker have said in principle, it is precisely that in the reasons for the adoption of this law, as the government of the Republic of Serbia has outlined in this proposal, it says: "The development of the administration and the expansion of its businesses require the creation of new, new jobs adapted to status forms that are able to carry out new jobs. "Then it is stated in these reasons – the creation of new status forms, in order to bring this area into line with European legislation and so on. Whenever justice is to be the reason for a law that doesn't go, I'm sure of it, in favour of the citizens of Serbia... And in particular, we had opportunities, when we talked about the Law on Railways and about many other laws for this assembly speaker, we were in principle against the creation and formation of agencies, because we know that this increases bureaucratic apparatus and administration in the state administration. When certain MPs of the ruling coalition defend this bill, they speak of it as so-called. independent bodies, we believe that these public agencies will be parallel systems. What we should be afraid of, I think that this speaker was mentioned by one of the ruling coalition's MPs when he said that Serbia was not economically developed and strong enough to allow itself, and we also know that there is a lot of corruption in the country and we know just how much machination there was by the former government when it comes to the Privatisation Agency. The minister said in his statement that this bill proposed by the government to the National Assembly is a demystification of what the agencies are doing. We can say that we have a series of objections to the bill, although we have submitted only one amendment, given the fact that we are in principle advocating not to form agencies, because we believe that these are parallel systems of power and that they can grow into it. The essence of this bill can be seen in Article 1 where Article 2 states: "A special law may, according to the public agency's purpose, regulate certain issues of the public agency's position differently than this law. "What, then, is this law that you have proposed to the National Assembly if you do not regulate the entire area with this law? We also have a number of objections to Article 2: "A public agency is established if development, professional and regulatory affairs do not require permanent and direct political supervision and if the public agency can do them better and more effectively than the authority of the state administration, especially if they can finance themselves in general or mainly from the price paid by the service users. "In the second position, they say, "the founder must be authorised by special law to set up a public agency. "It's about some new law again. In Article 3, where it is mentioned that public authorities are entrusted to the public agency, point 2) says – first-degree resolution in administrative matters, and point 3) issue of public documents and keeping records. Then why the government? Why, then, the Resort Ministry if you're going to transfer it to the Agency's jurisdiction? The minister, in an explanation, which was very short, and the dwarve, when he spoke about regulatory affairs, spoke of him as the founder of the Republic. These agencies cannot be independent, they are dependent on the Republic of Serbia and the government. The fact is that they are financed from the Republic's budget, that funds are allocated to finance these agencies. This story behind this pay phone, which some defend in a noble way, that certain EU countries have adopted this principle and that we must go that way – probably the most economically developed countries of the EU, as one of the ruling coalition MPs has spoken for this speaker. In order not to go back to it, the point is that the SRS cannot agree with this law, because we believe that agencies are something that will increase the administration in the state administration. If that's what we say, you can see it in Article 8. The draft law in Chapter 2, where it says - the establishment of a public agency from the Republic of Serbia and the exercise of founding rights, said in Article 8, "The rightful founder on behalf of the Republic of Serbia shall be carried out by the Government if the special law is not specified otherwise. "I think that the termological this "what else is specified" is not well written, but it is not so important, it is important that the agency is in the power of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Speaking of the Agency's independence and it's going to be some parallel bodies, I don't think there's any ground to it anyway. That way we will greatly increase the administration in the state administration. The fact that the law is not well-conceived and written also speaks for the fact that Article 13 says: "The public agency's organisations are the board of directors and directors. It can be determined by special law that the public agency has other bodies, entirely other bodies, or that the Management Board and the Director have different parts than the workarounds set out in this law. "A special law needs to be passed again, and that is the essence. In Article 15(1) of this proposal, the law refers to the Management Board, which adopts regulations and other general acts of the public agency other than the Regulations, etc. This is a fully disputed member, as well as members of 16 and 17, not to mention that. What is the view of the SRS is that we are against the establishment of agencies, that agencies, in our opinion, cannot do well, that there is an increase in administration, and that this way the citizens of Serbia will not live better. You said in the campaign that Serbian citizens would live much better and that you would solve this area in a different way than you gave it, let's say, in a bill of this law, which is not good for Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12710	The word has a National MP, Dragoslav Milkovic, and let the MP Slobodan Vukkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12711	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party is against the establishment of various agencies, directorates and funds and is against the adoption of law on public agencies. I take the floor, but I immediately declare that I will not express my anger at any remark that I am insufficiently competent to deal with this very complex issue. Why am I taking my word for it? By forming agencies, you're going back 20 years, and that's the time of the SIZ formation. My peers, people older than me and those who are not much younger know that during one period of existence, our self-government socialist state lived with abbreviations: ZUR, SOUR,OUR, OOUR, IZ, SIZ, MZ. All of this survives only the local community. And these ours and the sizo organizations in the sphere of economics, i.e. income availability, have failed, we remain "double naked", I cannot rhyme, it would fit perfectly. You should remember, as soon as the reconstruction of the ZUR and the creation of the Siszovian and the protest organizations began, the seed seeds from which the divisions of the clerks came out began. The knowledge of the ZUR and the OUR and the SIZ organization of work and life has been defended by dissertations and acquired doctorates. The industry was most profitable by the wood industry that produced office furniture, and the leather and shoes made by the active purse, and the cosmetics made by the producers of roses and nail polishes – an active purse for newly selected directors, and roses and polish for secretaries and other persons who multiplied at a rate greater than the speed of multiplying rodents. And then it all went in the manner of the rodents' lives, to eat until they were hungry. Why not, when it's all someone else's anyway, i.e. Socially. And now we're where we are. You think our rescue is on the run to Europe. Well, gentlemen, that's at least part of my competence to take my word for it. I have no doubt about the fair intentions of the author of the bill on public agencies. I don't doubt the pro-European orientation of both authors and authors who agree with the authors. Yet, such an extensive and serious explanation has not convinced me of the justification of this law at this time of our existence. Indirectly, in some cases and quite directly, it is recognised that there is a disease in the form of running to satisfy the day-to-day political interests. Page 3 Reasons: "... This comes to meet the need for independent regulation, i.e. Management of some areas that are independent of the short-term political claims made by the government and the ministries.... ". Are the agencies a cure? At the current stage of our development, they're not. Well, gentlemen, if we're on world rankings high on corruption, should we expect something fair to end at the present level of our general condition? It is a vain claim on page 4 of the reasoning: "The public agency satisfies the general, not the private interest," when we know that the Maheri here, and from Madagascar and Seattle, will use all of this for the most private interest. This country just can't stop them right now. We're too sick. Well, people, we know in advance, the agency services will be filled with wives, swastikas, brothers, cousins, party activists and electronic equipment. It will be a new estrangement of power, like the former SIZs, because it will have the means to bribe the Holy Sava. So let's not at least help him by giving him a legal basis in the form of public agencies laws. Do we need new divisions of officials, while Mr Dinkic preaches the rationalization of the state administration? Gentlemen assistant ministers, advisors and associates, it should not be an honor for you to write laws, and to write manuals for the application of these laws after their adoption and, of course, to surrender. Life won't stop if we don't stop at least for a better moment. Let's postpone the adoption of the law on public agencies. I'm asking the Minister to explain to me what a state is that increases the number of officials in the state's bodies and fires the workers. Chains and locks remain.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12712	The People's MP Slobodan Vukovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Paja Momchilov be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12713	Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that agencies can lead to more efficient work of the state administration and some regulation. This shows the experience of the European Union and there are no choirs. But what it will be, it depends on the rules, how they are established and how they are laid down in the law. We suffer from some things called one name and then we feel that we have entered Europe. We have agencies, and what they are, what their contents are, and how they're regulated, we're not sure we did the best. We can easily achieve with the agencies of the European institution, and we can easily fall into pure Obrenovic's bureaucratic red tape and bureaucracy. On the other hand, I'm concerned, as a lawyer, for several days sitting here, following and reading the laws that we're being proposed, that these laws are loose, inconsistencies and contradictory. You never know what the legislator was actually trying to achieve, so I'm going to give you an example, just about this law. You have here the authority of the agency to receive gifts from sponsors and donors and even in two places in the law talk about it, in Articles 6 and 53. The Agency shall have the right and the duty to carry out administrative proceedings, and the administrative procedure under this law shall not be authorised to conduct a administrative dispute. How will an agency that gets a rich sponsor a rich reward, a rich donation, and now she has to apply some objective, harsh law in the public interest? He won't do it. Why should we expect that? There's no administrative dispute against it. On the other hand, you have a desire for the agency to be independent, so it is said that agencies are set up for some jobs where no permanent and direct political supervision is required. Then what kind of surveillance is required? Dissipated and circumstantial. How missing surveillance, when article 53 states that the government and this state are bound by the Agency's obligations. Then why the missing surveillance? If it's said indirectly, by which authority does the government control the agency? There is no organ designated as an organ through which the Government controls in an indirect manner. The ministry suspends the agency's regulations and controls, article 44 of the law, and on the other hand it is said not to do so in a permanent manner, but in a missing and indirect manner, and not to be said to be indirect. It's a great contradiction. Now comes Article 4 which says that the government cannot direct the work of a public agency, or coordinate it with the work of the authorities of the state administration. Why not coordinate it with the work of the state administration? I hope he doesn't want to bring him into college with the work of the state administration. For the love of showing that the agencies are independent, this member is given, and on the other hand article 44 says - we control you directly, we control your regulations, but in a missing and indirect way, but you don't say how it is done. Then what happens? It says that the agencies will be very dependent on the government, that the government will cover itself with the Agency's independence, that they will call any agency director or board president and tell him, as has already happened - are you normal, what are you doing? No, you can't do that. The laws must be clear, certain, precise, where we are independent, where the agency is independent, where it is dependent, who is in control, how, in what way etc. If we really want control, then let's put it in Parliament's jurisdiction and do it the way the Slovenians did for the boards of directors and their agencies. There it takes two thirds of the congregation to agree to bring down a board of directors once appointed. That's what agencies should do. Let the government complain to this assembly, if it wants an independent agency, that this agency is not doing its job properly, and this assembly will decide whether that agency should change, its leadership, its directorship, or not, but with a two-thirds majority, so we provide it with some independence. This is how we got one law that "no fish, no girl" and allows for various possibilities from which we may be able to predict 100 at this moment, and 1000 or countless cannot predict at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12714	The messenger of the people is Paja Momcilov, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Vojislav Milajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12715	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Presidency, you remind me of something I qualified earlier, but one MP from your party warned me that I was quite sharp. Now I'm going to avoid that edge of my own, because I greatly appreciate that man in your ranks. Here, now that you're calling me, I can't help but answer you in a certain way. We are now in the early hours of the morning and are discussing one system law, as defined by the promoter. I think in that letter that we received, which is a very warm letter from all of us from the President of the Assembly, and you all know it, where it's said to apologize to our families because we worked here at night, what we did over the weekend, and it's not going to happen anymore. Now I doubt we'll be working on Friday, and I can see we're working at night. In order not to be rude, I find that incorrect. Someone will say, "Go to the point." First, it's incorrect for mental-hygienic reasons. Why? The first and primary reason is that the human brain is so programmed that it can withstand eight hours of intellectual labor. We discussed an important law from 10 to 18 hours, we had a debate about amendments, about family law. It's for the capacity of a normal human brain and too much. What happens if we keep going? Since some of us here have heroized that it's nothing, that we can endure as much as you want, this is happening: a fall in concentration, and then there's a misjudgment and then a mistake in doing it, which leads to the unquality work of this assembly. It's nighttime and it's scheduled for rest, you should know, people. All normal institutions work day and day. The assembly should be a normal institution and work eight hours, when it comes to intellectual affairs. Of course, I don't argue that if you read the newspaper, if you passively fill the quorum, then you can do more work. Then he can, for God's sake, last more than 24 hours. Now let's get back to this law of ours. The SRS has made it clear that we will not vote for this law. We think it's an absurd law. Unnecessary duplication of jurisdiction between the agency and the administration is expensive for a country in transition. That's why we don't want to vote for this ridiculous law. What's the point, what are the motives of the promoter? I'll be free to present some of the invoices I think are relevant. First, it wants to bring down existing institutions and state systems. You have the Agency for Medicinal Products. It's a typical example. The Agency is not, and the Department of Medicine is not in the ministry, and the rich pharmaceutical institute has been destroyed and there is no institute that deals with the profession and science. What do you have today? He told his colleague there were agencies in England. But the English drug agency is controlled by the ministry. Go ahead, the US Medicines Agency (FDA) is under strict control by the US government and the health minister, and the budget is prescribed by Bush. Say it from here, for the real truth. Such a degree of deregulation of the state does not know modern countries in Europe. There's no such thing. You're talking about European laws now. These are not European laws at all. The European Union does not interfere with anyone's legislation. The EU allows every country to regulate all areas of social life in its own way, as it suits them. They need principles and directives to be respected. So don't talk about getting into Europe with this. By deregulation like this, which doesn't exist anywhere in the world, don't let us enter Europe either. Thank you for your offers. Furthermore, this is where the legal and legislative system is being destroyed. If you start with the Constitution, what is the contents of the Constitution - human rights and jurisdiction. You're always talking about changing the Constitution. Well, change it, and then change the jurisdiction in that constitution and then give that agency the authority you want to give. What do you want? You want to transfer the administrative procedure to public service, you want to deregulate the state. You're afraid of politics. What's politics, something dishonest? Let's end the political parties, if that's unfair. If the government is incompetent, someone better quality to do these jobs - let's end the government. That's what you want. It is the ultimate goal of abolishing the administration, of abolishing the ministries. What do we get? We'll get this country called Serbia-Montenegro. You want the council of ministers, that's the ultimate goal. Is that what Serbia needs right now? No, I don't. The real state, a serious state, suffers pressure from multinational companies, to deregulate and liberalise legislation, but resists and does not agree to it. It's the drug agency I was talking about, the English, French, German and American, that's what I'm talking about. Let me tell you something else about the Drug Agency. We spoke nicely to you in June of last year - do not give the deadline in October for the Agency to start working and to work on legislation. In October, the agency didn't have a director, you named him a week later, and the board of directors. And today, the agency has no systematization, no price list on which it works. That agency, which has been regulating drugs since October, hasn't done it, because there's no price list, no job we've authorized it to do. What do we have now? We have a legal interface, we have foreign companies and an illegal drug market right now. They say those who understand very well that at present there is a minimum of 20% of illegal drugs on this market. Gentlemen, these are your agencies. Let's leave this agency, so you don't say I caught this agency, even though it's a very important agency. Human rights is a right to health. The drugs support that health, but they can also endanger it. You transferred this to your public service agency and you said it was a public service, that it was doing what was done there. That's exactly what's going on. What's going on out there? The passage of foreign companies is enabled, they run on our market and do what they do. Since I have to leave time and some of my colleagues to say some important things, I'd just end up being absolutely against this. This isn't progress, this is backwards, and it's one big backward. You're degulating our country. The real truth is that with this legislative deregulatory, that you wanted to go to Europe, to apply standards, 80% of all EU standards could already be implemented. You don't do it, you distract the people and you talk about entering Europe with this legislation. That's not true. Now this accession plan, it will be your alibi for further corruption and crime, and that will justify everything you've done so far, the ones that have worked. Therefore, Serbian radicals are against this law. We invite everyone else to be against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12716	The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12717	Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a draft law on public agencies, which should regulate the establishment and work of public agencies, which should essentially replace the work of the authorities of the state administration and the executive authorities. If we start with Article 1 of this bill, which regulates the concept of a public agency, where a definition of what a public agency is and what kind of business it is doing, we will see that it does three kinds of jobs: development, professional and regulatory jobs. The first member's position is already delegated, and it says: "Special law can, according to the public agency's purpose, regulate certain issues of the public agency's position differently from this law. "It's just amazing that in the first article, the whole law is being devised. In the first position, the definition of public agencies' jobs is given, in order to define it in the second position and leave it to specific laws that will regulate the agency in a different way. Article 2 regulates the conditions for the establishment of a public agency: "A public agency is established if development, professional and regulatory affairs do not require permanent and direct political supervision... ". It's just amazing that the government has absolutely no political influence on the work of those agencies that it sets up. The question arises – who will have influence, then who will exercise political influence and political control over the work of these agencies if they do not have a founder? The jobs that these public agencies will primarily affect the jurisdiction of the state administration, and it is unclear which jobs will be done by the state administration and by the public agency. Article 3 provides that the public agency may be entrusted with the following tasks of the state administration: the adoption of rules for the enforcement of laws and other general acts of the National Assembly and the Government. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides that sublaws, acts regulating the application of the law, can only be passed by government and administrative authorities. Here, the authority for the adoption of sublegal acts, which was in the government's jurisdiction, prescribed by the Constitution of Serbia, is transferred to agencies. Under points 2 and 3: solving in the first degree administrative matters and issuing public documents and keeping records. It was an exclusive jurisdiction of the administration, and I don't know why it would be entrusted to public agencies and double the whole deal. Article 4 provides for the independence of a public agency, where the government is said to be unable to direct the work of a public agency, or to coordinate it with the work of the authorities of the state administration. It is simply amazing that such a provision is in the bill, that there is no consistency between the work of the authorities of the state administration and the public agencies, but that it is left to the agencies to work independently, I do not know on what and how. Article 8 stipulates that the right of founders is being exercised by the government on behalf of the Republic of Serbia. It would be normal, and everywhere in the world, it's normal for one who's the founder to coordinate the work and lead the policy of those bodies that he's setting up. Article 6 provides for the financing of public agencies. The public agency is financed from the price paid by users of services, gifts, contributions from sponsors (sponsors), the budget of the Republic of Serbia and other contributions and revenues. It is amazing that a government-founding body can be financed from donations and sponsorship. What are the motives of donors and sponsors to invest in agencies? It can only be the personal interests of individuals or legal persons who would invest in agencies. There is no other motive, but only a personal interest that would exist behind it. The only logical source of funding from the agency could be from the Republic of Serbia's budget, but the problem is that it will increase the costs of the state and double the functions, and by double the functions between the state administration and public agencies must automatically increase the costs of the state. As far as the authorities provided for by this law are concerned, it declares the existence of two bodies, the board of directors and directors. However, there is no supervision at all, there is no authority to oversee the work of the agencies, and attitude 2 provides again for the possibility that special legislation can be laid down by other agencies. So, everything can go one way or the other, it's been left to introduce other agencies by special laws. And it is unclear why the standards provided for by the basic law on the establishment of public agencies are not applied. Why are special laws allowed to derivate the provisions of this law. The principle of Roman law - that a special law derogates a special law, could not be applied here. This principle can be applied in those social relations in which will autonomy exists, where there is a relationship between legal entities and participants in certain social relations, where these social relations depend on will autonomy. There should be imperial norms here that precisely determine the means of funding, the authorities that should have agencies, the organisational structure, the jobs that these agencies would do and should not be allowed to set specific laws by different bodies of the agency, because there would be a colourful formation of various agencies that resemble everything and everything. Finally, the law sought to avoid the possibility of forming agencies through regulations, which was in the previous period of DOS rule, and moved on to legislation, to be the one to regulate the formation of public agencies. However, it is not in the form in which the agencies will be established, but in who will be the founder of those agencies. It is a much better option for the Assembly to be the founder of these agencies and for the Assembly to be the one to exercise control and control over the work of agencies, not the Government, especially by giving up its political influence and control over the work of those agencies. As for the approximation of Europe only with legal regulation and the harmonisation of legal rules with EU rules and the adoption of EU standards, it does not go so easily. I would remind you that in 1993 a Copenhagen summit was held, where the groups of conditions needed to become an EU member were defined. These are groups of conditions concerning the legal, political and economic conditions that a country needs to meet. Legal conditions can be relatively easily met. It's a harmonisation of legal regulations. As far as political conditions are concerned, these are the conditions concerning national minorities, human rights. The third group of conditions, which will be very difficult to meet, are conditions concerning the economy and cannot be done in a short period of time, as you wish to present to this people and to say that in a few years you will meet the conditions for EU accession. It is a very long road to the EU, precisely because of these economic conditions, which, unfortunately, we will not be able to meet for many years.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12718	The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12719	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as I've learned from the press, the law on public agencies is part of the State Administration Reform Strategy. Unfortunately, we MPs have not had the opportunity to get to know neither the reason for this reform of the state administration, nor the state administration strategy itself, nor the action plan that follows that strategy. If we had the opportunity to get acquainted with these documents, there would probably be less misunderstanding between, above all, the SRS and the ministry. Maybe we'd be less critical, maybe we'd recognize the vision the Ministry had in passing the bill. We are left to experience this law, first of all, as a change in form, and not as a change in the work of the state administration that we have today. In any case, the SRS, like all other parties, thinks we should go to the depoliticalization of the state administration, that we need a more professional state administration, more rational. But what's problematic, on our part, is decentralisation, because we still don't think there are conditions for decentralisation itself, that we still don't have public officials, employees who are responsible for their obligations; so that personal responsibility isn't at that level that would guarantee that by decentralisation we're going to get one better quality state administration. Also, I don't think government employees are professional enough, that there's not enough business ethics, personal morality among public officials, that there's too much personal interest, egoism and narrowness, and that's why we have to question possible decentralisation, that we suspect that this would mean something better for our state administration. If the transition to the agencies could solve all the problems of the state administration, it would be a relatively simple solution and surely we would all advocate it. I doubt it's possible such a simple solution. To get to a quality staff that has to carry the state administration we need time, it takes years, and it takes us to go slowly into that decentralisation, step by step, as are our options. When it comes to depoliticisation, I don't think this bill has made the Ministry and the Government consistent. True, Article 4 guarantees independence in the work of all agencies that will eventually be established. Then, in Articles 16, 24, 31 and 41, we have the government's involvement in the appointment of boards, directors, the resolution of these same directors, the appointment of officials, and even the government goes so far as to give consent to acts relating to the rights, obligations and responsibilities of employees. If the government influences all the authorities of these agencies, there is no talk of depoliticalisation, and we need depolitisation as well. When it comes to rationalization, only the introduction of agencies will certainly mean a greater burden for our economy, which is quite weak, and for all citizens. The agencies cost money. Our personal consumption is too much, i.e. public consumption, above all, and within it personal consumption. It also increases with this bill of law and a series of laws that we have had the opportunity to adopt in the past months; it is constantly growing and seriously threatening to bring our economy into even bigger problems anyway. What does the government get with this law? I think he's getting one fictitious budget discharge. We will have the chance that the finance minister will probably boast that he cut the budget, we may have a reduction of employees in the authorities of the state administration for those famous 10%, as promised to us, but that's why we'll see these people within the agencies, so that people would call it "supplying from hollow to empty". All that doesn't solve our problem. The government will be able to transfer responsibility to the agencies, but I think it is much more important for us to deal with the essence, not form, and it certainly won't solve many problems for Serbian citizens. The misery, poverty and despair that are now ruling in Serbia will not change through the bill's proposal, due to all these listed shortcomings and inconsistencies that we have recognized in the bill's proposal. I believe that the Serbian Radical Party cannot vote for this law and will continue to fight against the increase of the state administration, because it directly affects the standard of citizens and the state of our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12720	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Let the MP Branislav Rankic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12721	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an old Chinese proverb says, "It's easy to open a store, but it's hard to keep it open." You're wondering if it has anything to do with it? There is, when we voted to work extendedly there were many more of us, we now had a nice read with the papers, and some worked. When someone here was talking about agencies, I thought it was our own ridiculous need, and at one point I was angry at all the calls of this assembly, as well as all the governments and ministers who were, why we didn't introduce and set up these agencies before, so we could live much better than we are now. But that's not true, and that's not the point. One of our MPs, Branko Rankovic, once said – this law is a little good, a little bad. For some of the previous ones, this one is not good at all, by apologizing to the Minister for this finding, if nothing else, we appreciate his invested work in the making of this law, and his will and patience to attend to the end and not to leave this session, as his specific colleagues do, shows that he needs to have a different relationship with him. The argument that has contributed to these agencies is unacceptable to us. One reason, he says, is the depolitisation of a public agency. So far it has been established, I do not know the exact number of agencies, but I am absolutely certain and from this place I am responsible for saying that none of these agencies are employed by someone who is a member of the Serbian Radical Party, not because he did not need a job, but because they are political agencies, which reflect the structure of their employees' majority, or government. Once on the agenda of the Law of Introducing Trustees, we said that it must not be a person belonging to a particular political party. However, in that place was placed a man who was a prominent member of a party and now I see him at a restaurant, of course at lunch, it doesn't matter, with colleagues from his party. So, depolitization agencies, that's a story that's not even true and true. This law has a lot of contradictions and contradictions between members and members. Of course, I have no intention of commenting on all these members, because I want to be brief, to have more of my colleagues speak, and also to bring this session to an end. It's said the agency is independent, I don't only know who it's independent of. It is necessary to connect a little with Article 6, where it is said who provides for the Agency's work, whether it is in this order provided for in Article 6 or perhaps from the Republic of Serbia's budget it should have been put first, so that we would not have thought of it, in order to give this situation a little honesty. But it doesn't matter, she can't be independent anyway and she's not independent of the government and she shouldn't be. What are these agencies being introduced for? I've been trying to analyze, to think a little bit, whether because of the government's ineffectiveness, so we're trying this way to remove some weaknesses in the government itself, or not, I don't know. I have to tell you, I've had a chance to contact the head of the cabinet of a minister once 27 times. I never got a chance to answer the phone, and they always told me -- she'll answer you, leave a phone number. I'm not sure tomorrow when these agencies are introduced, because I'm guessing that a large number of ministry workers will be translated into these agencies, and there's no savings and there's no irrational employment. As for the singer Rambo Amadeus, I know that in May or June, when we adopted the Law on National Corporations, he was thrilled, as were most young people who thought their housing problems would be solved. That is what is said, that was the essence of the reasoning of that law, and we know that nothing fundamental about this matter has been done and has not been resolved until today. I find the law interesting and a member of the 13th to say, "The public agencies are the board of directors and directors. It can be determined by special law that the public agency has other authorities, entirely other bodies or that the Management Board and the Director have a different workaround than the workaround set out in this law. "This member denies the existence of a complete law. Someone explained and said, and even the minister, that by this law we just want to sort things out, or agencies that already exist, and here in this article we say that special law can make everything different. Well, we could have left those laws and those agencies that now exist to cope and do as they have so far, and the maintenance of these agencies and employees in them Serbian citizens will feel through tax arrests and even greater obligations that will be imposed on them.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12722	The People's Messenger Branislav Rankic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people prepare Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12723	Ladies and gentlemen, when the first member of this law is read, every MP has to wonder why the law. In the first position, we talk about what is a public agency, why it is established, and in the second position it is said: "A special law can, according to the public agency's purpose, regulate certain issues of the public agency's position differently from this law. "Why, then, this law, when can all agencies be regulated by other laws? When it comes to the conditions for the establishment of agencies, Article 2 states that one of the conditions should be that the Agency should be able to do some of the tasks better and more effectively than the state administration's authority. Immediately down in Article 4, the government is said to be unable to direct the work of a public agency, or to coordinate it with the work of the authorities of the state administration. How will the government know that the agency can do jobs at all better than the authorities of the state administration if it does not coordinate work and influence how the agency will work or otherwise not verify how the agency works? If the members were contradictory and the law was losing purpose, here's an example. and Article 13, when it comes to public agencies. Article 13 of the first position states that public agency bodies are the board of directors and directors. Immediately thereafter, it is said that a special law can determine that the public agency has some other organs, that there are no bodies prescribed under Article 1, or that these authorities may have different parts of the workarounds set out in this law. In general, the whole law is made so that in one position it is declared to be a right, and already in the next it is taken away or completely invalidated the purpose of writing the first attitude. I'll go around commenting on some members for the sake of time, but it's an absurd situation here where you talk, when you appoint a director, about an election procedure. All this stuff you wrote in article 27 as an election procedure, it's actually your terms of competition. There is no choice here, because of those who meet the conditions prescribed by the competition, the founder will appoint the director. Do you interfere, Minister, the concept of appointment and choice, I don't understand, but simply in this law it shouldn't and should not stand in this way. You also said this law should achieve demystification of agency work. When it comes to the public work of the public agency you have four points and at no point is the public of work, but internal relations are arranged: client, government, founder and agency. Only point 3) is prescribed that they are obliged to communicate the information provided by the regulations as information of public importance. The biggest disaster this law will produce is contained in the chapter IX - Public agencies that establish autonomous provinces and units of local self-government. During the establishment of one agency, through another law, I said that a student accommodation agency was established in Bora. Everyone in Bor knows that the Bor Student House has a huge number of vacancies, that every student who comes to Bor on the side has to choose even the floor and the room in which he will live, but simply someone in the local self-government has come to think that there can be one number of coalition partners to hire and set up such an agency, which has no purpose at all. I will comment very briefly on some of the things you have given in your reasoning, and this is particularly true of the reasons for the law, where you said it is obvious that the constitutional arrangement of the state administration in the Republic of Serbia is characterized by exceptional cruelty. If that's the case, then I don't know how, when it's characterized by such cruelty, you've already managed to establish this number of agencies. If that were not true, here, you yourself said at the end of it – that agencies would be fully founded in Serbia's legal order. So, did you make a mistake in explaining this or did you make a mistake in the end, or did someone else write this to you, but the law is a lot of contradictions. Also, one of the great absurdities is in the reasoning of the law, where in explaining the basic legal institutes and individual solutions you say – discharging the authorities of the state administration should, firstly, highlight (time and improve) the most important and essential tasks of the state administration's body: participation in government policymaking, etc. If you're making agencies shape government policy, then this is a failure for the social system in Serbia. I guess it's quite the opposite, I guess the government should form a policy and coordinate the work of the agency according to the policy that the government has developed. I can't believe you did this consciously, there must be some mistake. But there are too many mistakes, so I have to mention at least two more. Here's when you state what conditions are needed to set up an agency. The first condition is that the agency is established in a relatively autonomous social area. Give me a social area that's not autonomous. Every social area that is not autonomous falls under another social area. I guess social areas, as soon as they're called areas, are autonomous in themselves. According to yours, any social area can meet the conditions for the establishment of an agency. The second condition to be met is that the social area in which the agency should operate provides sufficient space for independent and independent decision-making, for the development and management of its own initiative and for the development of the needs of public agency users. Is there any social area that doesn't provide wide enough space? No, it's just that the area doesn't have one. I'm just going to briefly comment on one thing at the very end of the law, and that's next. You said, in financing, that the extra funds that the agency makes can go to the government of the Republic of Serbia's budget. However, it is quite unclear how the agency can make extra income, if you have said that the agency is not an economic operator, does not generate income and charges services just as much as their economic price. That income can't be made, and if it does, from donations... No business agency will give donations, but you'll have to act like beggars and beg for donations, embarrassing the whole country for budget donations, not these agencies you're setting up.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12724	The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Branislav Stevanovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12725	Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to public agencies, it is a well-known view of the SRS, which is that agencies are unnecessary, unnecessary and demanding large material and financial resources, mostly in the Republic of Serbia's budget. All the jobs and obligations you've given agencies used to run departments or administrations at individual ministries, and that's a success. By detachment from the ministry, the ministry is in some ways now reducing the work cycle. The agencies shall be left alone in the performance of the regulation of the intended tasks. This isolation actually means that in most cases agencies can do whatever they want, although this law provides for some monitoring and control measures. So the creation of agencies suddenly creates a need for a large number of new jobs. A new work space is needed, so the funds that need to be equipped with the Agency's facilities etc. When all the jobs are collected by agencies at Serbia level, plus the cost of maintaining the facilities, this leads to huge expenditure on the Republic of Serbia's budget, and the effect is almost nothing. In fact, in return, what are the agencies offering to the state of Serbia, to the citizens and to our economy? One number of agencies is simply racing where they'll spend state money sooner. This applies to those agencies that, under Article 35, are doing so-called. Development, professional and regulatory affairs, and at the end of the discussion, I will show you in the case of the Recycling Agency how to waste taxpayers' money in vain. A number of agencies are simply racing where they will rather spend state money in the maintenance of various symposiums, seminars, round tables, usually at exclusive tourist resorts in Serbia. All kinds of studies and labs, well-paid to those who have been licensed, collecting dust in the basement archives, and yet the people are paying for it. As state money is being spent on individual NGOs working directly against our country, funds are also being spent on a number of agencies. Someone will normally transfer to radicals – so is the West, as it says in EU legislation, but their agencies will certainly not sell factories for 3 euros or destroy businesses such as "Yugormedia" etc. That's the kind of thing in the West that's a big deal, and that's what prisons are for. Therefore, the public agency is formed by the Government and as the founder trusts the Agency with the affairs of the state administration: the issue of public documents, as well as the adoption of regulations for the enforcement of laws and other acts of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Government. Now we need to ask ourselves how much this makes sense for a little while, and what you wrote in Article 3, if we compare it to Article 4, which is exactly the opposite, so the independence of a public agency. This is even in the position of 2nd of this article to be seen and confirmed. It says: "The government cannot direct the work of a public agency, nor coordinate it with the work of the authorities of the state administration. "What will they comply with, with what regulations? This is starting to look like a mild anarchy to me. As the government imagined the agencies were functioning, it's really hard to understand. It seems to be the most accurate definition – I control you, do what you want. Also, one legal solution in Article 10 in attitude 3 is simply a point of view. You have predicted, Mr. Minister, that gifts and contributions from the domestic or foreign (and I underline this) legal and natural persons can be used for the purpose of establishing the agency. You're bringing strangers back where you shouldn't. Thus, in the past bill of law of this agenda, you have been able to adopt Serbian children, so why not influence the work of agencies that are interesting to them. In this way, we acknowledge how unable we ourselves are to form agencies to do government work. Item 3 in Article 10 above all resembles an impoverished cry for someone to literally share charity with our agencies. With what interest would a foreign person give financial resources to the Serbian agency? Explain to me, please, who might be sponsoring the business registers agency. And if it were the privatisation agency, I could understand, there's obviously some kind of hunter in the muddy West and how it can be exploited, as it already is. That story that's going through this law on the independent work of the agency, it's just pro-forme. Nearly 20 members of this bill directly exercise the supervision of the founders, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia, of the work and bodies of the public agency. You have that in Articles 10, 11, 15, 44, etc. Article 23 refers to the obligations of the Director of the Agency. Now let me ask you, Mr. Minister, has anyone, even if it was the director of the agency, been responsible for the failures and catastrophic errors in the work of the agency, errors that cost the state of Serbia dearly? Did anyone also answer for the Privatisation Agency, when we all know it appeared on dozens of cases where the agency made purchase contracts to damage the employees and property of this state. Many of the obligations of the contract that the customers did not meet were consciously ignored, again at the expense of the state and the workers. Did anyone answer? Are these agency workers untouchable masters of the fate of ordinary people? The damage done by the agencies by their operations, under Article 53, lies with the agencies themselves, i.e. the state of Serbia. Imagine the damage that individual agencies have done with their own actions; they are paid by the state to work, the country pays them the damage they have done to citizens, i.e. the property – double damage. This bill also provides for the establishment of public agencies for the territory of the AP, i.e. local self-government, in the same archaic as for the territory of the entire Republic. However, the impoverished municipal budgets will have another unnecessary ballast called public agencies, in any case suitable for hiring party activists at local level. In the case of a number of companies, it can be seen that public agencies are in a fatal state. Finally, just to show you on the case of the Recycling Agency: in the 2003 report, one study was expensively paid, it was done by the company AD "Protection of Work", and it was about waste oil management. That company only made a famous affair after half a year with waste oil from the cement factory. This shows the credibility of those companies that the agencies choose and how expensive they pay for their services, again with the funds and money of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12726	The People's MP Branislav Stevanovic has the word, and let Natasa Jovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12727	Ladies and gentlemen, many times it's been said that we MPs from the SRS from this pay phone have been gallantly criticizing many of the agencies that have been established so far. One example is also the Energy Act, where we have three agencies. We believe that these are excess institutions and are more used for hiring party friends, families, money laundering. It's the basic activity of all these agencies that work. I would also like to say that we would support the establishment of agencies if we knew that the number of employees in the ministries would be reduced. But that way, by setting up agencies, we just pile up these bureaucratic apparatus, double it, and, therefore, we don't really see any big profit from setting up agencies. In particular, when it comes to the independence of public agencies, it must be recognised that public agencies have no independence. One example is the Privatisation Agency, where Mr. Cvetkovic was director of the Agency and was absolutely in direct contact with Mr. Vlahovic, so many workers lost their jobs because of those people who traded more in their personal interest than in the interests of the people and the state. For that, of course, no one was responsible, no one was arrested. In particular, Vlahovic himself has repeatedly said that he is the only minister from countries in the transition that has not been arrested; and it should have been long ago, that we are in power certainly to do so. Also, the financing of public agencies – again, I cite the example of the Privatisation Agency, because we know that the main source of revenue for funding agencies is actually users of services, and these are customers, whether our domestic tycoons or abroad, they are mainly the main finances of that Privatisation Agency. Since I am a member of the Privatisation Committee, I have heard from some sources that Mrs Prokopijevic is receiving parties for 30,000 euros and that is a ticket to agree on a purchase contract. Setting a director is an absolutely dead letter on paper. It is known how it works – the party route, and it is the only way to choose the company's director. Also, I would like to say that one of the main actions is certainly hiring party friends, family and others and that no one has absolutely any particular purpose. I'd like to propose to you, Mr. Minister, a special agency, let's say it's an agency for the sale of Serbian giants. I suggest that the director of this agency be Javier Solana, and the chairman of the board of directors be Carla del Ponte. Members would be Boris Tadic, Vuk Draskovic, Miroljub Labus, Rasim Ljajic and Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12728	My friend, would you be so kind as to focus a little on the discussion? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12729	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have the impression that this law is unacceptable to you and that you cannot agree alone with a number of provisions and with what he predicts. You, as a lawyer and as a university professor, are hardly able to say for this law that it has a systemic character. Getting ready for this item of the agenda I was reminded of, and you gave some object, the beginning of the establishment of agencies in Serbia and the fact that you have three systemically different types of agencies, and one law, which, in the folk jargon, has been built. If I read you the first sentence in the explanation, you will see that I am right, as well as the honourable fellow Members of the People who are willing to listen to all this at 01:30. For those of us, who, or some, have given in to the concentration, this is a completely unsatisfactory argument that has not been shown so far, nor has it appeared in some reasoning of the legal text. He says, in addition to constitutional grounds for law-making, the reasons for law-making: "The development of the administration and the expansion of its businesses require the need to create new, new jobs of tailored status forms that are able to carry out new jobs" If one of you can understand what this sentence means, both at 10am and at 01:30, I give him credit, but I think this is really unacceptable because essentially the law does not bring anything new, except that you want something that came across in a very negative public opinion to legalize in this way. He just took my colleague's exclusive right to mention the first among the culprits – Aleksandar Vlahovic, former Minister of Industry and Privatisation, but I will go back and remind you of someone named Bozidar Djelic. So that's the man who came to Serbia in 2001, that's when he began to minister, started through the law package in April 2001 to promote our agencies as such. Then those incredible dossic progressions multiplied. Therefore, the public reaction was increasingly negative, and what today is the biggest pain in Serbia is the existence of the Agency for Business and Privatisation, and also – not at all important for its "means", because it does cause huge damage to health employees and, above all, to citizens who are affected by it because they are taxpayers and are therefore a full budget – the Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Resources. The level, i.e. the degree of crime that has been discovered so far, the money laundering and all that the officials have done, in fact those who, by my humble belief, will not come under the influence of the Law on conflict of interest in the performance of public functions, is something that has indeed been unrecorded in Serbia in the last decade. When those who are sick, which are mostly workers who have been put out of work in the privatisation process, they turn to the Privatisation Agency (because most often the MPs from this conference had meetings with people from that agency), they have come to an incredible degree of passion, pride and misunderstanding and above all their interpretation. That they're right, that nothing can go back to the beginning, that they can't influence the further course of privatisation. And then there's the question of why agencies are being set up and what's their purpose. A month ago, slightly less, Minister Velimir Ilic told us about the Law on Postage Services. My fellow Members, I must remind you that one agency has been established here and that, with one amendment, behold, miracles, the salary of the director of the agency, the chairman of the board of directors and board members has been reduced by 20 percent, and the amount has been incredible and even much greater than this inappropriate parliamentary salary that you have assigned to yourself and thus shown how you treat today's economic and social situation in the country. I didn't need to tell you just this sentence to get out of sleep, you who may have fallen asleep, and to remind you that workers in Serbia who are looking for a job, and today over a million, unfortunately, cannot accept that in this way, through three types of agencies, they are instituting. First of all, because it is not true, as it stands in a member of the law that has been proposed to us and which I am sure cannot safely come across from the minister, that the public agency is doing development and professional work, in agreement with its establishment, first because we know that this year 12m euros have been allocated to finance all the agencies so far. If this progress continues, as one colleague here said, we need dozens more agencies, then the amount for the next financial year may rise to incredible two, three or five billion dinars. To what they did and what they did, especially the Agency for the Encouragement of Entrepreneurship, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, I told you in the case of the Privatisation Agency – to improve the general economic environment. Who and what is the Agency today serving as the Agency for Health and Transport of Health Equipment and Medicinal Products? It is today the most suitable ground for execution and for crime of the worst possible species. Health workers across Serbia know that's the case. Just a few of the examples that your colleague Pai Momchilov told you here today. Do you think, if some of you, but now it turns out to be just a declaration, were critics of the previous DOS government, that these laws lead us to a better future and create the possibility that this country is going through progress and that in all segments of social life that the agencies are intended to make some progress? We don't think that's the case. The crowded functions, directors, boards of directors and, of course, all that the National Assembly is appointing, as the highest legislative body, not only is it not a good path, but it is completely unnecessary. As Mr. Alexander Vukic said, you will not be able to control these people who are going to do and spend budgets (again, over a billion dinars, or 12m euros) on the basis of last year's adopted Law on conflict of interest in public functions, or help anyone in Serbia today who needs this assistance most. Wasn't it normal to give up such a "service" that is being established or established by agencies, and to shift 12m euros to those who today in Serbia need the most help: for health, social protection, for the assistance of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, for all of what you are asking today for Serbian citizens, for education, for health care. What has been done today and what we have in Serbia today will be corrected by not one move of feathers, but by putting aside the power and the law and the correction through all the laws where these agencies exist. It's going to happen very soon. In the next financial year 2006, the government of Serbian radicals, and possibly one of its coalition partners, if needed, will not provide for funds in the budget, not a single dinar, let alone a billion, for various agencies legalized by this law. We will remove them all and thus create the possibility for the ministries responsible for the jobs for which they are established to perform their duties, without citizens separating from the hard-earned money in the budget to finance these and some others, don't give God new, agencies.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12730	I find the SRS parliamentary group no longer has time to discuss in principle. Since the amendments are going, I assume you'll use your right to report for the amendment, and then you can say what you meant in these few minutes, as much as you asked for the word. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a search of the bill, in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12731	Ladies and gentlemen, until last night I was very concerned because I didn't know the answer to the question why these so far formed agencies don't work at all or, if they do work at all, do it wrong and wrong. Then Minister Lonchar took the stone off my heart and said, "The framework for the future work of all agencies is this bill." If that's the case, let's not make any particular questions about the adoption of this law. Of course, unfortunately, it's not like that. Many agencies have been formed so far, many bad experiences with those who work, no experience with those who don't work, and we only have those who don't work or those who do wrong and wrong. I remember, and I hope you too, the former head of the DSS parliamentary group apologizes here as he and his party plead against the agencies, that agencies are paraorgans, that agencies are spending budget money, needlessly, of course, that agencies are comparable authorities. But that would be then. Meanwhile, every law – one new agency. The position of the SRS under this law is contained in the amendment that I have submitted on behalf of the parliamentary group. This is an amendment to Article 1. I suggested that article 1 be deleted. Then we got some writing from the Serbian government. It seems to me that this is some kind of falsification, since it says, "The amendment of the People's MP, Ms. Radeta: Amendment 1 of Article 1 is deleted," and the explanation. Believe me, I didn't write this argument. The explanation I wrote for this amendment on behalf of the SRS, because this explanation reads: "Programmically, the SRS is against the establishment of agencies as public administration authorities because it is an expensive and slightly efficient part of the state apparatus, inappropriate to the current economic situation. None of the agencies established so far have produced expected results in their work, and they have spent a significant part of the budget funds, as their incomes are relatively low. Also, if we plan to have the state run by the agencies, the question arises why do we need the ministries and the government of the Republic of Serbia in general. "So this is the position of the SRS towards agencies and according to this law on public agencies, which even someone dared to call it system law. What has been systemically solved here is really unclear, as is the vague explanation of the government; I don't know if there's ever been a single MP, and if he's submitted any amendment to any law, he's got the government's argument on two sides. This is about an explanation of the bill's proposal, and then so highly, among other things, it says: "The new jobs, whose nature requires them to form status and rules of work, are the reasons why some of the laws of the Republic of Serbia have already established different organisational forms which, among other things, also do administrative work in some areas of social life. They're called agencies. "Imagine, as if we are illiterate, stupid, as if, so now the government is explaining something that is obvious to us. Of course, we do not have an explanation and an explanation why the amendment I have submitted has not been accepted, but that is why the Government reminds us in this response of the existence of the Privatisation Agency. And here's to remind the government's representative and your fellow MPs about what the Privatisation Agency in Serbia has done well: the one still disputed, in the inexplicable takeover of the book of Milos, the role of the Privatisation Agency in the business, that is, in an attempt to do something completely illegal. What did the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency do? How many small and medium-sized enterprises did this government make possible and founded? Agency for Tobacco; Spatial Planning Agency – does this agency create spatial planning conditions for legalisation of buildings? They took the former so many funds in the name of administrative taxis, and so far you haven't trained this agency, nor have we prepared a legalization plan. (President: It's six minutes. Well, I guess that's what this government is supposed to do. The Agency for Medicinal Products was talked about by Paja Momchilov; the Agency for Business Registers, wherever we go all the way to the problem. My dear fellow ministers, perhaps your intention is good, but this is not a good job, neither are agencies a good solution nor what they do contributes to a better life in Serbia. I thank the chairman for his patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12732	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Ljiljana Nestorović submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? Here's a word from the MP Ljiljana Nestorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12733	Thank you, Chairman. And, to cheer up my fellow MPs, who are obviously, as I am, the problem that we've been doing so late since this morning – it's obvious that we can't be applied to the newly discussed labour law. I'm going to talk about this amendment and the explanation that I'm going to give will also apply to a series of amendments that I have submitted, which are essentially all about the same arguments and the same subject. So, by amendment to Article 1, I request that Article 2 be deleted. Article 1 defines the agency and says that the public agency established for development, professional or regulatory affairs of general interest, and Article 2, which I propose to delete, reads: "Special law may, in accordance with the purpose of the public agency, regulate certain issues of the public agency's position differently from this law. "It is just one of the basic remarks that I made when we spoke in the principle of law. The rule, which is already at the beginning of this law, lays down the whole concept of this law. And all other issues in the further text of this law, such as the exercise of founding rights, the authorities of the Agency, the termination of the Agency, are regulated on the same principle and the norm, which sets out a rule of follow-up – that this issue can also be regulated differently by a special law or by a founding act. It is justifiable to ask why this law is even passed. It is not possible to accept, as an argument, a flossule from the reasoning of the Bill's proposal that this law should be passed in order for the status issues of public agencies to be uniformly regulated, with maximum flexibility, to be consistent with the purpose of which the public agency is set up. Public agencies, at least at the beginning of their establishment, in conditions where the rule of law is not working until the end, require, in my opinion, sound regulatory and clear rules, not exceptions, which are very common in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12734	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorović. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Milan Markovic submitted an amendment proposing an amendment to the name of Part II, as well as an amendment to Article 8. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorović. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Justice and Administration Committee has accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by the MP Ljiljana Nestorović. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Meho Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12735	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for just a little rest, since you read the previous amendments quickly. On Article 21, which speaks of the work of the director and the term of office, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 which reads – instead of a point it is stuck and they add the words "with the consent of the founder". Your attention has dropped maximum. Let me remind you, this is about the attitude that says: "The director is laying down a regulation on the internal organisation and systematization of jobs in the public agency. "I believe that this formulation without the addition that I have proposed – "with the consent of the founder" also gives too much authority to the Director, because the Internal Organisation and Systematization of Jobs Regulation, in addition to the expertise and requirements that arise, also determines the number of employees in the public agency. The director of the agency in the rulebook that makes it its own, as you assume, and the number of people who will be employed by this agency. Implementing restrictions, given in the draft law, which only indirectly (e.g. where the Director works in a secure manner), they shall, as a rule, identify the number of employees in the public agency, contained in Articles 42 and 45, under which the Management Board of the Public Agency shall submit the founder to the consent of the annual work programme and the financial plan of the Agency. I don't think that's enough. The proposed amendment would allow for, in some ways, greater control of the founders over the director of the public agency. By adopting this amendment, which is not a minor fact at all, funds from the Republic's budget would be used in a meaningful, rational and controlled way, and we all know that budget control and what a priority, above all, is this high-legislative home. Therefore, I ask you to accept my amendment to Article 21. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12736	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? Ljiljana Nestorovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12737	Thank you, I'll say very briefly: in article 21. The bill, in paragraph 3, after the word "name" is entered the word "longest". Otherwise, this member refers to the term of office of the Director of the Agency, which may also be extended. So we suggest that it says, "it's named for the longest time in five years", since we've predicted a real situation, in which, say, the existence of an agency can be shorter than five years. Thus, if you say "longest in five years", then it is understood that it can be two, three or four years, because there is no need that if the agency does not exist so much, which is a real situation, the appointment goes this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12738	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić submitted to the 48th amendment in the same text. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 54 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected legally. This should be checked, because I think there's a technical error here in the Legislative Committee report. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? Minister Zoran Lončar is represented by the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12739	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given the fact that it is precisely two hours, I cannot begin my final word otherwise than to thank you, first of all, for the patience, attention and energy you have devoted to considering the draft law on public agencies. Therefore, taking into account this fact that I have outlined, as soon as possible, I think that your efforts deserve at least two sentences to refer to the course of tonight's presentation of this law. First, I would not be able to accept the claim, despite the fact that this government is proposing a law called public agencies law, this law is an act of continuity with the previous period, when we have really criticised the existence of agencies, but not all agencies, but only those agencies that were counter-educed by the regulation of the previous government. The adoption of this law represents the fulfillment of the programme promise, made in the government's election, that the work of all agencies will be reconsidered, that those whose existence is not necessary will be abolished, and the existence of others will be regulated in a constitutional manner, which means by law. That's exactly what's happening tonight, by the way. Another brief review of the numerous criticisms of this law that we have had tonight to hear, which, for me as a proposing, I can say – fortunately, come from a small number of representatives of parliament. Of course, they come as a result of a principled and consistent attitude to be against such a status form as the agency. Such an attitude deserves no comment from a political inexperience, but deserves respect. However, if we want to answer the question of what is the difference with regard to the legal position of these organisational forms, which this law calls public agencies and those organisational forms called archives, vaults, bodies, museums, bureaus, centres, I cannot make any difference except that they existed in 1996, 1997, 1998 and 1999, of course last century. In any case, I thank you for tonight's debate and I hope that in the voting day you will support this law with a convincing majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-16-0.u12740	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. The session continues today at 12.00 hours.
