ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13781	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, you have before you today the seed law. As you know, the seed is a guarantee of the life of plants, animals and humans, the seed is a guardian of the natural diversity and diversity around us. The seed is both progeny and parent, and the seed is an existentially important human product. It's often said -- it's hard for one who "eats what needs to be sown" and one who "sows what needs to be eaten". That's why I know that you, with the utmost care, will follow and honor this law later. The production of seeds, production control and quality, processing and transport of seeds has been arranged uniquely for seeds and fruit material and this way of editing that area has led, in application of the rules, to certain problems. That is why the need for this matter to be regulated by the law – two new laws have now been passed and this is the third law in the package. The production of seeds of new varieties of the well-known genetic base, quality-developed and packaged seed is a prerequisite for modern agricultural production. Since the recognition of varieties and the production and use of seeds of the variety of known origin are interrelated areas, this matter is uniquely regulated by this law. This approach and regulation of those areas has already been adopted in EU countries and in all other normal countries. This law regulates the conditions and methods of production, processing, use, transport, import and examination of the quality of seed of agricultural plants, the distribution of agricultural plants and myceliums of edible and medicinal mushrooms, as well as the recognition of newly created domestic varieties, the approval of introduction into the production of foreign varieties and the registration of varieties in the agricultural register. The law defines 28 concepts, some of which are new, such as post-control studies, DUS test, VCU test, and reference collection of varieties. On the basis of the specific conditions for quality and origin, five categories of seed are allocated: pre-basic, basic, certified first generation seed, certified second generation seed and production seed. A definition is given for each of these categories. The paper in the law is also a way of marking seeds in transport, so each seed category has a special type of label. It is specified here who controls the production of certain seed categories. The law found as a newspaper that the production of seed can be done by a company, i.e. a company, another legal person and entrepreneur who is registered in the Register of Seed Producers, Dispersion, Mycellia of edible and medicinal mushrooms. Exceptionally, the production of seeds may also be carried out by natural persons, on the basis of a concluded co-operation agreement with the seed producer. Seeds produced in this cooperation are considered to be producers' production. The law lays down the obligation of the manufacturer to keep a record book on seed production, with a content that is different from the existing law. The records shall include, inter alia, the quantity of total semen received, data on the method of production, type and date of performance of certain works. Also, the law defines professional control over the production of certain categories of seed and which conditions must be met by a professional organisation entrusted with the control of seed production. Article 15 provides that the breeder, on the basis of documentation on the control of pre-basic seed production, shall issue assurance of the recognition of pre-basic seed. For all other categories of confidence in the recognition of seed crops, the Ministry shall issue on the basis of documentation on the production control carried out, which shall be kept for six years. The paper of this law is contained in that particular article, as this will result in better control of the origin of the basic seed, genetic identity and purity of certified seed varieties entered in the Register. Also, links will be made between the process of recognising varieties, compulsory storage of standard samples in the national gene bank and carrying out post-control checks to verify, primarily sortness and genetic purity. Until now, this control has not been envisaged and it is one of the important conditions for us to be an equal member of the OECD. According to EU directives, national body i.e. The Ministry is required to carry out post-control tests, independent of the manufacturer, or the owner of the seed. This law regulates the matter, and the rules will lay down the way and procedure of carrying out production controls, the application form for production control, the control form of the production process and the form of assurance of the recognition of seed crops. The seeds before placing on the market must be processed and only the seeds for which there is confidence about the recognition of seed crops or seeds produced in another country for the purpose of the domestic order and which must have documentation on phytosanitary regularity and on the variety. The seed grower must be entered in the supplementation register. The production of seeds in other countries has not been regulated by law by the domestic orderr so far. In such cases, the Ministry solved each individual case. This law defines the area at last, both with regard to the documentation required in the case of imports of natural seed and in the case of the labelling of seeds during transport to the country for the purpose of finishing and packing, which is also a provision that is in line with the European Union directives. The sampling and examination will be carried out by accredited laboratories, while the sampling can also be carried out by other legal entities, if they have an employee of appropriate professional training. The paper in this provision is that the examination of the quality of seeds in the new law is entrusted only to accredited laboratories, competent for a specific type and type of testing, which have passed the expert examination of the assessor, and the certificate of accreditation of the laboratory is obtained for a certain time period. The seed grower, or importer, shall be responsible for the damage to the end-user if the semen does not meet the conditions of the declared species, variety and quality of the seed. This law regulates that the label is issued by a professional organisation, and small packaging of a grower, or importer. Sam can only be imported in the original package. Natural seed can be imported if the seed is variety and produced for the purpose of the home order, and must be marked with the gray colour label. Article 46 regulates that imported seed with dispatch, so it must have a phytosertificate, a seed variety certificate (OECD) and a semen quality certificate (STA). The imported seed in the original packaging must have a declaration issued by the competent authority of the exporting country. In order for the variety to be recognised, what is new in this law, in addition to the production features that have been established so far, the characteristics of the DUS test, i.e. DESCRIPTION and determination of variety and stability of the variety. The seeds of recognised varieties can be multiplied and placed on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The examination of the variety in fields and laboratories is proposed to last two years. In practice, there was a need for precise definition of the process of recognition of varieties previously recognised, and in the meantime they had a new property, such as disease resistance, oil content, and this law regulates such cases. In order to ensure objectivity, i.e. that all varieties in the recognition process have equal treatment, their examination in the field of examination and the laboratory is carried out under codes. A variety for which a solution on recognition or temporary recognition has been made will be entered by the Ministry in the register of agricultural plant varieties, containing data on newly created domestic, foreign, all other varieties, as well as varieties of vegetables that are temporarily recognised. The supervision of the maintenance of the variety shall be carried out by the Ministry or by an authorised organisation which fulfils the conditions for the equipment and professional persons to carry out that control. Therefore, the aim of this law is to regulate the area of seminary in such a way as to protect the interests of farmers and all agricultural producers in the first place. The basis for the text of the new seed law was served by EU directives, OECD seed certification schemes and post-control studies, the ITA rules on seed testing and the marking of seed packaging. There's a seed law in front of you that needs to bring a little more control and a little more competition in our seminary. Competitions and controls are only afraid of those who don't have a good product and want to hide something. In our seminary, we know that we have good seed producers and this law will only help them reach other markets. Thank you, and I'm ready to answer your questions later.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13782	Do the officials of the committees want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Rafaelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13783	Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I begin to speak on the subject, I must convince those who do not believe in fate, because my grandfather, under the command of grandfather, was in the "equal" ranks from 1941 to 1945, and here, as you can see, their grandkids are in the same ranks here. It's a joke aside, but it's real and this is a very happy moment for me. Before this law we had two laws that were on the agenda of this congregation. I was the Committee's rapporteur at the time, and I didn't want to answer because the Committee was unique in the fact that these laws should be supported, and it's unique this time. In the beginning, I will talk mainly about how we worked on the Committee and what happened during the debate on this law. So one of the few ministries that received absolute support from both the opposition and the position in the Serbian Parliament is the Ministry of Agriculture, and as far as I can see, it is also assessed by European authorities. What happened this time? We got 39 amendments that weren't there when they were previous laws from similar areas. It happened that one of the stakeholders found it appropriate to protect their interests in this law and that is legitimate. The problem was that these 30 amendments were not adopted, because this law will not protect seed producers. He will only introduce order and abolish the monopoly in seed production. The only interested group that will be protected by this law are those people who buy seeds and produce plants, which are mostly peasants or combines. It's one big newspaper that guarantees that nothing will be like it used to be. What's most important in the whole law-making story, so most MPs don't know the procedure. The Ministry and the Committee on Agriculture of the Serbian Parliament put each law first in public debate, so that the law is on the radar of the profession and the profession makes its proposals. Of course, everyone can see it, and I won't mention when the strategy was to go by villages, went to Belgrade, Novi Sad, all parts of Serbia. This is just one of the laws in the law package that will come. I urge, right now at the beginning, the opposition and all MP groups to support this law. This is important, not because the minister is from my group, but because this transition and entry into the EU will pay the most for farmers; the sooner we enter the EU, the more the villagers will benefit, because we will enter EU funds, and the money will go directly to them and therefore we need to support the law. To go back to the law itself; the law abolishes monopolies and protects plant manufacturers, which is most important. The second thing that is very important is the introduction of control, complete control in the system of production and certification. So there will be DUS tests, there will be control of whether the variety in the course of control differs from others, whether it retains its production features written on the label. One part of the remarks, as far as the amendments are concerned, that labels should be printed by manufacturers, it's notsens, it's abnormal for those who produce -- and printing labels. The labels can only be printed by someone who controls and that is the only guarantee that in a bag, bag or any package, only what the label says will be found. In this law, you have, in an impact analysis, one very important thing to support by personal example, in my production. So, he says - seed production so far has been able to perform legal and physical persons, resulting in a large number of producers without vocational education, and thus producing non-quality and medically invalid seeds. Therefore, exports of seeds were difficult. I'll give you one example. In the production of cabbage, 15 years ago, it entered through a bag of seeds, through a few bags of seeds, a disease called Cantomonas camperistis. So, do you know what the result is? My fields, where it's grown, have been out of production for 15 years. The financial cost, in order for these fields to be introduced into production, means completely different machines; neither the plow, the tractor, the gear, nor the sowers, nor the sowers, shall enter that field and then into another, because the disease is being transmitted. It's just one detail, and I don't want to tell you what happened to me in tomato production, when I bought a bag with a label, I don't know who printed it, where I got instead of what was written on my mother's bag, and instead of being a two-and-a-half-foot tomatoes, it was 50 centimeters tall. Therefore, this law should be welcomed and supported. Replacement is the most important thing, as a politician, not as a producer, that the basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the directives of the European Union, the OECD and all other institutions in Europe. This is very important to us in agriculture because of the accession negotiations, so I am not talking about this first part of the relationship with the European Union, that as soon as we pass the laws in the area of agriculture, so that even Mr Nikolic, if he comes to power, can benefit from the benefits of this law. I would also like to note about a package of amendments that refers to the fact that this law should also treat the production of GMOs – genetically modified seeds. If this law were to treat it then it would introduce such a seed to the small door and then it would be controlled and allowed to produce. The law on the production of genetically modified seed can only be a law on GMOs, which has been passed. If anyone has any objections, we can change it and that's not the problem. The second thing we agreed on on on the Committee on Agriculture is about part of the amendment relating to the protection of authors, i.e. those who created themselves, or their intellectual property. This law, it has already been said, and everyone has agreed to it, cannot treat such a problem. It's an intellectual property law issue. Under the Constitutional Charter, the Republic's parliament is not followed by such a law, but by the parliament of Serbia-Montenegro. We agreed on the Committee, unanimously, to support the request of the Ministry of Agriculture, so I don't know, perhaps the Committee President knows better if such a letter is written, and if it isn't written soon and a request will be sent that this Parliament can pass such a law. So, the law is good, introduces order, abolishs monopolies, finally manufacturers will be able to have in a seed pack what is written on the label and I call, on behalf of G17 plus, and position and opposition to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13784	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Here's a word from MP Zoran Mašić, representative of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13785	I would like to begin by denying what Mr Rafaelovic said at the outset. This proposal for a seed law on the Committee on Agriculture was adopted by majority of the votes of the members of the Committee on Agriculture and was therefore designated rapporteur. The SRS parliamentary group submitted a significant number of amendments, and for these reasons, we were unable to accept the proposed bill in the debate on the principle of the Committee on Agriculture, and it is indisputable that in the past year and a few days, the Committee on Agriculture has very correct and co-operative co-operation with the Ministry of Agriculture i.e. The Ministry has one correct relationship and co-operation with the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and the entire Committee. I can do that with pleasure and pleasure for this pay phone. However, as far as legislation is concerned in the area of agriculture, I will say something about this - in the past year and a few days, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Agriculture, forestry and water industry have at least done in the legislative legislation in the area of agriculture. In the presentation of the Agriculture Ministry's 2004 plan and work programme on the Agriculture Committee, the ministry stated that 17 different laws would be passed in 2004 and only one was adopted. In the presentation of the Strategy for the Long-term Development of Agriculture, and different entities in the area of agriculture, as well as the Assembly Committee on Agriculture, it could be seen that 24 laws in the area of agriculture were planned in 2005. Since I assume that the Ministry of Agriculture has "planned" in terms of legislative regulation, and at the recently held Agriculture Committee, when the plan and programme of work of the Ministry for 2005, the members of the Committee were set out that the Ministry of Agriculture and Government were planning to propose to the National Assembly in 2005 the adoption of 14 laws in the area of agriculture. This, as we could hear from Mrs. Minister's opening exposé, is the third agricultural law in the term of office of this government and this agriculture ministry. Those who have illusions about our rapid accession to the EU and the Union market, and the rapid accession of the World Trade Organisation should know that we have at least harmonised legislation in the area of agriculture with EU laws and directives and U.S. regulations. A figure of some 70,000 pages of different laws and laws in the area of agriculture is mentioned, which should be brought and adopted by us. With this dynamic of proposing legislation from the area of agriculture by the government and the Ministry of Legal Regulation, it will not be brought into line for 10 years or more. That is why my appeal, first of all, to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government, is to significantly update the legislation in the area of agriculture, to at least what they planned this year to come into this assembly home and be adopted in the National Assembly, because it is guaranteed that, possibly by joining the EU, and especially by joining the EU, we can be competitive on that market and we can meet the requirements of agricultural production set up by these developed countries. But to go back to the seed law we're discussing today. This law belongs to one of the most important laws in the field of agriculture, and the bill promoter wants to regulate the conditions and manner of production, processing, use, transport, import and examine the quality of seed of agricultural plants, the breakdown of agricultural plants and myceliums of edible and medicinal mushrooms, the recognition of newly created domestic varieties and the approval of introduction into the production of foreign varieties, as well as the registration of varieties of agricultural plants in the Register. The legislator argues that the basis for the text is i.e. The content of the seed law has been served by the European Union, OECD scheme, seed certification and post-control studies, UPOV, which is a abbreviations for the International Convention on the Protection of New Plants, which is a question of recognition of the variety of agricultural plants, and the ITA rules for a legal solution for the examination of seeds, labelling and packaging. ISTA is a abbreviations, International Seed Examining Organisation. The bill introduces DUS tests in the process of recognition of varieties. The DUS test is a test that determines the diversity, personality, uniformity and stability of the variety. A VCU test shall also be introduced, establishing the production and use value of the variety. However, despite the law's efforts to ensure that the Seed Law is modern-day, respected MPs, this law has significant shortcomings and a number of provisions cannot be implemented in practice, production and control of varieties of plants. First of all, there is an objection from certain members of the Commission who have worked on draft laws, which are scientific and research workers from the field of plant production, from our leading scientific and educational institutions, such as agricultural colleges, that during the course of the draft law, it was not an option to regulate the recognition of the variety of agricultural plants and the registration in the Register of varieties of agricultural plants, but rather that it was subsequently introduced into the draft legislation by individual members of the working group, primarily on the basis of the opinion of the Ministry. This is why the members of the Committee on Agriculture, as well as the legislator of the Law, received a written presentation from the Scientific Institute for Waring and Vrva Sad, as our largest producer of varieties and plants, and was verbally announced by the academics of Prof. Dr. Dragan Škorić, the most famous and most prominent in us and in the world of researchers and selectors of the variety seed sunflower. The essence of the objection and the objections to the proposed Semen Law is that such proposed solutions are not protected by the intellectual property of breeders, not protected by our registered variety of plants. There is a reasonable doubt that some of our varieties of plants are exported incognito from our country and registered in some countries in our environment, under another name. The proposal for this law will not allow our country to join the International Convention on the Protection of New Plant Varieties, as membership in that international institution is made possible only by countries and not by certain parts of a country. In view of the fact that the federal state has no jurisdiction in the area of agriculture, an act on the accession of UPOV cannot be adopted at the federal level. The non-accession of UPOV means that the DUS test (examination of diversity, uniformity and variety stability) and the VCU test (test of the productive and useful value of the variety of plants) carried out in our country in the field of view or laboratory in the course of the examination for the registration of the variety will not be recognised abroad, which means that each of our producers of the variety of plants, if they want to register outside the country, must pay to re-do the DUS test and the VCU test, which takes two to three years. At the same time, Article 87. The proposal for a seed law in paragraph 4 defines that the Ministry of Agriculture will recognise the results of the DUS trials carried out in the UPOV Member State. Such a legal solution is particularly favoured by foreign companies, breed seed producers from the Member States of UPOV, as they can register and register with us in the register of varieties of agricultural plants of their seed without prior examination of the DUS test. In the context of the debate on the Seed Law proposal, I would like to point out the serious problem of the production of genetically modified plants in our country: soybean and some kinds of vegetables. From year to year, areas planted with seeds of genetically modified soybeans and vegetables are increasingly growing, and the state, above all, inspection bodies and the judiciary, do not sanction this phenomenon more and more, despite the existence of the Law on Genetically modified organisms and express the ban on cultivation in our country of genetically modified organisms. It is therefore surprising that the draft law in Article 2(1) defines that the provisions of this law do not apply to the production and transport of genetically modified seed of agricultural plants, the distribution of agricultural plants and myceliums of edible and medicinal mushrooms. It is this law that gives the widest possible to control the quality of genetic origin and genetic purity, health and health. the phytosanitary state of the seed. Article 11 The proposal for a seed law is given the possibility that our manufacturer may, for the needs of a foreign client, produce and supplement seeds of plant varieties that are not registered with us in the Register of agricultural plant varieties. This production may be carried out under the prior consent of the Ministry of Agriculture and on the basis of a contract with the foreign contracting authority, under which the contracting authority assumes the total quantity of the produced natural or processed seed. These members, as well as other members who regulate the production of seed for a foreign client, are not decidently determined that the foreign contracting authority must issue a certificate that the variety seed is not genetically modified and that the semen must be examined prior to sowing, possibly the degree of genetic modification. Such a solution, as provided for in Articles 11 and 2, can essentially be produced for us by a foreign client genetically modified varieties of plants and certain quantities remain in our country. Which mechanism and what control can ensure that all produced natural and processed seed can be delivered to a foreign customer, when we have a situation where unauthorized channels, illegal channels, bypassing inspection organs, imports and introduction of seeds, primarily genetically modified soybeans, and that plant plantings of that plant are increased year by year, but more and more genetically modified plants of other plant species. Therefore, if we give the possibility of producing for a foreign seed client, and at the same time we are not looking for clear and sharp requirements that this seed that will be produced for a foreign client is not absolutely genetically modified and that only under these conditions can it be produced, I, at the very least, expected that this Article 11 should be determined more precisely. Unfortunately, it's not so decadently apostrophe. It says "concretion" gives the ministry such production. For these very reasons, and most likely the reasons my fellow MPs from my parliamentary group will present, the MPs of the SRS have tabled a significant number of amendments to the proposed Seed Law. The government has accepted only eight proposed amendments. Our support for this law will be absolutely conditioned if, during the debate in particular and in the voting day, the assembly majority accepts the amendments to the SRS. Otherwise, we probably won't be able to support this kind of seed bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13786	People's MP Rafaelovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13787	I ask Mr. Mašić and the others not to take this as a replica, but as an explanation. He obviously didn't understand me, because I said I didn't report for the previous laws that were passed, because we were unique in the position of the Committee. As soon as I mentioned the amendments, that means we weren't unique this time, and that's why I came out as a reporter. So, for the sake of clarity, there were eight votes on the Committee – "yes" and four against. That's what's true. I didn't say for a moment that we were unique this time. I'd just like to point out, about a good part of the amendment, exactly what we're going to send to European institutions, we're asking that we get the right to pass a law on intellectual property protection. If we need to amend some other laws, it doesn't mean that we are from the ruling majority and the Ministry against the amendments, but most of these amendments that haven't been adopted, almost all of us, don't belong to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13788	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yes, MP Zoran Micovic, authorised representative of DS-Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13789	Mr. Chairman, a respected minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, the DS welcomes the adoption of this act in the Assembly and, in that sense, has contributed and has proposed a number of amendments to which we want this matter to be settled. We believe that seed in agricultural terms means restoring plant production and its continuity. The seeds indicate new yields of plant species that provide essential conditions for the survival of the human species. Those who produce seeds, produce and hope for the economic prosperity of its users and their own. The seeds concentrate the knowledge of a number of scientists and experts: geneticists, processors, seminarists, physiologists, biochemists, etc. It employs a large number of experts, develops the infrastructure and value of primary production and enables a large number of manufacturers to exist. The knowledge and skills of seed production is embedded in Serbia's agriculture through the long-standing work of scientists and experts at universities, institutes, agricultural professional services, in production and finishing. Modern varieties and hybrids have reached a very high potential for yields and product quality. Such high potential was possible only with the development and practical application of the results of fundamental and applied research. Knowledge is the only limiting factor in the development of potential for yields. From here the seed has a significantly higher value than the basic plant product. Exploiting the potential of seed in its genetic record is an even more difficult problem. In production practice, the level of knowledge of seed users, but even more so, their economic power, are limiting the potential of varieties and hybrids in the agro-economic conditions of the Republic of Serbia. Contemporary process technique and seed processing technology, the development of fungicides and insecticides for effective seed protection, allow the potential of seeds to be preserved and safely delivered to users and sown over 3.5 million farmed areas in Serbia. The DS welcomes the proposal and believes the seed law should regulate a very important segment of domestic agrarian. In essence, it should regulate the following: how to enable farmers to get to the quality seed and fruit material and how to protect them from counterfeits; how to prevent them from competing imports; how to employ other prominent plants in the production of seeds, fruit material – seed producers, growers, traffickers, professional services, scientific and educational houses – and thus enable as much of the profits to remain in Serbia; how to make a brand of "seed from Serbia" from domestic seed and fruit material, because I am convinced that exports of seed and fruit material can bring a significant amount of foreign exchange inflow. Besides money, it's an even more important affirmation of domestic science and profession in the world and the awareness that we shouldn't be addicted to everything other people know. Domestic seeds and seedlings of hybrid varieties and fruit material cover 100% of the fields in Serbia under barley, wheat, sunflower and soybean, 95% under corn, 60% under sugar tail, 50% under vegetables, 80% in fruit and vineyarding. We import potatoes almost 100%, but we don't have to. 15 years ago, we were large exporters of seedlings and vines. That reputation in the world hasn't disappeared. Seed exporters were in Novi Sad, Zemun Polje, Smederjevska Palanca, Kragujevac, Zajecara and Cačka. Today, it's respected institutes in Novi Sad and Zemun Polje. In order to successfully sow all 3.5 million hectares in Serbia, it is necessary to invest around 180m euros each year, not counting seedlings and vines. If we didn't have homemade varieties and hybrids, but imported them, it would cost Serbia about 300m euros each year. The production of seeds and fruit material in Serbia has a whole series of problems and needs help. The law must define the spear and how it can deal with production, processing and traffic, who conducts professional supervision, and who controls the application of the law and who punishes individual entities in that chain. Special attention shall be paid to imports of seed and fruit material. By paying no attention, we've got the seams, the raspberries, the genetically modified seeds, the corn gold, and something else we're about to find out. Border control, quarantine services and expert bodies at the Ministry, everything must be clearly defined by this law. So far, domestic institutes have created nearly 3,000 varieties and hybrids of different plants. It has been registered abroad and grown close to 500 varieties and hybrids. This means that domestic creations are competitive with their values. Therefore, domestic processors should be protected from excessive imports, numerous aggressive representatives of foreign companies, by placing registration of foreign and new varieties in the same position as domestic varieties and hybrids in the European Union, especially in countries in our environment, such as Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, Croatia and Macedonia. Ladies and gentlemen, once again in the end, the DS will support this law if the amendments we wanted to improve this matter are adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13790	Anyone else want a word? Yes, MP Brance Stojanovic, authorised SPS representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13791	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Minister, we have before us a seed law. After the Law on fruity material of fruit trees, vines and hops and the Law on forest reproductive material, we kind of round this area by passing seed laws. This is one of the most important system laws of every country that has its own agriculture or its own production of food, raw materials and energy, on its own natural basis. Seeds as a variety represent the basic anthropogenic and technological factor of plant production. I want to start by saying, and I won't be long about this, enough is said, the SPS will support the adoption of this law and will vote for this law. Of course, it will be about individual amendments submitted by fellow Members. I have to be here, for the sake of the people who have been in this area for a long time, for the sake of a science that has, to some extent, had some objections, although we have heard here from the president of the Committee, and I believe that the law has passed a certain procedure of public debate. Because of the people who have made certain remarks, and this is about experts from this area, I want to say a few words today, which is that they have been given large, and even as they say, uncontrollable powers to the Ministry and the Minister, and there is not a word about the law and the competence of the Ministry and the Minister for the performance of certain functions that the law provides. It is also considered that public authorities and representatives have been granted undetected large rights to interfere with the basics of plant production technology, and there is no responsibility for the consequences of the application of these rights. I sincerely hope that the people of the Ministry and the Minister of Agriculture will also give an explanation for these principled objections to people who are primarily involved in the sciences at the Faculty of Agriculture, Zemun. So, in some ways, we're going to sort of clarify these initial misunderstandings or misunderstandings of people who are dealing with this problem. I want to say a few more things that are important and important for our country's agriculture, and they don't directly apply to this law. I think that's also said by my predecessors that indeed during the previous period, which was extremely difficult for our country's agriculture, the seed producers and all the consequences in doing so have made an unmistakable contribution to making good offerings, although production, both at wartime and vegetable, and also at fruit-winorradar, has been made in very difficult conditions, thanks to the people who have dealt with this area, who have selected certain varieties, we can gladly give them recognition like this and in this way. Another thing that is directly related to this area, and we discussed it when we spoke on the Committee on Agriculture on the Strategy for the Development of Agriculture, I would like to say that it is also the conclusion of the Committee, as well as the position of the SPS parliamentary group, that it would be good to have the strategy for the development of agriculture as a topic of assembly debate and then, as our people say, put an end to some of the dilemmas about the further development of our agriculture, which I think is an undivided view, that the objective chance of our country is. The next thing you know is big systems, and we were talking about when we talked about the agricultural development strategy. Large systems, and by this I mean large combinations, along with scientific institutes and scientific institutions, in the previous period were those that implemented this and produced seeds that practically went into the market and that our producers were sowing. I think the current state of affairs of these large combinations and these large systems is extremely difficult. Once again, I appeal to the people of the Ministry to initiate, and I know that this is not the area of the resolute Minister of Agriculture, it's more about privatization, the resuscitation of these large systems, because they were significant and should not be left behind in this way. I come from a place where it existed, because it exists in fact, and it basically doesn't do anything, the Agricultural Combined Godomine, with a significant potential of land, about 4,000 ha. I'm afraid by the long-term privatisation process, which has been going on for three years, we don't get into a situation where, in a few years, we have to get into the fertile sea and Danube land, the bulldozers have to come in first, and the multi-year wooden plants come out, and then the tractors do their job. Unfortunately, I know the situation isn't much better in other big systems or in other combinations. After all, the members of the Committee, colleagues, know that when it came to the strategy for the development of agriculture, that we had and also met the situation in a large system such as the PIC "Becay"; we also heard from the people of the renowned institutes who produce seeds that the state should try not to make the mistake it was made, let's say, in Hungary, and that large systems are being preserved. Why am I talking about this right now? Experts know that it is very difficult to organise seed production on tiny parcels like they are in Serbia. We are afraid that if the great systems experience the fate of large systems in Hungary, we will not be able, and I repeat that the SAA will support this law, that we cannot implement parts of that law in seed production. What Mr. Micovic said, which I absolutely agree with, is that we may be turning the non-performing war production towards seed production and finding a way to export these quality seeds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13792	The word is from MP Arsen Kurjački, representative of the DSS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13793	The Honorable Madam Minister, members of the Ministry, the Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues, the seed law that we are discussing today should replace the current Seed and Fruit Law, which was adopted in 1993 and 1994, and which uniquely regulated this issue, means seeds, and fruit material, and agricultural and forest plants. Given that there are significant differences in the production of seed and fruit material, agricultural and forest plants, the need to regulate this with two different laws has been imposed. So far we have adopted, as we have so far heard, the Law on forest reproductive material, the Law on fruity fruity material of fruity fruity fruits, vines and hops, and now it's our turn to law on seeds. The need for the adoption of this law naturally also imposes the process of our country's integration into the EU, which we seek to comply with and comply with their regulations and directives. Serbia is recognizable, for all those who do not know, both in Europe and worldwide, by wealth, by the multitude of genetic resources we possess, so that this bill is over-needed for two of the most important reasons: firstly, to give domestic seed producers better access to the international market and to overcome competition; second, of course, nothing less important, to provide seeds of better quality for domestic consumers, which would reflect as successful and better agricultural production as possible. Why is seed production significant? For seed production, we can easily say that it is in the strategic interest of our country for two reasons: firstly, that it is one of the rare domestic products, which has almost unlimited export opportunities and brings significant foreign income to the country – only hybrids from the newly-sadic wartime institute meet at 42 million hectares in the world; another reason why every responsible state must take care of, is to enable the self-satisfaction of the nation to produce and provide the highest variety of agricultural plant seed, which is a presumption for the successful satisfaction of the diet of its population. So the creation of new varieties is really one long, uncertain, expensive and painful job. To produce a new variety, many scientific knowledge from several fields is needed, and the knowledge and experience of top experts, i.e. breeders. This law, as we have heard and read, regulates the entire matter, both production, doping, use, transport, import, testing the quality of seed of agricultural plants, the distribution of agricultural plants, and mycelium of edible and medicinal mushrooms. This law also regulates recognition of varieties and registration in the register. This is one big and positive progress, because the seed law, the law on the recognition of the variety of agricultural plants and the registration in the register of varieties makes one logical continent, which cannot and should not be separated. What's the paper in the law? The paper is also a way of marking seeds in traffic, so each category has its own special type of labels. It is also a uniform marking of the label on the bag, as is the case in international transport. But one mistake has been stolen, unfortunately we haven't responded to that in Article 4, for pre-basic seeds instead of pink, it says, should stand "violet color" to be uniformed with the OECD. Maybe it's a legal-technical editorial that can be rectified. As I said, the introduction of a register of producers, growers and seed transporters is in line with the EU provision, which allows for the continuity of seed monitoring from producer to final buyer. As the minister stressed, the law prescribes the obligation to carry out post-control tests by the national body. Unfortunately, we have not yet formed this national body, so this role is taken by the Ministry, independent of the producer, or the owner of the seed. There is one of the requirements, also the OECD, without which there is no full membership. Seed production in other countries is also regulated by this law. At the expense of the domestic orderr, this has not been regulated by law until now, but has been resolved by applying from case to case at the Ministry. Of course, it opened places for certain doubts and good news that it is now finally regulated and clearly defined by law. It is also clearly defined and responsible if the seed does not meet the conditions regarding the declared variety, species, quality and everything else that carries the seed. Therefore, there is no more transfer of responsibility in the chain, but it is clear that the seed grower is responsible for the case of domestic seed and the importer for the case of import seed. The issue of labels has caused a lot of controversy, as we heard today, on the Committee on Agriculture, since certain colleagues from other parliamentary groups felt that the label should be issued by those who produce seeds. It is regulated by law that labels are issued by a professional organisation authorised by the minister, and for small packages the importer can. Why does it matter? For the simple reason that there must be no doubt of any interference. Simply, it must be prevented by clearly defining that one who monitors seed production, controlled production and production, must also have control over issued labels, to the quantity and type of labels. Then, the issue of imports was regulated. Sam can only be imported in the original package. Natural seed can only be imported by variety and if produced for the account of the home client. Quality testing is a very important thing in the chain of production, it's defined and it can only be performed by accredited laboratories. It's so regulated in the EU and there's no other way to solve it. So, by introducing accreditation, as conditions for carrying out and examining seeds, we ensure that the results of one laboratory must be evaluated, respected throughout the country, and there is no need for any suspicion, or additional examination. In order to ensure objectivity, i.e. that all varieties in the recognition process have equal treatment, and their examination, both in the field of view and in the laboratories, are done under codes, so that there would be no privilege. It's not a question, and no one was making a question about it. The issue raised on the Committee on Agriculture, unfortunately we had no majority opinion, is the question of how long studies should take in the field of view. The law provides for it to last for two years. In the EU, the period is between two and five years. There are a lot of advocates who believe that this period should be extended to at least three years for war-based plant cultures, and two can remain for vegetable crops. If it is known from the practice that greater security in determining the continuity of a variety feature is achieved in longer time views, when there is no rational explanation why this period should be reduced to the very minimum that is foreseen in the EU, why not extend it at least a little bit. There are even opinions in some professional circles, which are of course not written, but are suggested in certain parliamentary groups, that this provision makes even certain services to some multinational companies dealing with seed production. We therefore feel that we should consider and perhaps extend this period to three years. The declaration procedure, i.e. the certification is fully covered and there is nothing to add. So it was just some of the papers and good things that were regulated by this law. What is a failure, or failure, that should not be included in this law, and what is not included? The law should not cover the problem of myceliums of edible and medicinal mushrooms. This should be defined by some other legal acts. It's no big deal, but maybe we should split up, but if this is the way it's supposed to be, it won't bother. Then, the law should not regulate, i.e. to address the issue of phytosanitary control, i.e. the issue of phytosertificate, because this has been resolved by the Law on Plant Protection, as well as the question of the health status of the seed, because it is also resolved by this law. What has also been a lot of objections and suggestions is the issue of the National Institute for the Recognition and Protection of New Varieties of Agricultural and Forest Plants. The opinion is that this institute is necessary, that it should exist and that it should be formed by the Ministry, and that it should take care of its work. So, to be directly subordinated to the ministry, but still to be an independent institute. It is said that such very successful institutions already exist in our environment, I mean Hungary and Croatia, and should use their positive experiences. In this way, we might remove those remarks that we have heard, which are presented in some circles, that according to this law most of the activities are concentrated on the ministry and that in this way little extreme science, marginalized domestic professions, professional organisations etc. There is a view that the adoption of this law should have been conditioned by the establishment of this national Institute for the Recognition and Protection of New Varieties, I mean agricultural and forest plants. These are things that can be improved in walking by changes and additions to this law, as the practice is going to be, and that shouldn't be a bigger problem. What is the biggest problem in this matter, which so far is not a solution, although in a conversation in front of this session with the minister I was given assurances that it would still go in the right direction. It is a process of creating and recognising varieties, and must be followed by their protection. That's what we were talking about. If the seed law also joined the law on the protection of varieties, we would get one pro-European regulation, which would unite both the process of creating varieties, so the process of recognition and, ultimately, the process of protection. The protection of varieties is a very important operation and segment in the seminary. If there is no protection, it can be very easy to steal the intellectual property of an impregnable, there may be some of our unrecognizable varieties. Our legendary inseminator, Professor Škorić, on the Committee on Agriculture has publicly raised the suspicion that several lines have already been taken out of our country, which cannot cheer us up and cannot serve us with honor. The question arises what about this proposal for a law on the protection of newly created varieties of agricultural and forest plants, which should be brought into line with the UPOV Convention, and that has already been said, therefore, is one union for the protection of plant varieties. We ask what's the matter, because those who deal with this problem know that the bill was included in Serbia-Montenegro's assembly procedure as early as 2002. Unfortunately, because of political instability in the formation and functioning of the state, to this day it has not been adopted. Without this law, we cannot become a member of this Union, and thus our varieties cannot be protected, because it is not recognised to perform DUS tests without which there is no protection of varieties. The union insists that the law can only be passed at the level of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and not at the level of its members. No laws of the Republic of Serbia have brought fruit to date to change that attitude, and we have received assurances from the minister that it is indeed very much done and still seems to be. Now the question is, why is that? It is certain that our competition in the world is not in the interest of becoming a full member of this Union as quickly as possible, it is clear that in this way a particular lobby group eliminates itself from competition and we cannot do much about it. The question arises, in whose interest are all those who obstruct the construction of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and respect for the Constitutional Charter; for whose interest all those who advocate the decommissioning of this state community, when it is evident from this example that all citizens of Serbia are suffering huge economic damage and that we are all turning back as a society. Despite the shortcomings we have made, the DSS will support this seed law, because it is a good law, it is necessary for our agrarian and there is no dilemma, but we will also fight for the respect of the Constitutional Charter and its preservation, because it is the long-term and best solution for the Serbian people in general and for all citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13794	Do any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Vladislav Kronic, representative of G17 Plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13795	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, today we have the pleasure, at least we from agriculture, who have been dealing with the production of this seed material for many years, to conduct a debate in front of this high house on the seed law. Of course, life begins with seeds and seed is a very important category for production to be successful. The G17 Plus Group will support this law, first of all, because we, as one responsible political party, are taking care, first of all, of agriculture and agricultural producers and so far have done a lot. To return to the seeds, nearly four million acres in this country are re-sowing each year with seeds. It is very important, not only for our scientists, for our seed houses, for all those people who deal with seeding, and seeding is one profitable activity and activity, it is very important that our citizens who deal with agriculture really have a choice and that what they buy is really what they buy to be in that seed package. Unfortunately, in some previous times, we had a situation that there were various lobbying events, so there was a lot of packing, and there was a lot of stuff on the market. To go back to the law, this law and its constitutional basis are Article 72 paragraph 1 point 5) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which speaks of the preservation of the plant world. Of course, the Constitutional Charter, as well as the Law implementing the Constitutional Charter, requires the Republic of Serbia to regulate this legal matter. The current regulation, which also included the Seed and Fruit Material Act, was brought back a long time ago, so it was 1993 or 1994, and, as you know, on 24 February 2005, this high home was passed by the Fruit Material Act of Fruit, Wine Trees and hops, and thus, along with the Law on fruit material of the forest plant regulated a part of this matter. So this third law is actually rounding up the issue of production, the complete production of seminary in this country. I must note that this law is in line with eight EU directives. It's a law that has included a lot of modern solutions. As regards the law itself, in its I Chapter and the Basic Provisions, it is regulated and defined what this law refers to, the conditions and the way of production, the import, the examinations of the quality of seed, the recognition of newly created varieties and their approval, the introduction into the Register of varieties. It's also important to me, and I may not agree with some previous speakers, what's defined in Article 2 and that's what "no" is about. And it does not apply to the production of seeds of flowers, medicinal plants, aromatic, decorative, as well as mixtures of grass for parks and playgrounds. Of course, it doesn't apply to genetically modified organisms. This issue has been regulated by the federal Law on genetically modified organisms and the practical application of that law has made it impossible for these organisms to enter into this country, and all that is found and what has been genetically modified in this country, it is primarily soybean and some corn, it is the subject of illegal imports, or smuggling, I would call crime, and it must be prosecuted. In article 3, which refers to individual terms in this law, which is 28, I would single out only a few. These are new terms that are used, which is: certified seeds, these are post-control studies of seeds, which were mentioned, it's a DUS test. In Article 4, the categories of seed are defined as plant elites or hybrids. The basic seed is so called. the original, then certified first-generation seed, certified second-generation seed, what is today only referred to as the first variety, i.e. second variety reproduction and, of course, the production seed. The law would define the marking of these seed categories. I agree that whether pink or purple is for elites, i.e. white for basic seeds, blue and red for certified seeds. In Chapter II, seed production has been defined. Who can and what conditions should be met by one who wants to deal with seed production. Of course, registration in the register of seed producers and (Article 9) a book on seed production records is introduced. As regards Chapter III, control of seed production, Article 12 defines professional mandatory control. In Article 13, professional control of pre-basic seed is carried out by the breed maintainer, just the one that created the variety, and professional control of other categories of seeds is carried out by the Ministry. Article 14 defines the application for the control of seed; until now it was 30 days after sowing, and this law provides for it to be 15 days after the harvest; for the autumn sowing, that is, for the winter of crops, it is December 31st, and for the spring sowing it is June 30th. Article 16 regulates the issuing of a certificate of recognition of seed crops which has been in force so far. The IV chapter regulates the processing of seeds: Article 20 says who can deal with seed processing, who is a producer, who is a seed grower, and Articles 25 to 28 regulates the obligation of producers to report the natural amounts of seeds that have entered the processing centres. This is also very important and in the past there have been some inconsistencies in the application of the law. Of course, it also provides for keeping records and destroying waste that occurs when seed is processed. The fifth chapter is dedicated to the quality of the seed in Articles 31 to 33. It is regulated by the examination of seeds, that it is carried out by an accredited laboratory, this condition for the sampling of seeds and, of course, the sampler must have a high professional preparation - a graduate engineer of the agricultural college, a war-to-vatar direction, i.e. plant protection. Article 34 regulates the responsibility for the quality of the seed and defines who is responsible for the damage that will result from possible non-quality seed. The VI chapter regulates packaging, declaration and marking of seeds. Here I would point to a Article 37 that defines a serial number label; Article 38 that defines the issue of a label by a professional organisation, and a member of the 40th prohibits the repacking and proportioning of seeds, which was also in the past. Chapter VII of this law regulates the transport of seeds: a member of the 41st regulates traffic "to large" and explicitly says that those organisations dealing with the traffic "to great" must have a 7th-degree employee, that it is a graduate engineer of the Faculty of Agriculture of War and Rural Direction; and in the case of retail traffic there must be an agricultural expert in the fourth degree of professional training. Of course, this law has been regulated, as in previous laws, that seed transport cannot be carried out outside the place of selling seed. As regards the import of seed, that was the case, it was regulated in Chapter Eight of this Law – Articles 44 to 46 are currently regulating it. The IX chapter regulates the production of plant breakdowns; Article 47 defines who can be involved in the production of decomposing and in Article 55 of the Rasta Transport. The 10th chapter regulates the production of myceliums and edible and medicinal mushrooms, meaning, regulates production, producer register, producer records and traffic of these myceliums. In the XI chapter, important matter is regulated – recognition of the variety of agricultural plants and registration in the register of varieties of agricultural plants. There's only three things I'd single out, that's a DUS test first. The DUS test is one newspaper that is introduced and practically guaranteed to sort-makers that no sort that has the same characteristics that theirs can't register again and that's in my opinion a positive thing, because some of our neighbouring countries have had a problem in determining that the variety they're reporting has already been registered somewhere. This one doesn't need our geneticists to be afraid. This is exactly what protects their varieties. There's also a VCU test and, of course, the name of the variety.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13796	Excuse me, Mr. Kronic, do you want to use the other 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13797	No, I'm done. It's regulated what's the diversity of variety, uniformity, stability, and that's what we've been talking about so far. Articles 78 and 79 have been regulated by the process of examining and recognising the variety; and I would interpret this fear of two years as one good provision of the law because it allows our creators to go to the market a year earlier and commercialise their work result, and that third year would actually be a loss precisely for our breeders. Of course, a post-control examination of the seed was also regulated. The supervision shall be carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture through competent inspectors who have rights and obligations. There are both transitional and final and, of course, criminal provisions. Once again in the end - G17 plus will support the adoption of this law precisely because it allows our citizens who deal with agriculture to come into possession of truly quality seeds.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13798	Thank you. All the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, spoke. I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until the opening of a search for a word in writing, with order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: G17 plus, SRS, DSS and no one else. I give my word to the MP Dragan Petrovic, and let Radisa Ilic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13799	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, today we have an important seed law and the G17 Plus will support this law, because it is approaching our agricultural production to the European Union. Why is this law important - it is clear to all, because it regulates one area that is very important in agricultural production. The importance of agricultural production and production of quality certified seeds, varieties, known genetic identity, has imposed the need to make this law. This law protects genetic resources, improves seminary, protects consumers and our environment. The prerequisite for modern agricultural production is the production of seeds of new varieties, known genetic bases, as well as quality processed and packaged seeds. The recognition of varieties and the production and use of varieties of known origin are interrelated areas and this law is a single regulated market. The European Union has also adopted this approach to regulating those areas, which is what we want by this law to achieve. This law also regulates the conditions, the way of production, processing, use of transport and imports, the testing of quality seed of agricultural plants as well as the distribution, agricultural plants and myceliums of edible and medicinal mushrooms, as well as the recognition of newly created domestic varieties and the approval of the introduction of foreign varieties and the registration of those in the agricultural register that is applicable to us. Seed production has so far been carried out by legal and natural persons and that was a large number of producers without professional education. In such conditions, unskilled and medically invalid seed was produced. The existing law does not adequately prescribe a seed category, which is a basic condition for the production of healthy, tested, controlled and freed seed from diseases and pests. For these reasons, exports of seeds were difficult and our agriculture could not achieve more significant financial resources and a larger foreign exchange inflow. By introducing new categories of seeds, our regulation is in line with the European Union regulation, European laws and the categorisation scheme, which will lead to the relief of seed exports to the world market. All of this would produce a financial effect that is not negligible for our agricultural producers and for our agriculture in general. We all know in what situation our agricultural production is and by exporting quality seed we can achieve a significant foreign exchange inflow. For a long period of time, it is felt that the area of seminary is needed to be arranged to protect seed buyers in the first place. What is most important and the greatest positive effect will be seen in getting seeds of proven quality, known origin and genetic basis, to ensure a better yield of plants. A greater link will be made between the process of recognising varieties, compulsory storage of standard samples in the national gene bank and carrying out post-control examinations to check the variety and genetic purity of the seed. Prescribing the protection of varieties will be created, protecting the rights of processors against possible abuses. Security for foreign companies is increasing. It reduces the possibility of abuse of foreign varieties and increases the safety of production for the ino-purchaser. The phytosanitary and genetic correctness of seeds of varieties entered in the Register will be ensured. G17 plus will vote for the bill, because it's very important because of the production of certified seeds. G17 plus believes that the adoption of a new seed law is significantly approaching our agricultural production of the European Union and opening up a large market for our agriculture. G17 plus invites you to vote for this law, because this is a good law and it is important for our agricultural production and for our farmers.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13800	The word has the People's MP Radisa Ilic, and let the MP Mika Vlaovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13801	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's another bill of law on seeds, and modelled by the European Union's regulations. If it weren't for that European Union, Parliament would seem to be sitting unemployed. As far as the bill itself is concerned, the alignment with as many as eight European Union directives is concerned, just to clarify whether these directives are protecting themselves or whether they want such a degree of development with us, which we are in a phase of neither here nor here. It is already said in the explanation on page 2 at the end of the paragraph – "trafficking and the seed market within the European Union". We now need to prove that in the coming decades until the entry into the European Union, if it does not fall apart, we will create something that may not be able to come into the European Union market. This law tries to regulate three important things: the production of healthy seed material; the distribution of seed material through trade, importers, to the end of the consumer; the creation and recognition of new varieties. In order to illustrate the importance of some things in this law, I will strongly sanction one example: for one kilo of smuggled seed material, let's say some vegetables, in our country from e.g. Israel is earning about 10,000 euros – and you now see what problem the ministry is facing, and I would say the police may be large, inconspicuous, even tragic, as a result of this illegally imported seed. With every seed variety that is not attested, tested, approved, and entered into our country, it can be permanently contaminated with the soil of diseases, a genetically modified seed can be made a major disturbance in the food chain in animals and humans, and many diseases can also be transmitted to humans and animals. Under the company - use of infected seed, methods of use of biological weapons can be treated. If we start with a production analysis, Article 5 lists all those who can deal with seed production. This article also mentions natural persons, but not on their own, but only on the basis of a co-operation agreement with the seed producer. So, the fact that someone registered agricultural land in this situation means nothing to him, except regressed oil on a spoon. Turns out, according to this, the members of the 5th and 6. – that natural persons will almost manage production on their own, because the question is whether the responsible face of the seed producer will always be able to control the physical faces that produce the seeds. It is not enough just at the end to pick up certain amounts of seed produced, but should have at least some basic insight into the seed process itself. In Article 6(5), when it comes to a person with a finished agricultural college, there is no indication of the direction - the protection of plants. I think it is very important to properly maintain the protection of plants that are grown as seed donors, or those treated as a dispersion. Also, at one point, you had to predict the quality of the land, the mandatory equipment, the machinery for the producers themselves, and also the physical faces. The control of the seed produced shall, under this proposal of the law, be entrusted to the professional organisation under Article 13. The remark on my part would consist in the following: why does the law not provide for a greater number of experts to control the produced seed? This, however, is a very important segment of the overall process of creating quality seed material and can cause great damage to our agricultural producers. As for seed processing, in Article 21, point 5, you left out a person with a finished agricultural college, the direction of plant protection, which is extremely important in the seed finishing process. It is not only the purpose of producing a certain amount of seed, but it is important that this seed be healthy, without signs of disease or deformity. This will best be followed by an expert in the field of plant protection. What is likely to be lacking in this law is the obligation of professional training of future producers, producers, natural persons who set out to earn income in this way. Given that our conditions are ideal then we need to work as much as possible to promote seed production to facilitate the difficult situation, especially rural households that simply cannot survive on the market by selling their classic and already established agricultural products. That Serbia does not also begin to flood seed material from the European Union, because it is likely to meet the law of the prescribed conditions, while our domestic producers will lose more and more of our market, as this law will burden many unnecessary expenditures and conditions!- I'm sorry. When it comes to responsibility for the quality of the seed, Article 34 refers specifically to seed growers only. Since there are several stages in seed production, responsibility must be observed differently. Perhaps it was the first manufacturer's fault, perhaps the accredited laboratory gave incorrect analysis of seed samples, and could also be questioned and the work of a professional organisation, which only the Ministry entrusted professional tasks to control the production of seeds. It is not only possible to take responsibility for one single player in the seed production chain. Nearly 30 members of this bill report a sentence -- the minister will prescribe methods, the minister will prescribe forms, the minister prescribes the content of the register, the ministry prescribes conditions etc. Who can guarantee those who do this work that the Ministry will do so and no later than one year from the day of publication of this law, if adopted? If someone has already started to comply with this law these days, what will you do if you have not in the meantime prescribed content, conditions, patterns, methods, etc., which you constantly refer to in almost every member? In the chapter dealing with the process of recognising and registering the varieties of agricultural plants, a problem arises again, which was also mentioned in the Law on fruit material of orchards, vines and hops. The problem is called "the owner of the variety". It is not demarcated here, it is not correctly defined whether the institution or institution in which agricultural experts work is the owner of a variety or an individual who specifically created the variety. Since the owner of the variety has great powers at his disposal to the newly created variety, the issue of ownership is imposed. In the institutes, scientific workers are paid by the state for the job and it would be pointless to alienate later what was created with the help of the state. Therefore, it is necessary to distinguish this segment more clearly because of the professional public and also because of national interest. In the end, I would say something about criminal provisions, specifically, of Article 104, which states that a natural person will be punished for the violation of seed production, the destruction or mycelium, without a contract with a manufacturer, punishable from 2,500 to 50,000 dinars. If a seed production company is punished, the fines move up to three million dinars. It is normal to expect that many will shut down their businesses and move to illegally produce seed material and decay as natural persons. The punishment for the offense is small, it can be easily settled. Each will rather be defined for a lower sentence for natural persons than for a high risk, from a commercial offence and millions of fines. This is the exact same situation we had with the Law on Fruit Material, Fruits, Wines and Hopes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13802	The word has the People's MP Mika Vlaovic, and have Milorad Krstin prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13803	Mr. President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in agricultural production, in addition to all the agrotechnical conditions, an important place also takes the quality of the seed. This law covers production, processing and transport. It's been determined who can do seed production, who do dorad and who can traffic. The production of seeds may be carried out by undertakings and registered farmers who conclude a contract with a seed production company. The seeds are divided into five categories: pre-basic, basic, certified first-generation seed, certified second-generation seed, productive. I'm gonna hang on to this for a while. In the last few years, seed potatoes can be produced in higher parts of Serbia, "elite" is imported and sown for potatoes, because such chaos has been created in seed production that you never know what quality is and what is not! It was sold "original", and it was "second" and "third reproduction", imports of significant quantities and "originals" and "first reproductions", and in our terms we can produce, even export and receive significant foreign exchange funds, because a lot of money is given for importing that seed. Even on small areas, in the part of Serbia that is suitable for the production of seed potatoes, significant revenues can be earned. In addition to the control, responsibility exists in seed production. So far, there has been no order in that domain. It was sown in corn even the seeds from the garters, "not that the farmer had crowned and sown" but that various mangoons who engaged in the transport of the seed coronated corn from the garters, packed and sold. A lot of mercantile wheat has been turned into "seed" and sold as seed. It was also lost by the seed producer, the real one, because he couldn't sell good seed at a good price, he lost a farmer who planted bad seeds and lost state, which resulted in a low yield. And now there's a court dispute with me in the titel municipality that lasts 15 years between farmers and seed producers. Three times the court ruled for the benefit of the farmer, and the high court returned it to rejuvenation. Also, someone packed bad seeds, sold to farmers, and hundreds of acres of them were almost parlogous that year. This law also provides for the recognition of varieties. The Committee on Agriculture had a dilemma about the amendments, whether it was enough for two or three years. I voted for it to be two years, even though I'm as a farmer in the dilemma that both can pass in part. The study goes, however, on minimal parcels and results are obtained as they are obtained. If these small parcels prove to be quite good in two years, the hosts in Serbia are careful and will not plant large areas with this new seed after two years, and when they take small areas to sow, they will be examined on more districts and on larger areas, under different and agrotechnical and climate conditions, they will get a pass. And one more thing, I had a dilemma, if it's a mistake to let something go sooner than it's about time, it'd be a mistake, too, if it's a good thing, to keep it for a year longer. I wouldn't even talk about this. Many who are more endowed with the dictionary, yet I am more eternally disruptors than speaking. By amendments, I'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13804	The messenger of the people, Milorad Krstin, has the word, and let Nadika Momirov be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13805	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Ministers Ivana Dulic-Marković, as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, was told on one of these committees at the end of 2004 that the Ministry of Agriculture would propose around 25 laws in 2005. We, members of the SRS Committee, were skeptical, in order to, somewhere, in the middle of January 2005, however, be assured from the assistant ministers that the Ministry would propose 14 laws on agriculture and hope that 15 will be the law on cooperativeship. The proposal provides three reasons for the adoption of this law: that the adoption of this law should enable domestic seed producers to access the international market, to provide seeds of better quality to domestic consumers, and to comply with European Union rules. In order to achieve the first two objectives, the law did not even have to be passed, since domestic seed is present on the international market, and domestic consumers have quality seeds, which proves that in competition with leading seed companies present on the domestic market, domestic seed supports competition, especially as regards seeds of basic war cultures that occupy the largest agricultural areas. In order to meet these two objectives, the Government should take other measures, primarily economic ones, and there could be a fundamental observation that neither this government nor the previous government had taken measures to that end, but rather, they had taken measures to counter the effects that led to the asphyxiation of domestic seed production. This refers to the full opening of the domestic market for the entry of leading world seed companies and imports of foreign seed, and to the introduction of VAT, which is also paid to the seeds of agricultural plants; the non-stimulation of exports; the unresolved ownership status of scientific institutes, creators and processors of varieties and hybrids, agricultural plants; the failure to resolve the status of agricultural cells, one of which is privatised, some operate as social enterprises, others as a society of capital; the delaying of the state of ownership on agricultural land with agricultural enterprises; the failure to resolve the status of agricultural cooperatives that use significant areas of agricultural land, etc. The third objective remains to pass laws, to comply with European Union regulations. To that end, it is necessary to support the adoption of this law if the proposed provisions achieve this objective. It falls into the eyes that the legislator prescribes the conditions to meet the person in order to do work in the production, processing and transport of seeds, and does not prescribe conditions that must be met by the person in order to deal with the selection of seeds and the creation of new varieties, which means that everyone can do this job. The draft law has inconsistencies and shortcomings, i.e. poorly proposed solutions, so that the law should be taken with the improvement of poor solutions, i.e. the adoption of the proposed amendments. Inconsistencies in the law can be observed in the case of the provisions of Article 4(2) where transport seed is said to be (although the basis of the law says that the basic seed categories are intended for transport) under the control of the ministry, and the higher seed category is under the control of the fertiliser, which should mean that it is not in traffic. Furthermore, for all phases of seed production, i.e. all the participants in this production are prescribed conditions that the person should fulfil except for the job of testing and determining the quality of the seed, where he only says that it is an accredited laboratory, i.e. The applicable law prescribs the conditions for doing this job. That's how the bill promoter wants to monopolize this job, just for a particular person, as well as for the job of publishing labels. The law failed to regulate, that the Minister of Agriculture lays down seed quality standards as real seed matter. This should not be the responsibility of the second ministry under the Standardisation Act. In this regard, it should be regulated by the power of the Minister to prescribe, in a given year, lower quality standards for seed of a specified plant, as authorised by Article 4 in the last position, and to authorise the production of lower seed categories in the absence of a variety seed category. The reality of the moment of adoption of domestic seed law is that the owner of the variety mainly prescribes conditions for multiplying its variety, and that the other participants in the seed production, and is referring to the manufacturer, growers and traffickers (except for the tasks that the state has taken for itself and which it itself does and does not hire another person to do them), depends on the arrangement of the owner of the variety. This position is the result of their struggle for the market in competition with world-leading companies. This will lead producers, seeking their place under the sun, to become single breed maintainers, and primarily foreign seed, as representatives of foreign companies on the domestic market, leading to further collapse of domestic seminary. In particular, the delicate position of the producers is not resolved. By the way, the work of processing seeds of agricultural plants is not even provided for by the current Labour Classification Act, so part of the manufacturing companies regulated and entered into the court register as warfare, and part as traffic on a large scale. In accordance with Article 34 of the Treaty on The bill, only the seed grower is responsible for the quality of the seed, although he is one of the participants in this production, and in all stages of seed production affects the quality of the seed. Such a provision is particularly problematic when a contractor under contract with the owner of the variety performs only service work. So, they're going to get natural seed on the orders of the owner of the variety, they're going to do it, the other person is going to take samples from a seed party, the lab is going to examine the quality of the sample taken, and according to the report on the quality of the laboratory, the builder has to declare the seeds, the third person has to issue the label, and he's the only one responsible for the quality of the seed. The solution would be a solid responsibility of the producers and owners of the variety, which should be regulated by contracts concluded by the owner of the variety and the processor. We believe that the provision of the bill, that the label on seed bags is issued by a special professional organisation, is completely unnecessary, and we cannot understand what the objective of this provision is. If that's the case in other countries. I believe that this product includes the prices of another entity, and the process of issuing labels can create problems for the preparation of seeds for sale on the market. We believe we should have a seed law and a law on the recognition of newly created varieties of agricultural and forest plants. Another question is raised, what about the proposal for a law on the protection of newly created varieties of agricultural and forest plants that should be harmonised, as one of the colleagues said, from the UPOV Convention, and how familiar I am with the draft of the law is in the Serbia-Montenegro Community Assembly. Without this law, we cannot become members of UPOV, and thus our membership in the WTO, or the World Trade Organisation, be questioned. In every organised country, the law is being prepared by experts on seminary from agricultural universities and institutes with the ministry. I believe that it was only necessary to adapt our conditions to the seed law, which applies in the Member States of the European Union. We need to know that our science has created a large number of varieties and hybrids. For example, much more than the science of Italy, not to mention some other countries. It should have adequate legislation to comply with European Union legislation. Unfortunately, we are at the beginning of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13806	The People's Messenger Nadika Momirov has the word, and Dragoslav Milkovic should be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13807	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the law ahead of us is another set of laws that should help our country from the current conditions in the fastest and most efficient way into the community of European countries. Proposed by the Ministry of Agriculture, the ministry of a very exhausted area, which has been "priorised" behind us for many years only when taken from peasants, but not when it was necessary to help him create a new value and restore spent funds and technologies to create new values. This ministry, although conscious of the position in which our agriculture has long been located, has set out to solve the problem systemically and truly as a problem and to take our agriculture to the position it belongs to in Europe. This ministry has taken a decisive turn in the process of revitalising this branch, with a clear goal of showing that it is not essential how much something has been destroyed or weakened, but whether or not we want to restore it or raise it to the level that it normally belongs to in Europe or not. I think that we have a duty to recognize these intentions and actions, to leave the day-to-day policies that, in some of us, may force us to overlook and focus on some other criteria. Since it is clear to all of us that our adaptation to European standards is not only important to the citizens of Europe, but is important only to ourselves, I will refer to several other important arguments that point to the necessity of adopting this law. The Republic of Serbia has optimal ecological conditions for seed production, and our country is one of the most famous plant and genetic resources in the world. It is very important to enable domestic seed producers to access the international market. It is also important to provide seeds of better quality for the domestic market. This law can make it possible and its effects will thus make agricultural production more successful. The useful paper adopted by this law is the regulation of how seeds are marked in transport. This ensures that each seed category has a special type of label. The law accurately defines who can control the production. The effect of these measures is to bring order to the whole process of production and transport of seeds, which certainly makes it easier for everyone to work in production, or agriculture. Article 5 states that the production of seed can be a business business, i.e. a company registered in the Register of Seed Producers, Dispersion, Mycellia of edible and medicinal mushrooms. The exceptional production of seeds may be carried out by natural persons on the basis of a concluded agreement on co-operation with the seed producer, which allows for a type of mentoring in seed production, reduces the ability to create monopolistic positions in seed production, and promotes new producers to engage in this business and acquire production without fear of loss of quality. This law also gives the seed producer the possibility of examining, researching and supplementing varieties in cases where an outsider is looking for some sort of variety that is not listed in the register. This provided that such a sophisticated variety went to another country from which it was ordered. The issue of seed imports has been resolved in this law in the best way possible. First, primary agricultural producers, which use seeds in their fields, and then domestic seed producers, and importers of foreign seeds, were protected. All of this previously said to us as MPs obliges us to make this law simply because it is a people's good, because it represents another step towards equating our peasants with rich and productive peasants from other countries in Europe. I have to remind you, it's not the Ministry of Agriculture that came up with the first idea that our peasant would belong side by side with a French, Austrian or any other peasant in Europe. That's what our peasant had long earned and acted like, until all sorts of nationalists, lobbyists, frauds came along, so they distracted him very well in this. The Ministry of Agriculture is trying to restore to our peasant the dignity that always belonged to him and we are obliged to help.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13808	National MP Dragoslav Milkovic has a word, and let MP Milica Vojic-Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13809	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have been addressing you to the DOS Group since you came to power in 2000, you've done nothing to revive the economy and agriculture, but by your policy you've led a huge number of working-worthy people to lose their jobs, to keep the entire families on the verge of poverty, because they have nowhere to work and to earn basic living supplies. A large number of people are forced to deal with agriculture in one of the most estensive ways, because the state does nothing to allow these beginners in agricultural production to have all the necessary conditions, as these people thus support families and educate children. You're not doing anything to revive the village. We know that without a strong village, there is no strong state. Our villages were relaxed, destroyed, abandoned, only old men and women remained, young people went after bread with their stomachs, especially the mountainous area in southern Serbia. It's sad and sad, houses are locked, locks everywhere, and people are nowhere to be found. This government needs to urgently draw up a strategy plan, take appropriate measures, make superhuman efforts, pass appropriate laws, to bring our villages back to life. They are still healthy, with clean and healthy water and unpolluted nature. By reviving the village, by producing healthy food, Serbia will become a rich country, or become an exporter of food, because Serbia today has a huge potential for the development of agricultural production. Today Serbia imports all sorts of things: apples, beans, fish, beef and animal meat. In 2004 alone, $37m was spent. Serbia has huge water potential for thousands and thousands of ponds (strams and carps). Why do we spend these foreign exchanges when we have a condition for the development of our agriculture? The minister turns out to be funny when I say this. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have one of the proposed laws in the field of agriculture from the most diverse area of production, processing and transport of seeds. We Serbian radicals believe that this area should and should be arranged, because without well-organised and quality production of seeds there is no progress in the development of agriculture. We know that only with quality seed material can we achieve top results in agriculture. I don't see any reason why we shouldn't tighten our control in the production of processing and transport of seed material. This law isn't good enough. If we are to get close to developed countries in this area, I am not referring to legislation, but to the production of quality seed material. If we think about raising the quality of the seed to a higher level, we think that people who control the production and do the seed should be more professional. In this draft law, Article 13, states that control of seed production i.e. that the company involved in the production of seed should have an employee who has completed a agricultural college, a direction of warring, vegetable, general or other direction. I can't help but say that these people aren't professional enough for the area of seminary, because they all ended up in a general direction, where very little was said about production, and since this area is of paramount importance for the further development of our agriculture, i.e. If our agriculture is based on our quality seed material, and not on the side, professional control should be performed by persons who are closely specialised in this area. In Article 76(4), the process of recognising the variety states that the minister educates the expert commission. In our opinion, all commissions are professional, some less, some more, but it needs to be precisely determined how many members this commission has and who would do it. Whether they're doctors from that area or just engineers, that should be understood. It does not matter whether the final results of the study are evaluated by people who have acquired or are beginners through their years of work in the area. As far as criminal provisions are concerned, Article 100 of this Law, when it comes to natural or responsible persons, is not quite precise and in this sense we Serbian radicals believe that they are too sharp. When it comes to persons working in retail facilities, fines between 5,000 and 500,000 dinars are provided if they hold seeds in a retail facility with the previous date on the declaration. I wonder, and what if under the employer's pressure he holds that seed, who in which case should be punished? And a legal and physical person or just a legal person? How do you prove that a natural person is not a responsible person? We Serbian radicals believe that it should stand if the seller informs the employer in writing that the store has seed with the previous date, and the employer does nothing, that the same thing should be withdrawn from traffic, the criminal measures should be borne by the employer, or the legal person. This law is not sufficiently precise and good enough for the quality of this area of production, processing and transport of seeds because there is a lot of uncertainty both in the production process and in transport, then in the process of examining and recognising new varieties. The SRS has submitted a number of amendments to "repair" this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13810	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic, and let Stevica Dedjanski be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13811	Dear President, distinguished gentlemen from the Ministry, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Republic of Serbia has extraordinary ecological conditions for the development of the seminary. In addition, it has an extremely rich resource for plant genetic potential. Unfortunately, there are not many of us in the international seed market, and I can say that I believe that one of the reasons is that we do not have one specialised law that would cover this area and that would be compatible with European legislation, and unfortunately, without such a law, we cannot be present on the European market. The importance of producing high-quality and certified seeds of varieties of known genetic identity from the point of view of agricultural production, the preservation of genetic resources, the promotion of seminary, consumer protection and the environment, are all the conditions that have forced us to create a new law that would cover this area. Since there are very significant differences between these two areas, it was very necessary to separate these areas. This unique law in practice has caused enough problems, it has been quite inapplicable, so it is really necessary for it to be separated. I must commend the ministry's efforts to cover this area with specialized laws so far. So far, such two laws have been passed. It is the Law on fruity material of fruit trees, vines and hops and other law that specializes, which is the Law on reproductive material of forest trees. Now we have this third law to cover this area. The law I spoke about earlier does not adequately provide for a seed category, which is a basic condition for the production of healthy, tested and controlled seeds, the release from diseases and pests, which is certainly why we could not reach the European market today. It is also important to provide seeds of better quality and domestic consumers, which will be very quickly reflected in the quality and success of agricultural production in our country. From all of this, it is clear how important it is to regulate the area of seminary, to protect the interests of both producers and consumers, and to comply with similar laws in Europe. The bill before us is in line with the EU and Council of Europe directives and they regulate, uniformly regulate, recognise varieties, certification, transport and the seed market within the EU. This law regulates the conditions, manner of production, processing, use of transport, import and testing of the quality of seed of agricultural plants, as well as recognition of newly created domestic varieties, approval and introduction into the production of foreign varieties and registration of varieties of agricultural plants in the Register of agricultural plant varieties. Of course, it seems to me that the most important thing here is to say: that the provisions of this law do not apply to the production and transport of genetically modified seed of agricultural plants, to seed samples and are exchanged for the purpose of testing, processing and carrying out experiments, to samples of plant genes, to the production of flower varieties, to medicinal, aromatic, spice and decorative plants, and to the mixture of grass for parks and sports grounds. So, I have to point out, it doesn't apply to genetically modified seed. On the basis of the specific conditions and as regards the quality and origin of the seed, five categories of seed are allocated, primarily, basic, certified seeds of the first generation, second generation and production seed. It is important to say that for each of these categories a clear precise definition and categories and their names, everything is in line with EU directives. The paper in the law is also a way of marking seeds in transport, because each category has a special type of label. The law also specifies who controls the production of certain categories of seed. The paper also states that the production of seed can be done by companies, i.e. other legal entities and entrepreneurs, provided that they are entered in the Register of Seed Producers, Dispersion and Medicinal Plants. The production of seed may also be of exceptional concern to a natural person on the basis of a contract on co-operation with a seed producer, and the seed produced in that co-operation is considered to be a product of the producer. The already mentioned producer's registry is also a fruit of EU harmonisation. The manufacturer shall keep a record book of the seed produced with data on the quantity of seed received, the method of production, the type and date of the work carried out. The manufacturer must also produce only seeds of varieties entered in the Agricultural Plant Register. The production of seeds in other countries, and the domestic order was not regulated by law, it was handled from case to case. The area is now regulated, as it is defined what documentation is needed in the case of seed imports, marking seeds during transportation to the country for the purpose of finishing and packing, which is also a provision that is in line with EU directives. I've got to do a dipression here, especially I've been inspired by what my predecessor said about what's being imported into this country about seeds, destruction and everything else. As someone who deals with flowers and plants, I'll show you one packaging, it's a bag, where it's clearly stated that this country for flowers (and that's imports from Germany) imports from a company called "Sema". All those who came to the privatisation boards are familiar with the name of a businessman from this country who owns "Semena", or who bought "Sema", the man who offered us as a phenomenal solution to salad growing. He also began to offer us solutions on which land we could grow that salad. This is the packaging for the country for flowers, but there is the same packaging, so there is a country imported from Germany and for agricultural breakdown, so for vegetables. To go back to this law. Seeds can be imported and exported to a company, a company, another legal entity and an entrepreneur, provided that they are registered in the Register. It is imported only in the original packaging and must have a declaration issued by the competent authorities of the exporting country, phytosertificate and seed variety certificates. Imported quantities of seeds are kept in records as prescribed by the minister. So we have before us a third law in a series that defines this area completely. We have the Law on fruity fruity material of fruity fruits, vines and hops, we have the Law on reproductive material of forest trees, and now we'll have the seed law. This law is precise, direct, applicable in practice and in line with EU and Council of Europe directives. It should enable and facilitate domestic seed producers access to the international market, but also allow the quality of seeds on the domestic market to be improved and improved, which will certainly reflect the quality and quantity of our country's agricultural production. Because of everything I've stated, the DSS parliamentary group will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13812	The People's Messenger Stevica Dedjanski has the word, and let Gordana Cabric be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13813	Gentlemen, as we have heard, the Minister's explanation lists three reasons for the adoption of this law, and this was written in an explanation. First, that the legislation will allow seed producers to access the international market, secondly, to provide seeds of better quality and, thirdly, to comply with EU rules. For the first two goals, as we heard earlier, and one of my predecessors talked about it, there is no need to pass the law, because domestic seed is now present on the international market, and domestic producers have quality seeds, which has been seen in the present period with already present world-leading companies, so those who are present with us. To meet these two objectives, it is necessary to take some other measures, mainly economic measures, which will help our domestic producers in a number of ways, by not opening the market for leading companies to import what and how much they want, although all of this is not good quality, as we have noticed in the past period. So, we're not going to introduce VAT on plant seed, we also need to stimulate exports, and not asphyxiate it as so far, we're not going to allow genetically modified soybeans, or seeds that have been imported. I'm afraid this won't be as much of a scam as it has been in the past, during the former government. It was in Vrsec where I came from, it was in other cities. Farmers who were brought to the very edge of existence by DOS policy asked for help, and the government formed some NGOs. In Vrsec it was "Agrora", I don't know what they were called in other cities. They were looking for people who do their whole life in this business, help, and if they were raising cattle, they were told that they were doing bad things because they don't know how to do their job, because they don't have a business plan, because, I don't know what else, not because the government allowed free imports of everything and everything, and even genetically modified soy sauce. So they forced them to grow snails, chinchillas and so on, and then, according to democratic changes, expert chinchillas appeared. chinchilla experts, snail experts, and convinced the peasants that their future was in it, and that they were dropping what they were doing so far, because this is now "a new time". Our couples, of course, thought these people weren't normal, so I can tell you out of contact with them, and that served, and now I'm pulling the parallel, destroying domestic livestock and liberating the market. Also, as always, it served to help, for example, under a cloak of help. Buy a computer, put some office, and put the rest of the money in his pockets. I'm just saying this isn't like that. So, in law itself, it enters the eyes that the proposer prescribes the conditions to meet the person in order to do work on the production, processing and transport of seeds, and not prescribe conditions that must be met by persons in order to deal with the selection of seeds and the creation of new varieties, which means that everyone can do this job. I don't know if it's accidental or deliberately missed, but it stands as a fact. My colleagues have spoken and will also talk about the inconsistencies and shortcomings of the bill, i.e. on the poor proposed solutions that exist, so that the law should be passed, but with the improvement of the bad solutions i.e. By adopting the proposed amendments to the SRS, and we expect to hear the reasons for these amendments in the coming period so that they can be adopted to vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13814	The word has a folk MP, Gordana Cabric, and Vitomir Plužarevic, after the break.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13815	Mr. President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, seeding is a branch of agricultural production that we could be proud of in the previous years. However, in the last ten years, there has been a stalemate in the development of this agricultural activity and our lagging behind in competitiveness on the world and European market. Today's law on the agenda should correct these shortcomings and allow our seed producers to be better placed on the world and European market, thereby providing better profit for our seed producers. This law should also ensure the protection of seed producers and also the protection of the environment. In fact, there is also an example of the link between the Law on Sanitary Control where the phytosanitary quality of the seeds imported should be taken into account. What's new and what your law needs to provide is the categorization of a seed that has never existed before. This categorisation has been done in accordance with EU rules, not only in order to implement and comply with EU standards but also in order to facilitate this. so our seed producers can get a chance to show up on the world market. The marking of seeds is also a newspaper in this law. The marking will be done in such a way that each label will have a particular colour and mark a specific class of seed. Namely, it will be basic seeds, first and second generations, etc. The question is, what is this law going to change now in practice? What seed producers will experience, i.e. whether one agricultural producer can as a natural person be a seed producer. It will not be deprived of that right, but subject to the conclusion of a contract with a seed producer registered in the seed production register, representing, or with a company authorised to produce seed. What is most interested in our agricultural producers, i.e. consumers, seed purchasers, is who is responsible for the quality of the seed. Importers or seed producers are primarily responsible for the quality of the seed. This will provide control by the Ministry, not only control when it comes to the new variety, but periodic controls for which the Ministry is in charge, which will be financed by the seed producer, if the control concludes that the seed is not correct, and the Ministry will bear the costs if the seed is correct and suitable for market placement. Penal provisions are also provided for for those who do not respect these normatives, for both natural persons and legal persons, and we believe that this will regulate the market in this part of agricultural production.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13816	Thank you. So, the break is up to 15.00 hours. The afternoon session will be led by Vice-President Vojislav Mihailovic, the first to have the word of MP Vitomir Plužarevic, and Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13817	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. 141 MPs participate in the afternoon work. Please confirm the quorum. I understand we have a quorum to work with. The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic, after whom Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13818	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal for a seed law is not an act that would improve the situation in agriculture. This law puts domestic producers and producers in an unequal position, especially the degradation of institutes and institutions in our country compared to other European countries. The ideas that come to us and come from the European Union are such that they do everything they can to minimise our resources and thus allow their seeds to enter our area, so this is also happening with this seed law. We were the first, we had the profession, we had the science, we had the facilities, we had the land properties that solved this area in a way that our varieties of corn, wheat and other species represented the right quality on our and world market. Given the quality of these varieties in our country and in the world, I will not now list large and small seed producers, but I would like to remind the legislators of this law that we need a strategy in this area to focus on our own brains and own resources and thus create varieties that serve us in a new reproduction. I believe science agrees with that, too. I think of all regions that are heterogeneous in our country and as such must be consistent with both seed species and varieties. I mean the mountain-mounted area, the plainlands and everything. In the light of this law, Chapter V, it is said that so far seed production could be carried out by legal and physical persons, which allegedly resulted in a large number of producers without vocational education, and hence, the production of non-quality and healthy seeds. Obviously, in the absence of arguments, the proposer is a claim that is not based on practice, because so far production, processing and transport included: institutes, institutions, institutions and expert experts in Europe and the world; that seed production was done by legal persons, businesses, entrepreneurs, or seed producers, as well as natural persons based on a contract to co-operate with seed producers, with the control of competent registered institutes and others. The proposer denies the justification of the argument given because, in Article 5 of this proposal, it adopts a text regulated by earlier law. It is true that the agricultural branch is in an invisible situation, but not because we do not have good law, professional seminaries and good technology, but because our agriculture, as well as the other branches of the economy, are destroyed by the arrival of your experts of finance, privatisation and other October revolutions. These experts who appear daily from any area we, as the Serbian Radical Party, criticise and show them from this assembly pay phone that what they do is no good for our people and citizens. So this law has the same comment, we are now criticising it and trying to make our amendments, and MPs have written over 40 amendments, fix. Academic Dragan Skoric makes his comment on this law and I will repeatedly quote and use it here. Skoric says "Our hybrids have been tested in the world and Europe for more than two million hectares. They're newly-sad hybrids. You know what the surface is, that surface gives quality and results in top-of-the-line norms. Now, here lies the story that our hybrids should be removed from that surface and introduced by some new ones that are being offered to us. "Now in Europe our profession is marginalized and wants one move to destroy all experience and all knowledge, and to forget them. Acadamik Škoric, a sunflower expert has 89 sunflower hybrids and he is incomparable there. It was this proposed group offering this law that did not have time to consult. Look at the wonders. Academic was on the Committee on Agriculture, and he only watched silently as his students now knew it better than he did, and in this context, there is much that can be learned as a real lesson in this area. It is also true that exports of seeds to other European countries are not only difficult, but almost controversial. Is it a coincidence that this phenomenon begins to occur since the arrival of DOS to power? It's interesting that the victory date of October's heroes always coincides with the defeat of our economy. In the world and Europe, before these victories, hybrid seeds of NS and PP were most wanted because of their genetic potential, but also because of their very high quality and healthy seed, developed and packaged according to the world's highest standards, in our contemporary centres in Serbia, for example, in Sombor, Sremska Mitrovica, Kickindi and other places. Our future seed production course should be Russia, China, India, Africa and Asia. As Serbian radicals, we were always directed in that direction. In those areas, we've left a trail as top agricultural experts. We're not going to be taken away by Europe, because their seeds are already somewhere in the Shida and they're putting pressure on this space. This space provides opportunities for our seed and profession to employ all its capacities. Our institutes in Novi Sad and Belgrade, with the help of regional control and laboratory research institutions, have done the most quality work. The drying technology of corn seeds was applied, with the effects at an enviable level. Academic Skoric has his objections to this seed law. Ambassador Rafaelovic mentions the profession. Because of this profession, I would like to read some remarks from the Academy of Skoric. He, among other things, has a lot of objections to this law. If I were to comment on all his remarks here, I'd take a lot of time to my MP group, but I'm just going to take a look at some very important ones. Chapter XI should be a special law. Our science has created a large number of varieties of hybrids, more than science in Italy, not to mention some other countries. We should have an adequate legislative regulation that will be in line with European Union legislation. Unfortunately, we are at the beginning of Europe. Secondly, all European countries have a special institution of national importance dealing with this important problem. Why don't we have that? Who cares if Serbia is part of developed Europe? Who wants to put science in Serbia on the margins if it gives results? Who works for multinational companies? I believe that a separate law should first regulate the establishment of a national institute for the recognition and protection of new varieties, agricultural and forest plants. Why don't we look up to the neighboring countries? It's not far from Osijek, where there's such a modern institution. Someone should go and see if he's far away from Budapest or somewhere else. Then, Professor Škoric mentions the National Institute, in order for him to, for example. Financed. It suggests that the funding of the institute be three floors, that the first floor be 50% from the budget, second floor to be the funding of the institute, and that, after three or four years or more, it is regulated and achieved by its financial and other activities. Then, here he warns and makes a quality comment about international contacts, uses all the standards that have already been and for which there are roads and then organisation of the institute, then, control of the work of the National Institute. Finally, it gives a scheme that is very good and in this scheme it points to the possibilities of new ways of this law. The specific remarks, and I'll use them when I explain the amendments, because we have a lot of amendments, the professor is in about a dozen, 12 or more amendments, and he even suggested that which member should change and supplement, so I'll take the time and use it for these amendments. I only have one comment on genetically modified plant and animal species. The important thing is that it always stands out when it comes to agriculture. As a state, we didn't do anything in that field. We started something in Vojvodina, and then we stopped as if by command, and the command came. Perhaps the citizens of Serbia know from where. Those who need to know know know that, too. They heard. The goal of all these world seed producers is to pollute our land. There was also a comment on how this small amount of land is being poisoned or polluted. This is also the goal of all these seed producers who want to create such an ambience in this space, so that in some future, they can place on our market herbicides, fungicides, insecticides and all that we don't have today, and we know that this chemical complex in Serbia has been destroyed. It's a comment and a message from this and all of these laws that bring us something new, and it's something new that citizens probably feel and see in perspective.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13819	The word has the People's MP Rafaelovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13820	I'm sorry, but this is a nice opportunity for me to say something I missed in the opening statement. In addition to the institute mentioned, Mr. Škorić is one of the leading sunflower selectors, and there is every honour, but we also have another institute that is also large and that is very close to us: the Institute of Corn "Zemun Polje. My neighbor, one of the leading experts, lives in Jovanovic, works in it. They had a chance, they were looking at the law and they didn't have any amendments, because they are aware that this law and all the other laws are leading us right into the European Union. And the laws that will come, as a law on the protection of intellectual property, and all others, will allow our seeds to be recognized. Once we enter the European Union, it will be the seeds of the European Union. It is symptomatic that a group of experts, selectors, wanted to be incorporated into this law, and it does not belong there. The others figured it out and the other institute didn't have any objections. He's also big and important, and I'm sure they'd say something if there was something in this law that bothered them.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13821	Whose replication?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13822	At the presentation of Mr. Rafaelovic, who is not Mr. Skorić, he is Mr. Rafaelovic, who appeared as if he were Mr. Skoric! We still don't have one in the National Assembly, it might be in some next session. I replicate to him, because you, Mr. Vice President, did not listen at all to what he was saying, as an expert on agriculture, for forestry and for this law we are talking about today, Mr. Vitomir Plužarevic, a Serbian radical, quite outside of the Rules of Procedure gave the replica to Mr. Rafaelovic. Mr. Rafaelovich, you can go to your seat because it is not according to the Rules of Procedure that you are standing there so insolently, and you are not Škoric. Since you told me to answer, I'll tell you that I really don't know whose attitudes you represent here. You say you're a farmer and you talk about agriculture, but once from Batic's perspective, and now from the perspective of this parliamentary group you're in. If you want to replicate any Serbian radicals, not us who don't do agriculture, but we have relatives or we run a country origin, or an expert like Mr. Plužarevic, speak the language of fact. Don't twist the thesis and don't abuse the pay phone, just because you think this law is suitable for you as a big farmer, imagine, Rafaelovic, to show up! Let him put you on the list of your parliamentary group, so use your presentation in principle, as I will according to the amendments, and I will not in principle explain and say that this law is not good. It goes to the soul of the vice president, who has given you the opportunity out of the Rules of Procedure to come out and try to challenge something that can't be challenged, because everything Mr. Vitomir Plužarevic has said, from the first letter to the last letter, is true. Behind that stands the entire SRS, and trust me, a huge number of farmers in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13823	We can interpret that Mr. Rafaelovic used a breach of the Rules of Procedure, that he was misread. If not, if it was a replica, then you had no right to a replica. Which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13824	Article 100. I'm simply misread, so take any member you want. I enjoyed listening to you and watching you. What matters is, I had the right to a replica and the replica wasn't to deny what Mr. Plužarevic said. Fortunately, not all Serbian radicals are. So, I very much respect Mr. Plužarevic and we work very well with the Committee on Agriculture. I did not introduce myself as Mr. Škorić, but I said I respected his profession and his knowledge. You had no right to reply, because there is no replica in the Rules of Procedure. As for Dragan Rafaelovic, ask Mr Neskovic and other members of the SRS what kind of farmer and man Dragan Rafaelovic is. So much so you know, because you don't know. Some of your colleagues and your bosses know. So I just said that there was another institute that had no objections and that this set of laws, when it was passed, would bring us closer to the European Union, and as far as I know, that's the aim of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13825	Here you are, MP Plužarevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13826	I just came out to replicate in the context that I didn't want to favor any institute or any institution in particular, but I just pointed out by propo comments to that institute, so if someone misunderstood me, it wasn't the goal and it wasn't my wish.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13827	Whose replication? Come on out, but please, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13828	Mr. Mihailovic, you have nothing to ask of me, if your problem is how to divide these 3%, because they have changed the matter, you take care of it, and let me rephrase the Rules of Procedure, because Mr. Rafaelovic has called on Article 100, although nothing has been offensive. He spoke directly to me and I have the right to replicate and tell him. Absolutely the same are all Serbian radicals in all Serbian countries. And those living in Serbia, and those living in Montenegro, Republika Srpska, and those who unfortunately had to come from the occupied Republika Srpska. All are moral, honorable, honest, honest patriots, patriots, hardworking people, but the difference between Serbian radicals and you, but not you as Rafailovic alone, but all the furniture you belong to, and thought of the entire government today in Serbia, is huge, and what you will see in the next elections. The difference between you, as one of the farmers, and the rest of you in the country or in your environment, is also great, but you leave it for the court of your neighbors, or people where you choose to decide and assess in the next election, and trust me that the assessment will be that way, not because of you, but because of the society you are in, and that you will no longer be able to speak from this pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13829	The word has the People's MP Zoran Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13830	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, I was very pleased with the morning discussion. It seems to me that all MPs who came from the position of government defended this law and opposition MPs, who naturally attacked and challenged this law, were still moving in the coordinates, let me say, the professions and this law itself, but this discussion went one way that I never wanted to talk about when we talked about any topic. I want to contribute to this debate. If all Serbian radicals are called Skoric, then that's fine. I want to show on this case that the SRS does not have an agrarian programme, the seed law is not built on opinions, but based on one letter from Mr. Skoric, whose authority I do not want to dispute, a man has a grudge against this law, therefore, only on that letter builds the whole story here when we talk about the seed law and when we talk about agriculture at all. There's evidence. That memo arrived in the SRS and DS. Mr. Skoric disagreed with this law and sent it to opposition parties, therefore to both opposition parties, to be challenged on the basis of this information provided by him. DS representatives have not yet participated in the debate, at least I haven't heard, so I didn't see that they used the arguments sent by that fax, but what they use Serbian radicals from words to words is actually contained in that memo by Mr. Skoric. The second proof, amendments submitted by the SRS and amendments submitted by the DS, are almost identical. So, these amendments were proposed by Mr. Skoric. I don't know if he's your member, but I'm saying you don't have a programme for agriculture and you don't know what this seed bill really represents. If you know, then go out for this pay phone and stop attacking and politicizing such an important law, when we talk about agriculture, because here we're talking about agriculture, we're not talking about October 5th, and we're not talking about what, but this is a professional law. Come out and tell me what your concept is, from word to word, tell me how you see how this area should be arranged. This law, and I'll be brief and I'll end up, first of all, putting the buyer in the centre and protecting the buyer. Our consumers and our customers, and those who deal with agriculture, have the right to choose the highest quality seeds. That's what this law allows them to do. This law is compatible with European legislation. He's bringing us closer to the European Union and I don't see what's going on here. So if you have any objections, don't just point out and say what you don't want, say how you see this area, and then let's face the arguments the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13831	The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13832	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to replicate Mr. Nikolic. If we stand for tolerance dialogue and tolerance, I don't think there was room for this kind of discussion. The SRS absolutely has its own agrarian programme, has a sufficient quantity of professional and qualified people in a party who know the area of agriculture. Normally, we'll show our program the moment we get the trust of the people and come to power. By the logic of things, the opposition, we are now the opposition party, we have the right, and all of you in the ruling set have to understand and accept as a toleranceal debate, we have the right and obligation to criticise the legal solutions you offer. It is true that in the debate we use part of the material and memo that was delivered by academics Skorić and by the Institute of Ratio and Vrtivstvo from Novi Sad. You're not going to challenge my colleagues and me, all of what we're saying in front of that institution. It is a scientific institute for warfare and vegetables, the leading institution in this country in the area of varieties and total production of plant seed. If they only have over 300 varieties of wheat, I don't know how many varieties of sunflowers, soybeans, corn and other industrial plants, so if researchers and directors of that institute have certain and concrete objections to the bill, so I guess we have the right to perform here and defend. What is the government's programme (which represents this parliamentary majority) and other ministries? I do not want to deliberately apostrophe the Ministry of Agriculture and highlight it in some negative context, since we are talking about the law in the area of agriculture. As the government, which is the executive authority of this assembly, works and how happy the people are, I think they will be able to check themselves relatively quickly in the elections expected soon, and then we will see and cross what kind of programmes there are and who will get the trust of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Until then, I appeal to a toleranceal debate and that, as in the afternoon, we are having this debate in the principle of this law in one tolerated atmosphere, without pointing out something that is not here, or is not correct, stated, or misread someone's discussion. Be assured that the SRS has quality not only agrarian programs, but also many other programmes in the field of social action, social rights and economy, certainly finance. The people will soon, I hope, see to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13833	You're out of time. The Rules of Procedure mentioned before you, yes, there is a People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13834	Mr. Zoran Nikolic's recent discussion is a violation of article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because it is unclear on what basis Mr Nikolic has reported to speak. I realized, it was called, that he was given the word to speak in the principle debate on the Semen Law proposal, but he didn't say a single word about the law. He was talking about something that had nothing to do with what he was supposed to say. I guess he prepared another discussion because he didn't know what to say before that. I don't know if Mr. Skoric, mentioned here by Mr. Nikolic, a member of the SRS, but I know that Vukovic from Zemun is a member of the DSS. That's what I told you yesterday about him, giving the citizens of Zemun his current account to pay some sort of fee so they wouldn't crash the facility. Mr. Nikolic, I haven't noticed that the DSS has a concept of solving problems in agriculture. What we have today in the debate is the concept of G17 plus. For your information, follow the little media, listen as Mladjan Dinkic tells you that the G17 is the motor power of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, that it is the only part of the government that works (and that is what Mladjan Dinkic says). Now, that engine is your coalition's problem. So, Mr. Mihailovich, please, this isn't the first time you've taken care of the Rules of Procedure. If you have sat down as chairman, then you should know at least a few members who are required for the normal course of the session. Do not allow MPs to break the Rules of Procedure, or speak what is not the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13835	National MP Nikolic, replica. Ms. Radeta, let me tell you, Mr. Nikolic has been reported regularly for the principle debate. Please, it's really not right to say that he didn't stick to the subject, because your MPs often do.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13836	I don't know why you're worried that G17 is the motor power of Vojislav Kostunica. We don't mind the G17 being a motor power in the government of Vojislav Kostunica, but we know who's the engine's head, what's the axle and whose hands are the gearbox. It's in the hands of Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica. It's not my fault I caught you copying. So, indeed, if this is my sin, I apologize, but simply the compatibility of the amendments submitted by DS and submitted by you indicates that it came from one center, which came from Mr. Škoric, and that is not disputed. That's exactly what I'm saying. You relyed solely on Mr. Skoric's opinion under this law. You don't have it in your program. You don't know how to solve strategically important issues in the area of agriculture. At least I've never seen it before, and that's not what you've been trying to replicate here. Will the SRS win and take most of it, my God, that's the people's will. It is not a Serb people, like many other peoples, but not to mention, it is not as rare for the Serbian people to vote for someone, so he repented afterwards. Two, what does that have to do with anything? Maybe you'll win without the agrarian program. If you come to power, you'll show what you know, but here I'm telling you, come on, bring out your program. Tell me how you are experiencing agrarian policy in the light of European integration or against European integration, so let's see if we open the other side of that medal. Let's see what your agrarian program is. I said it and I didn't get an answer from you here. I think that citizens, at least those who watch, will know that they appreciate it too, so to see that it's not enough, that's the easiest thing to criticise, that's your job, you're the opposition. And that criticism has its limits. Again, the proof that I was right is when you Mrs. Radeta re-launched some October 5th, you restarted some names. Believe me, I have nothing to do with those names, nor does it have anything to do with this subject. Let's talk about the seed. Here you go, gentlemen. Radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13837	The Belief of Radet's breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13838	Re-injured member 100. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The MP is obliged to tell the truth about this speaker. Mr. Mihailovic, you said that very often the MPs of the SRS speak beyond the subject and beyond the Rules of Procedure. It's on your soul again. If that's what happened when you chair the session, then again it means you don't know how to chair the session and then get out of the way. There's a vice president of the National Assembly who's not here right now, or there's two people who would know how to do it. This is Mr. Stefan Zankov and Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic. As for the SRS programme, regarding agriculture, Mr. Nikolic, you don't have to go out, the SRS has a 100-point program from 15 years ago. That SRS program hasn't changed. We are the only party in Serbia that has a serious programme for all areas of life. You, sir, show your client's program. What you're saying is that you don't mind Mladjan Dinkic running the Serbian government, that's your problem again. I didn't say that because it bothers me. The more Mladjan Dinkic comes into Serbia's government, the sooner the government goes, Mr. Nikolic. As far as your discussion is concerned, I didn't notice that you made something about the seed bill, or the bill. All the MPs of the SRS spoke exclusively of the subject. All our amendments are exclusively on the subject, and none of the DSS MPs came out to talk about this, because you did not copy it, but you did not read what Mladjan Dinkic, through the minister, handed over to you, through the Serbian government, and brought it to this National Assembly. You don't know what the G17 is doing to you in the government, you don't know what the bill is proposing, but I'm still saying it's not an SRS problem. The SRS, thank God, no such problems, nor will they have them. Our agriculture programme, and in the other 100 points, is a programme that Serbian citizens accept, whether you like it or not. Serbian citizens are wondering. Serbian citizens choose the party's programme and we Serbian radicals have no dilemma and we have no fear in the next elections. More than 50% of Serbian citizens will be identified for the SRS programme, and within the framework of the programme, be sure, we will know and we want to solve all the problems that have accumulated in the area of agriculture. We're not just gonna speak out loud, say what we're never gonna do. On the contrary, we Serbian radicals do what we say and do. This was seen and seen by Serbian citizens in many local self-governments, where Serbian radicals are in power and soon at the level of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13839	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mika Vlaovic, MP of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13840	The Rules of Procedure in Rule 98 have been injured. The speaker from the pay phone can talk about what's on the agenda. There's been charges brought here that someone was making a payment on someone's jury account. This isn't the prosecution, gentlemen, this is the Serbian Parliament, and the fact that someone broke the law, say in the prosecutor's office when you're Democrats. There are organs that do that. I went out not to stand up to you, not to God, I don't want a fight. I'm a farmer and this is just another law regarding agriculture and villages. You and I both swear that we want to help these farmers. You claim to have a program in 100 points, but it's not Serbia just ours, and it's yours, gentlemen. I'm going to ask you one more thing, whether our enemies are willing to fight or to get along. I'm sure they like us to fight. I don't want a fight, I'd like a style, because the style would take Serbia out of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13841	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13842	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 28. The Rules of Procedure and Abuse in the conduct of the session by Mr Mihailovic, although also fellow Radeta and I warned him not to do so. Namely, Mr. Mihailovich, you should take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, which tells you the indent of Article 28. You don't do this for a simple reason, because you don't follow the course of the session or anything anyone tells anyone. Probably because you consider it your obligation to give a word to another member of the ruling structure to carry out counterarguments at the expense of Serbian radicals. You had no basis to give a word to Mr. Vlaovic, who used his time for the principle debate, and the whole problem was because Mr. Nikolic of the DSS time for the principle debate devoted, but quite wrong, the SRS. And then he went so far as to convince us that Vojislav Kostunica was one of the Shumaher brothers. Whether Ralph or Michael is, I really don't know, but if he said Kostunica with a controller and a shapeshifter was capable of driving the formula and that Serbian citizens believe it, that Kostunica in his best dreams could not believe he was capable of such a thing. If you are already talking about the fact that Serbian radicals do not follow what is happening in the area of agriculture, I will tell you that things are in municipalities and cities in Serbia. So because of the banking policy conducted by Mladjan Dinkic, because of the fact that agricultural loans are still unfavourable and where they have a low interest rate at the annual level, this government is unable to secure the placement of these products, because in the overall export structure, which is catastrophic, which tells you that the external trade deficit is now seven or eight billion euros, agriculture is very little involved, but not with processed, but with raw materials or semi-processed products. Then we return to what the SRS is going to do – to create an opportunity for these products to be processed, not for Slovenians to say that their national brand is "ajvar", when we know it is "a Serbian national dish". It happens that you, ladies and gentlemen, at a congregation restaurant today, eat and use a salad that comes from imports and that comes from countries that were able to give credit to their farmers or vegetables (as you wish) to produce it in time, not to use the possibility of accusing the SRS and to hide behind your own responsibility. Just look at the agrarian budget and how much agriculture is involved in the 2005 budget, and you'll understand. Look at the agrarian budgets and how much you've singled out for agriculture in the cities and municipalities where you're in power, and then don't let some empty stories, phrases and attacks on the SRS which, it's absolutely certain, will soon take over power in Serbia, to hide behind what you're not ready to do and not be able to do. (President: You're out of time. ) Start from village to village, from Vojvodina to southern Serbia, to ask farmers, farmers, how they live and will tell you that it is worse and worse. And those who have the ability to make some production, have no place to place it, no placements, because the state is unable to provide it, and then the finance minister tells us that it's better if the market is supplied with goods from imports because it's cheaper here... (Chairman: Please, you've been over the clock for a minute.) ) You know what, Mr. Mikhailovich, I may have timed out, but unlike those you've given outside the Rules of Procedure, I'm saying something smart and it's about agriculture. Speaking of agriculture, I end up with only part of the programme, which is a complete restructuring and the creation of opportunities for other now neglected industries to develop, of course, there will be a lot more words when the minister is from the ranks of the SRS, and farmers will only have to wait a few months to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13843	Just one explanation, since you've called on Rule 28 and I don't suppose you're happy with how I apply the Rules of Procedure, you've been here for a minute and a half, and I'm really not here to appreciate whether you're speaking unwisely or cleverly, I'm going to leave this to you in the Parliament's voting day to declare whether I've hurt the Rules of Procedure. The word is Mr. Prophetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13844	I don't want to take this any longer than I've been saying about everything that's been said, but if you're going to engage in some controversy, I'll just say it on one case. Slovenians have registered ajvar as their national product, but it seems to me that it was 1997 or 1998, when none of these parties were in power and can therefore bear responsibility. However, the ruling coalition today treats a little differently what the state's interest is and fights for this state interest on the international market, and cannot bear the responsibility for ajvar or any other nonsense that happened to us in the 1990s.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13845	The People's MP Prvoslav Savic has the word, and let the MP Branko Rankovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13846	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill by all means was adopted by the majority of the votes of the Assembly Committee on Agriculture, although the MPs of the SRS and the members of this committee did not vote for it because of the shortcomings this bill holds. For these reasons, SRS MPs have submitted a large number of amendments to this bill to improve it, namely in order to create at least a younger person from this woman in the form of a seed law by cosmetic means, and certainly not a girl, because that is not possible. Your parliamentary majority, therefore many of these amendments, and perhaps all, will not accept, although you would have to, because only this law can be a little better for the citizens of Serbia. The government obviously wanted this bill to make it as acceptable for America as well as the EU. When preparing this seed law, the Government did not at the same time make sure that it would be acceptable for those who really needed it. So these are businesses and institutes in the area of agriculture which, according to their results, are not at all lagging behind their foreign colleagues. There are also citizens of Serbia who are engaged in agriculture, which will put your hand in the pocket of this law. However, in order for this seed law to be good, at least for America and the EU, it is necessary to pass a dozen other laws in the area of agriculture, forestry, water industry, which will follow this law, and I doubt that you will be able to do so for the next ten years. Us from the SRS, as well as a large number of citizens, comforts that you will not be in power at that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13847	The People's MP Branko Rankovic has the word, and let the MP Miljko Cetrovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13848	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as I come from the rural community and do exclusively agricultural production, I've decided to report under this law. I'm going to say more about the old law on fruit material, and it's good that this law is divided into two laws. It used to be called the Seeds and Fruit Material Act, and now we have two laws: the Fruit Material Act and the Seed Act. But that's not enough. There should be a law on the recognition of newly created varieties of agricultural and forest plants. When we're trying to do something, we have to finish it half way, not half way. In a discussion so far, some MPs have heard that there is an interesting lobby. If someone thinks it's a lobby to protect our seed houses, I think we should protect our seed houses, because they're famous in the world and have quality seeds, so they need to be helped. This law provides a great opportunity for foreign seed houses to come to our market and, for example, for five years, give seeds at a cheap and lower price than our houses that won't be able to handle financially, so they'll have to close. And the stranger, who comes after those five years, will be left alone in our market, and after that, he will be able to raise the price of the seed because he will not have the competition of our seed houses, so he will charge the previous five years, and next year he will enjoy the privilege of being alone in our premises. Each smart state protects its producers and does not allow it to destroy its better quality varieties at the expense of foreign varieties. This law allows the opposite. Let me give you an example. In neighbouring Romania, due to a similar law, the work of several agricultural institutes, which dealt with seed production, has been destroyed in time. In a short time, Romania became addicted to seed imports, and it is known that Romania was one of the world's largest corn producers. Our country should not pay such a high price to get close to another step, as you say - the European Union. So I'd ask the Minister's question -- is it intended to destroy our seed producers, so I don't want to discuss it anymore? So tell us how you plan to protect them. As for the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group -- those proposed a lot of amendments to fix the law, because all your laws are complex and are not easy to apply in practice, and they are not sufficiently detailed, so I urge you to accept our amendments in the day of voting, i.e. Amendments to the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13849	Thank you. Here is the word of the People's MP Miljko Četrovic, and let Stojan Cvetkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13850	Honored MPs, if agriculture in gross national income for the previous year or for the previous years participated with 45%, what the state through budgets and other sources of funds returns to agriculture. What's the situation in agriculture today? One chaos, one hopelessness that reigns in all branches of agriculture. Instead of making and proposing a long-term strategy for the development of agriculture (which would also have short-term plans for the development of agriculture and exit from the difficult situation in which this very important branch for the people and the state was found), this government did not do so. Here it has been repeated several times, as before, that the greatest burden and that the highest price of entry into the European Union will be paid by peasants. How long will the peasants pay the greatest burden? If after 45, they paid for the country's reconstruction, then paid for decades to industrialise the country, so they paid the price of sanctions from 90 to 2000, and thanks to the agriculture, the people of Serbia were not hungry, but unfortunately with so-called. The arrival of democratic power has not changed anything. Instead of laying the foundation and building a strategy, it starts from the roof, or from the chimney itself, and this law is proposed which is not systemically or crucially law, the seed law. The seed is important, very important for wartime and vegetable production. But it doesn't mean anything just to provide good seed, control of that seed, unless that production is organized and the effects of that production are seen. Because the warring, fruit, vegetable production itself should have a further path to processing, in final products, which are essential and very necessary for the overall success of agricultural production. What's our status in the processing industry? The slaughterhouses were destroyed, the fruit and vegetable processing factories destroyed. Unfortunately, hundreds of hectares of farmland are being destroyed throughout Serbia daily. The state doesn't care about that. The ministry is not trying to protect agricultural land, which is out of its minds and that would protect the world's serious state by all means as arable land, so instead of fields, meadows, pastures are now car-waste along the highways and regional roads. Every day there are no warehouses and cargo yards, and everyone's running away from agricultural production. What to say about the privatisation of combinations, cooperatives, agricultural enterprises that are directly related and even to the production and transport of seeds that are the subject today in the National Assembly. What to say about the company "Paljo Transport" in the King, which I mentioned in the discussion about the amendments and the addition of the Privatisation Act, when the majority owner entered this company dealing with the transport of seeds, among other activities related to agriculture, the purchase of machinery and other, used hundreds of tons of mercantile wheat in alleged doradia, and it was placed on farmers, or farmers, to sow. Where is the responsibility of the agricultural inspection? Where's the Ministry's responsibility? This fact has also been shown to the members of the Privatisation Committee, as well as the fact that the majority owner of the 15-year-old vegetable seed, with the label he printed and only glued to the bags, was placed on the market and sold on the premises or in the facilities of the company. What to say about privatising the company "Sema" -- Belgrade, which has been dealing with seed trafficking for decades. At the auction came Karic or Karic, they bought the company (probably bought for facilities in Belgrade), from an administrative building, a plant where the seeds were finished or processed, and to sales facilities. It's sad when you cross the Balkan street and you see a large seminary once visited by peasants for the purchase of seeds and vegetables, and now you're selling second-hand clothes from Western Europe. Now, that's the essence of where the privatisation of agriculture enterprises goes. What to say about many ads that appear in the daily press about auctions on the sale of combinations, state and social land throughout Vojvodina. Who's gonna buy that land? The foreigners will buy it, and then when they buy the land, they will determine what they will sow. It is likely that genetically modified seed will be sown and then people in Serbia will be fed modified food. That's our future. Of the three laws, in 14 months since this government has existed, it has been said that there are 14 more to be passed, when a whole set of laws will be circled, and when agriculture and peasants will get the right and the right place to work hard in the field, in the meadow, in the stables, in the buildings, often putting forth great efforts to achieve some production, but unfortunately, this production is already inconclusive and difficult to deal with. They're left to shoppers, buyers, all kinds of Athrapas. One obvious example of taking care of the village and the peasant. Local majority or so-called. A small democratic bloc in the Kingdom, which has been painted from the government of Serbia or this assembly, proposes a decision on the work of a large market in the Kingdom (and large markets in the Kingdom is one of the major cattle markets in Serbia), to make cattle markets between 0.00 and 9:00 p.m. Imagine this humiliation and harassing of peasants who need to groom cattle to be at the market at 00.00 and sell their cattle at the deaf hour to various Athrapis, shoppers, past any controls, every inspection. Who here hunts in the dim, and who is enormously rich in the load of that cattle producer? Can such behavior be talked about any care of the village and the peasant? If things like this continue, the entry into the European Union and the community in ten years will have no peasants or country production. If the structure of the population involved in agricultural production is known, it starts with Vojvodina, Shumadija, and across Serbia, most of the ageing households that are scolded at every turn. I take for example milk producers. Thanks to your honorable and honest privatisation, the milkmen have been put into the hands of some thieves and rich people, allegedly from Serbia and even outside Serbia. They bought dairy Croats, Hungarians, I don't know who. Now these nursing households with two or three cows are in a situation that they can't hand over that milk because they are supposed to be registered first, on the other hand, the finance minister has introduced VAT, and the price of raw milk is 12.00 dinars. Now Dinkic is also blackmailing those poor milk producers that they have to register to get that three dinar premium. Imagine the ratio of the price of milk. Who's robbing these peasants? The price of yogurt of 0.2 is 12 dinars in the store. You're all buying it so you can see what's left of the peasant when he gets for the raw milk of 12 dinars and if he gets that three dinar premium. That's the state of agriculture. Thousands of objects for these cattle across Serbia, Vojvodina, Shumadia, and even royal municipalities, for these heroes, pigs, chickens, the beasts are empty. There's no program. Unfortunately, thanks to this government and the previous government, the borders are wide open to food imports, to meat imports, to imports of meat processed meat. Unfortunately, several years ago Serbia exported meat, exported fruit, processed fruit and vegetables. Now it's all imported. No wonder Serbia has such a negative trade balance because everything is allowed to import meat from Croatia from the Bosnian-Herzegovina Federation. Looking at the bill itself, it's trying to throw dust at the peasants in the eye, with a small number of alleged loans approved by G17 plus over some so-called. Banks from Serbia. It's not even a drop in the sea what should be done for the village and the peasants, for agriculture. There is nothing to be done this way, without a strategy, without the definition of which the Serbian peasant, Serbian agriculture as a key branch, is a priority, on which we must rely as one of the pillars on which we will continue to base our country and the survival of this people in this area. We need to use natural resources or what nature has given us, to produce it and to organize production in that direction. I can't have peasants alone because they're left to themselves and to those I mentioned, to buyers, to the Athrapas and to the traffickers, because these peasants don't have a government, they don't have a ministry, the state just remembers them when it comes to taxes and various taxes, impose and God forbid when there's war.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13851	The People's Messenger Stojan Cvetkovic has the word, and let the Verse of Radet be prepared. I would like to thank the Ministry of Agriculture, who first handed the strategy over to the Assembly, and only then to the Government and it is a pleasure that the Assembly unanimously accepted that strategy. That's what we welcome, and so we don't panic. Serbia's constitution prohibits the sale of land to foreigners, and so it will be. The MP Cvetkovic is not here. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. I've been informed that Mr. Cvetkovic is on the board.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13852	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the Serbian Radical Party's 100-point programme. Point 68 describes how Serbian radicals intend to resolve the issue in agriculture. The program's on the SRS site, so if you decide to build a serious program, read it, it'll do you good. In short, i.e. in a copy of the 20 points we used in the election campaign for the last parliamentary elections, at point 16, we envisaged solving problems in the area of agriculture. On this basis, we won the highest number of seats in the last election, for your information. As for the G17 plus agriculture bid and the Serbian government, it is only declarative, just as swearing in agriculture and farmers was during the election campaign. This law, i.e. the Semen Law, is another one of the G17 Plus pranks, such as the Agrarian Budget, Loans. I'll remind you of the Agrarian budget, which promised to be three times larger and indeed nominally in the budget, is some amount three times larger than the previous one, but where it is given, what happens to such funds, that's what the ladies and gentlemen haven't explained to us yet. They say it's credit for farmers. It would be nice, Mrs. Dulic-Markovic, to tell us how to do it, under which criteria and to whom credits are shared. It is said in Serbia that loans are granted only by Vojvodina by party thinkers of Ms. Minister, and that citizens, i.e. people who deal with agriculture in southern Serbia, in the ratic area, are irrevocably applying for at least a small amount of credit to start their production to come up with some better living conditions. They say they can't reach the Minister of Agriculture, and there's no way they'll get those loans. The villagers in Serbia say they never had a worse agriculture minister than Mrs. Dulic-Markovic. Madam Minister, the villagers say you didn't protect them from VAT, you didn't protect them from the Mladjans, you didn't protect them from mandatory social security, and they expected that from you, at least that's what they tell us on the ground. We, unlike all of you, are daily in contact with all citizens of Serbia. We know what Serbian citizens think of both this government and the ministers individually. And sugar has to do with agriculture, Mr. Krassic, you're right. Today, in explaining the Government's proposal for a seed law, the minister told us the definition of seed and read us what we received in this text. We, for your information, Madam Minister, are written. People's MPs can read. Members of the SRS know perfectly how to read and what is written between the lines, and we know well how profitable it is to deal with seed production and we know well who the provisions of this law are. We know very well why the law is inconclusive, why the law is half-determined. Of course, because it could be broken, it could be interpreted on an arbitrary basis. That's why it suits you to have as many legal gaps as possible, so you can still force your party or some other like-minded people in Vojvodina. Of course, we Serbian radicals do not think that Vojvodina should be neglected in relation to other parts of Serbia. We, as you know, are in favour of a single Serbia, but we certainly think that the peasants in southern Serbia, in the Raška area, in Shumadija need and must be helped by the state. Since 2000, there has been no movement in the area. People live up and down, they have nowhere to sell what they produce, of course, because whoever's supposed to buy it has no job, so there's nothing to pay for. So, Mrs Dulic-Markovic, instead of just reading to us what we read earlier, it would have been good if you had explained some of the key moments of the bill's proposal and had explained a little bit why, let's say, you had not responded to the amendment of the SRS parliamentary group to Article 2, and this amendment tried to prevent the possibility of controlled production and traffic of genetically modified plants. Of course, we know that you are known for your efforts to introduce genetically modified products, as we haven't forgotten what happened in 2001 when those huge quantities of genetically modified soybeans were imported, so when the villagers had to overdo the fields in order not to poison the people in Serbia. It's all the liquids of the revolution. You also did not refer to the amendment to Article 5. The SRS. We have suggested that seed production can deal with a natural person who must be a farmer, who has registered agricultural land. You're the only one in the law who predicted a physical face. That's what I was saying at the beginning, that you've completely consciously and deliberately left the possibility of abuse of this law and that you can interpret it to anyone by heart, or to interpret it in purpose. You'll seem to be introducing a new interpretation so far unacknowledged right. When it comes to Article 6, we also suggested to you, in order for someone to deal with seed production, they must have land, they must have a professional person who can do the job, they must have a storage space and some other conditions. As you predicted on the basis of Article 6 of this proposal, who can do this, whether a seed will produce pots on the terrace, whether it will meet any conditions. Actually, it doesn't, because you didn't predict any conditions. In Article 9, you are talking about a book on seed production, which is not well arranged at all, no complete resolution is proposed. And that's where you didn't react to the SRS amendment, and it would be nice if it did. The Ministry must make it impossible to influence the business policy of maintaining the variety or disrupting the fulfilment of contractual obligations towards foreign partners. It's regulated by the members of the 10th and 11th. You didn't even talk about it. In addition to what you wrote in the proposal, which is completely dry and shrub written and what no one can interpret that it would be in the interest of all persons who are interested in dealing, I repeat, with this very lucrative (but if it works in the right way) and with a very useful job. It is necessary to increase the professional competence and equipment of the organisation which performs the professional control tasks of seed production. And you missed it in article 13. It's a bill of law. Article 31 of the bill gives conditions for laboratories for obtaining accreditation. We tried to specify these conditions, but of course, you don't care what the MPs say. You have something that you have plotted, that you want to drag at any cost, and what consequences will be seen by the peasants in Serbia. The jurisdiction of the inspector is regulated by Article 97 of the proposal of this law. There's something very interesting, extremely inaccurate and incomplete. In the jurisdiction of the inspectors, the jurisdiction of the prohibition is left only for production, not for the completion of the seed, contrary to the provisions of this law. It's just incredible and impossible. What is the difference between the one who produces and the one who does the work? I guess the work must be done in accordance with the law. It's a bad approach to the Serbian government at all. This isn't the only law, and we keep talking about you doing incomplete and inaccurate laws. Today, one of the colleagues in the majority says it doesn't matter what the law is, it's important to move, we have some law, and then we're going to change and supplement, it's not a problem. Of course, we Serbian radicals also know that the law is living matter, we know that the law can be changed by changes and additions. It is essentially no problem at all, but it is inconclusive that the government is proposing a law that is incomplete, that is inaccurate and that it is certain that, if we want to apply it, we will have to go to changes and supplement this law. Your goal is just to pass the law, to fulfil some obligations there, some directives, and that the law will be inadmissible, and that the law will open up the possibility of abuse, and that the law will not be better, you are not interested in it. You should be interested. Mrs Dulic-Markovic should be interested in the state of agriculture in Serbia, the status of peasants in Serbia, should be of interest to you to know, if you are not informed, that in Serbia there is an increasing number of citizens who, unfortunately, do not have the basic means of living. It's rude to say they're hungry, but unfortunately, they're loud. It's a job, among other things, and your ministry. I haven't even noticed in the means of information, I haven't noticed about this pay phone that you've been engaged in solving these problems. It remains unclear, and I will repeat that you are obliged to inform this parliament about what would happen to the triple-largest agrarian budget, "who eats that budget money", are they still waiting somewhere in a corner or have you divided them all, who, by what criteria? You are obliged to explain this to us people's MPs, but more than that to the citizens of Serbia. Believe me, all I've said is to call the citizens of Serbia, their application and we in the SRS in our parliamentary group are covered by letters and phone calls from Serbian citizens dealing with agriculture, they say: they keep promising us these loans, ask the government, ask the minister, how can we get to some loan dinar, how can we restore the mechanism, how can we sow some better varieties. We don't have any money! We're expecting a loan from the state, and the state is just talking!- I'm sorry. The other night, your party friend and chief Mladjan Dinkic said that citizens of Serbia live better just so they don't notice. It seems that you think that agriculture in Serbia is better off without being noticed. It would be better for you to think that they don't live better, but that they notice. We Serbian radicals will not vote for this bill of yours, for all of these reasons that I have spoken of, and colleagues from our parliamentary group and of course the ones they will talk about. We've filed quite a number of amendments on this bill, I think there are 40. Each of our amendments is, if you have been able to read them at all, extremely well-intentioned with the intention of making this law really better, to be more precise, more concrete, to be applicable and to be better than that law to the citizens of Serbia. We do not tolerate amendments to help the Serbian government do better text of the law, because the government itself must be able to do a law for which there cannot be excessive discussions in parliament. We are editing the texts of the law, or we are trying to force you to accept our amendments, in order to help the citizens of Serbia through the application of this law. We know that you think differently from us, that you have other goals. We Serbian radicals have one single goal ahead of us, which is a better life in Serbia. We expect you agriculture ministers to create conditions for peasants to finally start living better, because the villagers say they've never lived worse than in the last four years. They also say that they expected that something good might happen to them from all those promises from the last election campaign, so they are deeply disappointed and very hard to live and they can't wait for the election. Of course, the election result will be decided by the Serbian citizens and then, there is no colleague who commented that we do not have an election programme, then this SRS programme will be a programme based on which, with the application of which all Serbian citizens will live better and those who deal with agriculture and those who deal with other areas in the country of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13853	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Mr. Cvetkovic didn't come? Thank you. Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, before the opening of the original search, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word? No, I don't. The word has Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13854	Dear People's MPs, it is true that the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of the village - the work of G17 plus in agriculture and throughout the government, the work of our coalition partners who are members of our team in the ministry, do not look at the assembly speaker in different speeches, do not read in the yellow press, because we simply do not have time and we have much to do. I agree with that speaker who said we're using our own brains. This whole law was made to serve the brains of our good agricultural producers. This law should be good for those who use seeds and will increase production. This law is not meant to protect itself, as a law so far, the character and work of one man, one institution, but to serve as their seed as soon as possible to other markets. I'm not surprised, but somehow all the remarks were to be delivered to us, everyone seems to have been sent except us to the ministry, although the law was four months on our site, our ministry is open to conversations, and what all agricultural producers know, and who come and write letters to me, which I personally answer to. So, only Professor Skoric didn't read the law. In our task force, therefore, it was not written by the ministry and the government, they were experts, and one of them was head of seminary from the institute, the other was the closest associate of Professor Skoric. So we think we really respected the profession. What's this about? We're trying to break the system of what science is, and who's that seed producer. Right now, it's all the same. So I make the variety, I make the seeds, I sell it to the peasants and I tell them, my mother, it's the best seed; I trust our farmers' minds that they will choose what's best for them. They don't need the minister to say, they don't need a party to tell them, they don't need to be told by the institute. They know that and they will choose our domestic seeds because it is best, not because only they can buy it, and not in the store, but through different barter arrangements. They won't buy a cat in a sack, and that's what this law will provide. They want to make a good contribution. They want to choose. We don't run a DUS test to protect our institute. We introduce DUS tests to protect our producers, that when they buy some sort and know that every plant they sow will be the same. That's why you do it. It's got to break the chain, and science is one thing, and I'm the manufacturer, and I'm the builder, and I'm the label guy. This law will break that monopoly. This is a very professional and precise law. We will explain to you all the amendments that are trying to keep the current state as it is now. I have to say that the greatest pressure to get into UPOV is to protect the variety from foreign companies, and can you believe that an institute had an interest in protecting plant varieties in order not to do so by 2005? So, if they can place their political interest over several parties, do you think it's their interest to put it in order. We started it in 2001. At that time, a law was in line with the UPOV, from individuals sent a completely different law and made confusion about what's going on in this country. He obstructed the law for two years in the federal parliament. At that time, the Law on the Recognition of the Variety passed, and to be shortened from three to two years, and we were very pleased that the Serbian Radicals voted for it. One man is not an institute, one institute is not agriculture, seeding is not just agriculture. If they asked a manufacturer or trader who was the most favourable environment for him, they'd say they were monopolies. Do you think there is anything more beautiful than being the only umbrella manufacturer in England, the only manufacturer of the computer system in the world, or a barrel in Serbia, or seeds in Serbia; that you are the only man in the village or the only plumber in the city. It's natural that everyone strives to build their own monopoly position. For him, it means a peaceful business, a dictation of prices, and therefore a much higher profit. The monopoly position also means maintaining the existing situation, mingling and enjoying the benefits of such a position, which mainly leads to the absence of competition by such a company and largely new ones taking over the market. Of course, you never think about it in advance. Besides a company's monopoly, we have a so-called cartel monopoly, when several producers in the same branch get together and realize it's better to share the market than to compete with each other. This is a common case in agriculture because agricultural products are either difficult to transport or must be stored quickly and processed. To move forward, things have to change. I didn't realize in all these discussions that there was some serious resistance to change. The variety and hybrid today only lasts a few years and then replaces itself with a new one. Not because the old variety isn't good, but because the new variety is better. It's perfectly natural and normal for the old to resist change, and when it's in play and great interest, then you never choose the means. Imagine that only for years can you get fertilizer at affordable prices at stock reserves, that only you can sell sticks as fruit trees, and tiny potatoes as seed potatoes; that you put stones in the fertilizer, that you steal on the scale. We're the only country that still has a trade in goods. We're even proud of it. Farmers have a contract for wheat, sugar tail, sunflower, and perhaps for other cultures and thus receive free instructions. The price is determined by the parities before sowing, however, there is no clear expression of the price of the instruction, so that farmers have little knowledge of their changes or of the credit responsibilities, which are related. The calculations show that prices are 30 to 80% higher than market prices. This is how trade binds the manufacturer and does not share costs, but all the burden falls on the manufacturer. This "barter" trade has led to purchasers and production organisers taking the overall profit along with the interest they charge from the manufacturer. I don't know if you noticed in the statements of all these oil and sugar institutes, big cooperatives, how they finance and lend agriculture. That's true, but on interest that's more than banking or close or even with green, but they'll never admit it. They say, "You don't know how much it costs me to fund agriculture." A clear contract should be made and this is what this government is working on. I hope that as soon as possible, the law on the protection of competition will be discussed in this assembly, which will break these systems. I hope that the farmer will have the opportunity to buy a sack of sunflower seeds or soy from the Institute at the store, not to get it by certain parameters, exclusively from the institute or exclusively from some processor, according to the parity that he determines for them. That's why this law has to change. He can't be the one who makes the labels, he can't finish it. And this law has been amended, but this bill that is before you will not solve all the problems. That's why we've been working on these laws for a long time, we don't agree with them because of the EU, we agree with them because of us and with us so that we can get to the market, sell these agricultural products. There can't be good agriculture in a bad country. It can't be all wrong, it can't be just agriculture. It's good for agriculture since this year to have a good judiciary, and education, and journalism, to have economic stability, respected diplomacy, respect in the world, to have good administrations. For agriculture, it's more important than a good tractor that we have faith in ourselves and that we realize that all that hatred, envy, despair is not good feelings. To realize that knowledge is the only thing that makes progress and that we realize that we need to be better. That is why I am sure that, in the next elections, these other Serbia who trusts in knowledge, in the book and in good, patient and honest work will win. For agriculture, it is more important than the good seed that we are aware that we are the country in which only ten years ago the largest inflation has ever been recorded; in which all the money from millions of people, including peasants, has been drawn through pyramid savings, and has been put into the hands of a few who have funded and participated in several wars; in which new cemeteries and pits with corpses have been forged instead of new orchards; in which instead of peaches of freezers, corpses have been transported; which has been bombed for three months and in which they eventually killed the prime minister. But it was our choice, and every nation bears the burden of its decisions. And that's why it's even more prone to populistism and collectiveism instead of truth and individualism. And why is that, there's probably a lot more professional people to explain to you than I do. Agriculture is work, it's the thesis that you say can contribute to economic progress. We took part in it. Our primary agricultural participation is 21%. The average in Africa is 17%. Our agriculture has a huge impact on our economy. We'll all agree that in the 1980s, our agriculture was much better, and then it took part in the national income with 10%. The Netherlands is a second-place country to export agricultural products, while the participation of the Netherlands in gross national income is two percent; Germany 0.8%, France 2.1%. Agriculture is a low-accumulated activity and it as such cannot affect the country's wealth as other sectors. We need, with agriculture together, to fight for all other sectors to advance, especially the service sector. In the end, I really need to look back at some of what we did last year. So three years ago, when all the sanctions were lifted and the world exchange started, we had a deficit in the trade of agricultural products of $244 million. Export coverage was 56%. Each year the deficit decreased, and this year; last December, the deficit was less than $15m, and export coverage was 98%. Also, preliminary results showed that the growth in agricultural production last year was 19% and more. So we still have a surplus in the exchange of agricultural products with the EU. We export more than we import. That's where all your theories fall into the water. Remember. On the other hand, the average unit value of imports is decreasing and the unit value of exports is increasing. This means that we are increasingly exporting processed products, not primary products. Trend is like this, and we all have to work to keep this trend going. In recent years, the government, the Ministry of Finance, in particular, has allowed us to manage a budget that was three times larger than in the previous period. Until the last dinar, the budget has been paid and our farmers know it well, and they are very pleased with the changes in the structure of the budget that we have made. Agriculture is an activity that cannot be developed along the monopolies and there is going to be cutting these relationships, so it cannot be developed without the credit markets and without the land market, and these are the two basic elements on which we work very much. Last year we started a process that should allow manufacturers to access credits and build their credit history. The biggest lie is that these are the loans shared by party friends. So, it's a system, you probably can't switch to another system when money is given through banks and banks through a business plan decides who to lend to. Last year, 28,125 loans or 1.7 billion were distributed. This year, within just a month and a half, entire 1.7 billion were distributed for over 25,000 loans. Last year, 68 coolers received about 500 million dinars of short-term short-term fruit buyout. Furthermore, 852 million dinars went through the Long-term Credit Development Fund, and 700 million were paid for long-term loans to 700 agricultural producers, and these are the most credits used for livestock, for agricultural machinery and for the rest. In three months we have created a system of support for the village and young agricultural producers, and these are probably the best funds spent from the agricultural budget. Meat communities received over 58 million for various programmes, such as the construction of a system for irrigation, sewerage, waste water treatment, erosion protection, the adaptation of the cooperative home, the construction of meteorological cells and weather services, and water supply. It was given to cooperatives 69 million for their programmes and more than 200 million for young farmers, who again invested most in livestock and agricultural machinery. Three billion dinars of milk premium were paid. You figure out 20 billion as much as three billion, so you'll know what percentage goes to support milk producers. Then, 963 million dinars went for a sunflower, 606 million for soybean, 840 million for sugar beet premium, 362 million for tobacco producers. You reminded me well of that genetically modified strain, until 2001, when we as G17 plus brought the Law on genetically modified organisms, you imported 250,000 tons of soy juice, and soy bucks don't sow, it's eaten by cattle, it didn't come, it didn't pollute the land. And now we're importing soy buckshot so our cattlemen can make progress. From 1997 to 2001, a genetically modified strain was imported without any control. We passed the law and put the thing under control. Since then, corn and soybeans have not been imported legally without testing at the border. So that's what's the fact, which is true and what all our agricultural producers know. They also know that the Ministry of Agriculture carried out 207 inspections of soybean crops this summer alone, and our inspectors have discovered genetically modified seeds and taken appropriate measures. So we're not talking about it, we're working on not being able to cultivate genetically modified seeds without passing a procedure that's regulated by the Law on genetically modified organisms. As for the seed, if we put your amendment as you suggest, genetically modified seed would be imported like any other seed into this Serbia. So if it came back that way, I repeat again, if your amendment would be accepted, the seed would be imported without any control. This way, when the seed is regulated by the Law on genetically modified organisms, it passes such a complicated procedure that so far since 2001 no seeds that have been genetically modified have been able to obtain permission to grow in Serbia. So we should notice that different laws regulate different things. Also, the law on the protection of varieties, which our institutes so warmly advocate, we do not advocate, we are working on it, because it is good for our farmers, and we will push through and we will persuade UPOV to pass the law at a republican level, that you adopt it and I really trust the great support of our Committee on Agriculture in that.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13855	Time, Mrs. Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13856	Let me tell you more about the budget; last year only for the premium wheat was paid 3.5 billion dinars, just to add, milk and wheat is like the budget before that. It's very easy to check, it can be added, it's not hard. Therefore, all last year's budget has been paid to farmers. Thank you for your support and patient comments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-30-0.u13857	Thank you. Please, just a moment. I'm finishing the initial search. According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 28. indent 2, we are here to take care of one equality, so your metaphor, Mrs. Dulic-Markovic, is accepted on condition that it applies to the only woman in the village, that's the first. Secondly, there are no two Serbias, and we are sitting in the parliament of the Serbian state, and don't be angry, no one from here, but the state of Yugoslavia has made it possible, of course, through representatives of the authorities who were, to import genetically modified seeds from 1997 to 2001. So it's nobody's from here, so in that sense, no replicas will be allowed tomorrow. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Baralic, Mr Mašić, Mrs Radeta and the three business reports recorded by 18 hours will be the first on the agenda tomorrow. Thank you and continue at 10.00 in the morning. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 119 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Ivica Dacic, Zarko Obradovic and Velimir Stanojevic. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE SEME (the follow-up in principle) I remind you that at the end of yesterday's part of the word session, according to the Rules of Procedure, the MPs Rajko Baralić, Zoran Mašić and Vjerica Radeta reported. I will give a word to MP Rajko Baralic, but before that, I am obliged to pass on one apology and notification to the MPs by the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Mrs Ivana Dulic-Markovic. She was here at 10.00, but unfortunately, she had to leave. At 11.00 is the launch of the first Twinning programme in Serbia between Slovenia, the Netherlands, Bulgaria, Romania and Turkey, and since this is the first project under the auspices of the European Union, and related to what we all care about, to co-operate with our agriculture, it will be absent in one part. Thank you, and there are representatives of the Ministry. Here you are, MP Rajko Baralić, according to the Rules of Procedure.
