ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-20-0.u19828	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 88 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 91 MPs are present in the hall, or more than 1/3 MPs, and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Nikola Novakovic and Susana Grubjesic. We're continuing to work towards the agenda. We move to a joint principle search of the 11th and 12th points of the agenda: – PROPOSALS ON VETERINARY AND VETERINARY AGENCY, PHYTOSANITARY AND SANITARY LABORATORIES Please, if they have not already done so, immediately submit applications for a word with the order of Members of Parliament. I am opening a joint principle search on the Proposal for a Veterinary Law and the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Veterinary, Phytosanitary and Veterinary Laboratorys. Does the representative of the proposing Dr Ivana Dulic-Markovic, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-20-0.u19829	Dear Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, it is my pleasure to present before the Government of the Republic of Serbia the Proposal for a Law on Veterinary and Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Veterinary, Phytosanitary and Sanitary Laboratorys. The importance of the adoption of a new veterinary law is primarily the protection of animals from infectious diseases, with regard to the protection of people from infectious diseases that can be transmitted from animals to humans, as well as the importance of control in the production and transport of animals, animal products, animal food and food of animal origin, which should satisfy a health and qualitative aspect that will ensure consumer safety. The Republic of Serbia has the conditions and potential to produce safe food of animal origin. This law creates a basis and regulates a system of veterinary services that will be guaranteed both for animal health control and for animal welfare control, through control in the areas of animal breeding and keeping, as well as control in the production and transport of products of animal origin, and that will enable the establishment of a sustainable food chain system, as they call it - from field to table. The need for the adoption of a new veterinary law also imposes the process of our country's integration into the European Union and the harmonisation of the rules with the European Union directives. A new veterinary organisation law shall be established if they meet the veterinary-sanitary conditions prescribed by the law regarding professional staff, facilities and equipment and do not operate as public services. This will fully improve the work of the veterinary service, and thus also the Ministry, which will not have to give way to the work of mandatory animal protection against infectious diseases financed from the budget, but rather to certain public services. In this way, animal health services will be assigned to veterinary services solely on the basis of the quality of work, services provided and results achieved. For the first time, the Veterinary Act provides for an entry in the register of animal breeding and holding facilities and facilities for the production of products originating in animals, including food of animal origin. Following modern trends and EU regulations, stricter veterinary-sanitary conditions have been introduced to obtain work permits. Such facilities will guarantee that the domestic product will be competitive on the international market in technical terms, as well as the introduction of Hasapa as a mandatory programme for the control of critical points in production. By introducing higher standards for export facilities, our products will be able to be exported to the European Union market, and the prescribed veterinary supervision our veterinary service will be easily recognised and equivalent to the services of the countries of the European Union, as a guarantee for the quality of the domestic product. The Veterinary Law clearly defines a new area relating to animal welfare and implements the European Union's recommendations. The law obliges both animal owners and holders, as well as all entities involved in the process of production and transport, to carry out measures to improve animal health and welfare. The new law also prescribes the obligation to mark and record animals, which will primarily improve animal traffic control and prevent illegal trade. This is of paramount importance in the control of infectious diseases and the prevention of the occurrence and spread of infectious diseases. In this way, marked and recorded animals will allow monitoring throughout the production process and setting the concept "from field to table". A system of controls shall be introduced at border crossings towards international standards and checks shall be carried out based on a risk assessment of imports of live animals, products and food of animal origin. In this way, entering a system of controls that is unique in the European Union and our service, with clearly defined animal health control, will be equal and recognised by relevant international organisations. The component of this law is the list of infectious diseases of animals made up under the recommendations of the OIE, according to which animal infectious diseases will be monitored and the occurrence and spread of infectious diseases, which is of great importance in international transport. The Law on Veterinary Use and New Approach regulates a large and important area of animal health, animal welfare, the protection of people from infectious diseases that can be transferred from animals to humans and improves the production of products of animal origin and the production of safe food of animal origin. All of this should produce an effect that is not negligible, both for those who would produce and export, and for the agricultural branch itself, which is facing a long and difficult fight for the European market. Therefore, the paper in this law is: privatisation of public veterinary services; obtaining a programme of measures based on a public competition; establishing a veterinary chamber in which all veterinarians or licensing will be required; within the chamber an ethical committee is established to conduct disciplinary procedures; a advice for veterinary purposes is established which gives the minister expert opinions. Also, good manufacturing practices are introduced throughout the food chain; international veterinary certificates are introduced which must also be written in Serbian; a new chain of facilities for the collection, processing and destruction of animal waste is established; veterinarians are authorised at veterinary stations to carry out certain veterinary inspection tasks. The Ministry of Agriculture, the Veterinary Administration has taken over the past year and a half of its activities in order to be able to implement and implement it by adopting a new law. The veterinary service has been reorganized. So, you know that we have established the Veterinary Administration and the effect of this is improved work, efficiency, efficiency and the introduction of standard procedures and clear lines of responsibility. Environmental inspection centres managed by veterinary inspection coordinators have been formed. The inspection work is enhanced. The control of the work of the inspection service has been increased, with a tightening of criminal measures against unconscious and inefficient veterinary inspectors and an improved collection of veterinary services by 49% compared to 2003. It has also been intensively worked to amend legal legislation, which is harmonised with EU rules, in line with the recommendations of the International Organisation for Animal Health. Thus, we have provided legal grounds for the health protection of domestic animals, following recommendations from the EU and the OIE, which will trigger the creation of conditions for international recognition of the country's status and the removal of technical barriers to international transport of animals and products of animal origin. The National Assembly decided on animal health measures in the Republic of Serbia for 2005, 2006 and 2007. A Regulation on the labelling of bovine animals and keeping records of marked bovine animals has been adopted. A rule has been adopted on how to implement the measures for the control and eradication of brucellosis of cattle, sheep, goats, pigs and dogs and thus reduced brucellosis. An order to take measures to prevent and contain brucellosis of sheep, goats and cattle in 2005 has been put in place; an order has been made to implement measures to prevent the occurrence and control of infectious animal diseases in 2005; an instruction has been made on how to identify priority diseases in the production and implementation of an animal disease surveillance programme. The new Veterinary Law will allow the adoption of new legal acts that are adapted to EU requirements. As you know, the labelling of bovine animals has started, in accordance with international practice and the effect of this is the possibility of central monitoring of the state of the system and rapid response in animal health and animal food safety procedures, traceability system, as well as the prerequisite for production entities to participate in international animal and animal products without technical barriers. International co-operation has been intensified. It was answered by questionnaires from the European Commission, the Russian questionnaire, the Israeli questionnaire. A proposal for ratification of the Agreement on Veterinary Cooperation with China and Ukraine has been prepared to ensure conditions for transport and with these countries. An agreement on cross-border co-operation and rail traffic with Bulgaria has been made to streamline Serbia-Bulgaria's border veterinary service. A veterinary information system has been developed and activated to monitor and contain infectious animal diseases, registration and surveillance of veterinary subjects and objects compatible with related systems in the EU. We believe that the law before you is good and we invite you to vote for it. We assure you that the Department of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture has prepared all their resources for this law to be implemented very successfully in practice. The second law is a law on a agency for veterinary, phytosanitary and sanitary laboratories, which empowers the government to set up an agency as a public agency, which means that the Law on Public Agencys, which was voted by the assembly, will apply to its position. The Agency, in accordance with the law and the founding act, will manage and coordinate a network of laboratories carrying out laboratory tasks relating to: veterinary-sanitary control, phytosanitary control, sanitary control and other forms of food control; veterinary control of animals and phytosanitary control of plants not used in food, as well as sanitary control of drinking water; control of the regularity and composition of biologically active materials used for agricultural production, such as fertilisers, pesticides, seeds, fruit material, etc. The Agency of Veterinary, Phytosanitary and Sanitary Laboratorys will establish an institutional structure for laboratories to carry out analyses that will help implement a series of existing and future regulations. The Agency will take care of the establishment and application of single quality standards, criteria and guidelines for the operation of operations in the laboratory network. The Agency may, where appropriate, provide samples for analysis and other national laboratories which are not in the Agency’s network and international laboratories. As you know, over one year only in the wind is taken to test about 3.5 million samples. In the sanitary inspection, it's a few tens of thousands, about 150,000 samples, while in the phytosanitary administration up to 20,000 samples. For all of these patterns, the state must be a guarantee of control of the correctness of agricultural and food products, and therefore we think that a state system of veterinary, phytosanitary and sanitary control must be established through the establishment of the agency, as order and transparency will be established, and the competitiveness of domestic products on foreign markets will be ensured, thus achieving the possibility of placing a larger number of products because there will be a recognizable system in Serbia. The EU Council Decision 2004/520, which refers to the principles, priorities and conditions for European partnership, defines a short-term priority for agriculture, which is the establishment of an agency for veterinary, phytosanitary and sanitary laboratories. The establishment of the agency was accepted by the adoption of the Action Plan for European Partnership Priorities, whose reports the government sent to this assembly three months ago. The improvement of national laboratories for veterinary, phytosanitary and sanitary inspection, as well as the improvement of laboratories for other inspections, is part of the CARDS programme, which began in 2002. The assistance covers the acquisition of equipment and reconstruction of laboratories selected by EU experts, with the aim of establishing integrated control over the food safety chain. Start the programme, among other things, includes: equipment of laboratories with modern sampling equipment, equipment for sample analysis, training of laboratory staff and state institutions, creating and networking information systems, and at a later stage and connecting with the international network of laboratories, which includes the European Emergency Information Centre. Laboratory equipment and training, worth eightm euros, is provided. A major programme of physical improvement of selected laboratories is funded by the EU, worth around 13m euros, and the "Twining" project, which is to be funded by the EU, which should support the agency's effective work for laboratories, begins in autumn. The formation of the laboratory agency will establish a clear difference between the law of the prescribed testing carried out at the request of the competent ministry and self-control and non-legislative testing and shall be carried out at the request of commercial operators. We believe that with the reorganization of the inspection and organisation of one system of laboratories that needs to be stalked, it is necessary that all our food safety laws are not only brought forward, but implemented in our agricultural practice. I thank you for your attention and invite you to vote for these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-20-0.u19830	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Yeah. ) The word is addressed by MP Zoran Mašić, chairman of the Committee on Agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-20-0.u19831	Mr. Vice-President, Madam Minister, Mr. Krnjajic, you are the Director of the Department of Veterinary Affairs, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, as Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, I would like first to express the protest that the report on agriculture has not yet been distributed to the Members of the People. A meeting of the Committee was held last night and the report should already be divided before the debate begins. I came from Novi Sad this morning at 9:00 to sign a report, and why the service didn't do it; I ask the secretary to intervene and to give the report as soon as possible. Furthermore, I would like to inform the MPs, and the public, but first of all, the veterinary public and colleagues, to discuss on the Committee on Agriculture on the Law on Veterinary and Agency Law, I mean phytosanitary and sanitary laboratories, did not attend the authorised representative, Minister, Mrs Ivana Dulic-Marković, although the Rules of Procedure mean, therefore, that the debate on laws, particularly on such an important law, should be attended by an authorised representative, and that is regulated by the Rules of Procedure, Article 78(3) of the Rules of Procedure. Thus, the work of the Committee itself could not have been, as I say, quality, because the debate on committees is being conducted, especially because of business changes, because the Committee has significant prerogatives precisely in considering every legal act, both in principle and in particular. Furthermore, I would like to say that the Committee on Agriculture was scheduled on time, within the business period, to be given a call, but the Committee could not finish the work until the end of the work because the MPs of the ruling coalition left the Committee session, so that the Committee could not declare itself on the second item of the agenda, meaning, acceptance in principle and in particular of the law on the Agency for Veterinary, Phytosanitary and Sanitary Laboratorys. I am also expressing my protest as Committee President, and I do not think it is correct, especially for Members of Parliament who are on permanent duty, because here in this room, the session of the Assembly was still held, and that was decided by the president of the assembly. And, some MPs have to sit here until 20.00 hours to participate in the debate, and some, who also have other obligations, simply without reason to the president, are leaving the Committee session and bringing me as president and committee into a situation that we cannot plead to the legal act. In fact, today, in the context of a principle debate and in the context of an individual debate, we will essentially not have a quantifiable position of the Committee on Agriculture. I don't think anything like this has happened at least on the Agriculture Committee. I would simply never want such a thing to happen again, especially when it comes to capital laws, so that the minister does not come, because she was informed in time. I can't have any responsibility, possibly, for the problems that Mrs. Minister is accused of, regarding genetically modified soybeans, because last year should have been more strongly approached by those producers who have already been known to produce genetically modified soybeans and to contain it, and not to allow, for example, this year in this area to be sown and then to report problems of serious nature. Most likely there were some reasons why Mrs. Minister did not come to the Committee, but it was time to inform the president that she would not attend and that we simply know why she was not present. Mr Rafaelovic gave some explanation, but I do not want to go into it, so I felt that as an authorised representative in front of the Committee I should inform both the MPs and the veterinary public about how this government and this government has been dealing with the law, I mean these laws and these laboratories.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-20-0.u19832	On what basis are you answering? Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-20-0.u19833	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that there have been some problems both in the presence of MPs and in the work of the Committee, but there have been problems in organising the Committee. So, I owe you one explanation, and this time I'll give it to you. So, I didn't give any explanation, but I was just there until the end of the first item of the agenda. The committee lasted long after working hours of the Assembly. So we've been 18.30 hours and we've been working more than three and a half hours. During that time, Mr. Mašić knows perfectly well that I went to the phone several times to collect MPs. I was also in contact with Minister Dulic-Markovic and the explanation of why it was not present was simple: at that time it was necessary to sign acts that would allow it to begin today with payment for the recovery of damage in flooded areas in the ministry of agriculture. I gave it to the president of the Committee personally, not to tell that story because of the press, on the Committee itself, to make some promotion of the party, but since he didn't want to inform the MPs, I did it. So that's the truth about it. As for the presence, it is also true that some MPs of the ruling majority were not present and I must stress that all MPs of the G17 plus were, from the three MPs of the three of us to the end of the first item of the agenda. So she lasted three and a half hours without a break. I think that, when there are 70 amendments, when there's another law, it's a very difficult day before this point comes up to do it all in quality, and I think we've done it very well, and I'm going to say it honestly. The opposition MPs very constructively submitted amendments, a very constructive debate, and I think we did it well. As far as the minister's presence is concerned, I must also point out this: Mr Masic was not here in the previous meeting, Serbian Radical Party MPs are well aware that previous Minister Vesenov never came to the Committee. This time we had the presence of the Director of the Veterinary Authority with a whole team of associates. I say, given the circumstances of this time, the minister was not there, but the public debate lasted long, everyone participated in it, all contributed to the revision of the law and the adoption of the law, and I think Minister Dulic-Markovic was present at almost all these meetings, committees and public debates. Just to point out that he was present, from parties supporting the government, the SPS MP and Mika Vlaovic, the DSS MP. So, you need to be honest and say who he was. As Vice-President of the Committee, I do not feel comfortable that the three MPs of the ruling majority were not present. You're right about that.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-20-0.u19834	Are any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? National MP Zoran Micovic, authorised representative of the DS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-20-0.u19835	Dear Minister, respected colleagues, respected presidency, the DS parliamentary group has been actively involved in preparing this law for months. The centre of the Democratic Party's resolution committees, which contains 25 doctors of science, five of which are doctors of veterinary medicine, closely followed what is happening in this area. I think we can say today that this veterinary law has suffered many versions. We're free to say that this is one of the best we've ever had. Is it ideal? No, of course not. I don't believe there are ideal laws. We must note that the draft veterinary law of August 2004 went to a public hearing with the draft veterinary law of July 2005. These were two completely different versions. So, I commend the representatives of all the political parties who took part in the consultation committees, especially at a big rally in the Great Plan, so from all parties, where we actively participated and tried to make one quality and good law. I think this is a good start to regulate this matter that we need tomorrow for integration into Europe. So, to fully support the adoption of reform laws. Since this is one of the key laws for joining the EU, we will try to make it our amendments, and we have already done so, this law improves as much as possible. Agriculture laws, including this law, represent one third of the laws needed to adapt to EU rules. I think this was the final moment to make this law. Serbia-Montenegro are among the last European countries to pass a veterinary law without privatising public veterinary services. Just to remind you, until 1954, the veterinary service in our country was private. After that, she became public. We are among the last to privatise public veterinary services through this act, which I consider necessary for the proper and good functioning of this very important service for the health of the people and for the functioning of the state. The State must maintain its discretionary right to establish its veterinary service in undeveloped areas. That was quite well done by this law, with some amendments that were accepted on the Committee. I hope the Ministry and the Government accept these changes. I repeat that there are many gaps and inconsistencies, but this law gives us the right to believe that new amendments and additions to laws in the future, such as other countries in the environment, will make a good and compatible law with the EU. I would be willing to say that all the shortcomings proposed by the law will not affect the quality of our veterinary function, i.e. cattle production and that we will be able to export our products to the EU. Analyzing the proposed law, I think it can be concluded that there are no obligations and responsibilities of local self-government, which relate to determining the near conditions for keeping animals, including pets, or keeping abandoned animals in shelters, nor is a sublegal act designed to regulate this issue. This is important because the new Law on the Protection of the Environment ("Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", No 135/04), no longer contains provisions on the keeping of domestic animals from the previously applicable Environmental Protection Act. Therefore, the conditions for keeping and protecting domestic animals and providing conditions for their burial should be set a little closer here. In this regard, the fact is that there is no longer a legal basis for the decision to keep domestic animals in the territory of local communities. This means that even at the level of the municipalities, there will be no way and conditions for holding dogs and cats, pigeons, as well as hooves, papacara, feathered livestock, rabbits and others. Since this is a problem for local self-government, regardless of whether it's a village or a city, we're going to run into big problems. The law has not yet clearly defined the organisation and operation of a veterinary inspection on jurisdiction and the size of the facility, and in particular the part relating to export facilities. Although it is acceptable to have authorised veterinarians everywhere in Europe to review meat and foods in smaller registered facilities, export facilities must exclusively be responsible for the Republic veterinary inspectors, who are directly responsible for our Veterinary Authority. New terms, such as laboratories, veterinary and veterinary institutes, appear in Articles 21, 25 and 28, where there is no defined way of financing them, whether they are free to make their own incomes or are on the budget. I would also comment that this approach by the European Agency for Development defined the number of veterinary specialist institutes, as well as the national reference laboratory for the introduction of new terms, i.e. facilities, by means of separate means of equipment for existing laboratories. So I ask the Minister to explain or explain to us a little bit better how they imagined the functioning and financing of individual institutions. So, without bad intentions, I have to note that a certain number of members is completely contradictory to Articles 11 and 16, which relate to the work of a veterinary clinic and to Articles 17 and 19, which relate to the work of a veterinary pharmacy which is not in accordance with the applicable Law on Transport of Medicinal Products. So, MPs of the Democratic Party are ready, along with those proposed amendments, if adopted, to vote in favour of this law. When it comes to the agency for veterinary, phytosanitary and sanitary laboratories, we'd have a lot of objections. I wanted to take them out yesterday, as my colleague Masic said, but unfortunately, we weren't able to, after three and a half hours' work on the Committee, the quorum fell apart. I don't want to blame anyone, but we didn't have people and I didn't make any remarks. If the minister can convince me that it would be worth the vote, then she can think about it. It's not all that black. Simply, the view of the Democratic Party is that this law is not mature enough and that it should not be voted on, because first of all solutions should be sought in the following: the law on conditions and criteria to meet the laboratories involved in this type of examination should be passed. Therefore, the law must be strictly adopted in accordance with international standards, it must comply with existing rules, with the need to maintain the proposed form of reference laboratories, introduce a system of licensing laboratories for work, introduce a system of licensing of professionals who will work in them, which will soon be inevitable, as it is an international standard. Next, introduce clear rules and methods of ranking laboratories of their quality and allow free market and competition that will bring quality, reliability and international visibility, for the reason that in one member, the applicant interprets that the Agency will limit competition by law of prescribed testing, allowing only laboratories within the Agency to carry out tests for the benefit of state clients, but will allow free competition in testing that is not mandatory under the law. So, it's not easy, but any logic of the conclusion, I don't like this member, and I think the law could suffer a delay and a failure. (President: Are you using another 10 minutes? Anyway, I'm done. I'm using it, and I'm not gonna answer for this law anymore. I expect the promoter to adopt amendments that I have not given up in order to improve this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-20-0.u19836	Is anyone else answering for a word from the president or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups? The word is given by MP Dr Zoran Masic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-20-0.u19837	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like first to inform that the Serbian Radical Party has, in principle, supported the Veterinary Law at the hearing of the Committee on Agriculture, normally with the consent of the president of our parliamentary group. It is estimated that this law is primarily in the professional sense, because it is a narrow professional law that regulates a specific but very significant area of activity in our country, in such a form as it is perceived in principle acceptable. Normally, our definitive statement on the final text of the Proposal for a Veterinary Law will certainly be conditioned by the adoption of the amendments that we have tabled, because for some amendments we consider to be very important and to significantly correct the text of the proposed law. If they are not accepted, the SRS parliamentary group will unfortunately not vote for this law, and my colleagues and I will seek to explain to our fellow veterinarians, in particular, eventually why we did not support this law, because I think the profession will most understand what we wanted to change to the amendments. This law that we are discussing today is expected by the veterinary public in the last six or seven years. That was the first time a new law had been passed. Meanwhile, several ministers, several assistant ministers and chiefs of the Veterinary Authority, have been changed; finally, the proposal for such a significant law has seen the light of day and the day has come when we are discussing in this high home such a legal act which should certainly have a function, above all, improving animal health protection, and then improving the production of products of animal origin used in human consumption, and then certainly protecting human health, because veterinarians have a significant share in the protection of human health. This bill, in the most part, was all covered by this and was modernly conceived, the experience of veterinary professions from developed countries was passed on, and I certainly welcome the efforts of the Minister and her associates who worked, as well as all colleagues who participated in the work of various committees in the process and the process of making this law. But certainly, as with any law, certain errors have been made here or are not in the right sense defined certain provisions that may be of greater importance to the profession than the legislator of this law thought and assessed. My debate intends to extend beyond our veterinary profession, and certainly to the general public, what this law regulates. Ms. Minister, in the opening section, has more or less illuminated the content of this law, but I don't think she has fully given it, especially its professional orientation in other areas, and I think that we veterinarians can most effectively state what is the core of such a legal act. Certainly, through the debate, I will also present what I absolutely think is good, and also what I think should be done, or during the debate in particular, where amendments are submitted or in some subsequent period, to make an effort and to make changes to this law that we are most likely to make in the voting day. This law in basic provisions certainly defines what the law itself includes; then, it defined 55 different terms and concepts used and which help to facilitate the understanding and interpretation of this law. Further, clear and precise is defined veterinary activity, what it is, what it includes and the essence of veterinary activity. The promoter made all this clear. Furthermore, these basic provisions define the rights and responsibilities of animal owners and holders, since it certainly has a significant impact on animal health and the way animal owners and keepers treat these animals. This law clearly provides for the legal obligations of animal owners or keepers to animals. In the end, international obligations are regulated. Furthermore, this law is regulated by veterinary entities and their activity, as well as organisational forms. Veterinary activity can essentially be dealt with by a legal person registered in the Register of Business Entities, but at the same time entered in the Register of Legal Persons for the exercise of veterinary activity run by the Ministry. Here, one law on the register of economic operators requires anyone working in the field of veterinary activity to register, but the registration of all these entities should also be carried out in the ministry register. This law establishes the following legal persons: veterinary clinic, veterinary station, veterinary clinic, veterinary pharmacy, animal reproduction centre and artificial insemination and veterinary laboratory. Other forms of organization, so-called A specialist upgrade, which is a veterinary specialist. So far, they have been called veterinary specialist institutes, then veterinary institutes, under the existing law, they were scientific veterinary institutes. Then, this law also plans to set up a national reference laboratory for dangerous infectious diseases, but also this other law, which we will also discuss, is the establishment of a national reference laboratory. Finally, in the field of veterinary activity, the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, in particular from the aspect of education and education process, but the university is given the opportunity to do certain jobs and contracts with the Ministry. So, first of all, certain labs do some work for the Ministry. The only thing that is not understandable in this bill, which is why an observation is being made, is that these veterinary labs are not obliged to obtain a certificate of accredited laboratories. Laboratorys in the veterinary specialist's office, veterinary institute and the veterinary laboratory itself should be accredited. In addition to these numbered veterinary agents, veterinary services are also established in legal persons dealing with livestock and livestock production, and above all farms. So far, these farms have had their own veterinary services, but it was beyond the control of the Ministry of Agriculture and has often done unauthorized jobs, which was not allowed by law. (President: Mr. Machine, will you use the other 10 minutes? I will. This law now gives these entities, farms, large agricultural combinations the possibility of setting up a veterinary station, which must have a minimum of three veterinarians; such a veterinary station should be a separate legal person and can then carry out animal health protection tasks in these combinations and implement a health care programme. I think it's well done and it's clearly defined how in these combinations the service should function. It will be excluded from the farm's management bodies, will be an independent legal entity and will be able to carry out its own work. As veterinary entities, veterinary and veterinary pharmacies may be established by entrepreneurs, which are primarily veterinarians with a work-free licence. Such persons may by this law establish a veterinary clinic or a veterinary pharmacy. They register entrepreneurs, and they also have to register with the Ministry in their register of performance. Only such entities registered as entrepreneurs are not allowed to implement the programme of animal health measures and the marking of animals and, otherwise, to be provided to the veterinarian, as an independent legal entity, with the possibility of being carried out. What is also important in this law is the definition of a veterinary chamber, and it is established primarily to protect and improve professional ethics. Protection of professional interests of veterinarians and membership in the chamber is mandatory for all veterinarians. The law defines the tasks of the chamber, the authorities of the chamber, the statute of office, the means of operation of the chamber, the supervision of the legality of the work of the chamber, and what is essentially the most important for the veterinary profession and what will be the primary activities of the chamber, that is to issue licences for the exercise of veterinary activity. Normally, the statute will determine the period for which licences are issued, which is five years, then extension or withdrawal of the licence, and temporarily or permanently, if the Ethics Committee of the Chamber determines that one of the veterinarians has violated the code of ethics of the veterinary profession. This law plans to form a new body called the Veterinary Council. The name itself says it is an advisory body, and the function is to consider professional issues in the field of carrying out veterinary work. This body shall give an expert opinion to the Minister on all issues related to the protection and improvement of animal health and welfare and public veterinary health. The Council certainly also gives an expert opinion on the assessment of the risk analysis of the introduction, occurrence and spread of infectious diseases and possible negative effects on animal and human health; it gives an opinion on a long-term animal health strategy, as this is a new act that will bring the Government for a period of five years. This expert advice certainly gives an opinion on such an act. The expert advice then gives an opinion on the programme of animal health measures. There's a difference here compared to the existing law. So far, the programme of animal health measures has brought this home – the National Assembly, for a period of three years. The law stipulates that the programme of measures will be adopted in the future by the minister, each year, and by the end of January at the latest, the programme of measures should be adopted. The profession has declared that this is acceptable, since often, precisely because of the burden of the Assembly, the measure programme happened not to be adopted within the intended time limit, but to be a problem in the implementation of the programme of measures both in the ministries and especially in the veterinary profession. The measure programme means to be implemented every year, and for example, there have been cases that the National Assembly brought in the second half of the year, and the programme has been scheduled to start since January, February. Such a solution allows for a faster adoption of the programme of measures. Of course, the opinion on this programme also gives this expert advice. Finally, there is a special programme in animal health in case of dangerous, infectious diseases and exotic diseases – the expert advice also gives its opinion. This law regulates the obligations of the owner and the holder of the animals in relation to the implementation of the programme of measures. It is an important segment of this legislative regulation. Under the existing law, animal owners often refused to implement the programme of health care measures, especially those they paid for themselves. It is now a legal obligation, although under existing law it was an obligation. By means of criminal measures much more rigorously these owners will be punished which will not rightly protect the health of their animals, will not allow the implementation of the programme of measures. Furthermore, the diagnosis of infectious diseases and measures to prevent spread; damage compensation, which is also important, has been defined. It is clearly defined when it is realised, when the owner and holder of the animal can and has the right to make compensation for the damage, and when there is no, as well as the amount of compensation for the damage. Furthermore, facilities for the performance of veterinary activity have been regulated. The facilities must certainly meet the veterinary-sanitary conditions and be entered in the register of facilities and be assigned the veterinary control number. In particular, export facilities from which only animals or products and food of animal origin can be exported are defined, which we did not have in the existing law until now. What is also important and what is in the modern concept is the obligation of legal persons and entrepreneurs to carry out the work of animal slaughter, production and transport of food of animal origin, food for animals, as well as the collection, processing and destruction of animal waste to have so-called "animal" waste. the system for ensuring the safety of products introduced and maintained on the principles of good manufacturing and hygiene practices and risk analysis and control of critical control points, etc. "Hasap" or HACCP system. Today, the institutions and organisations involved in these activities that I have read have the obligation to introduce this programme or system, so it is good to introduce and revive this system in our country in the coming period. Further, what is significant, animal transport is regulated. That's where we had our remarks. Article 96, which regulates the transport of animals, requires that all means of transport be registered with the Ministry, which will create major problems for agricultural producers, because we know how and how all animals are transported, both to markets and to slaughterhouses. An amendment has been proposed to regulate it a little bit better, and unfortunately, the promoter did not accept it. Also, animal slaughter has been regulated. By passing this law, the slaughter of animals can only be carried out in registered slaughterhouses, and, above all, the slaughter of hooves, livestock and rabbits, and the hooves in registered slaughterhouses that have separate line of slaughter for certain species of dippers. Other than registered slaughterhouses, owners or keepers of animals may perform slaughters of pigs, sheep, goats, livestock and rabbits only if they are intended for use in their own household. This is also acceptable for the veterinary profession, as this will prevent the transfer of infectious animal diseases to uncontrollable slaughter and sales, as they would say - under the arm, past veterinary control. (Chairman: Time, Mr. Machine. ) Since the time has elapsed, what I did not finish, and I haven’t quite finished with the veterinary law, I particularly did not refer to any of the laws of the Agency for Veterinary, Veterinary and Phytosanitary Laboratorys, I will talk about it in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-20-0.u19838	Thank you, Mr. Machine. The word was first reported by MP Branca Stojanovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, and Vladislav Kronic, and Arsen Kurjački. It is the order of how authorised representatives applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-20-0.u19839	Mr. Vice-President, Ms. Minister, Mr. Krnjajic, it is difficult after the veterinary medicine experiment, Mr. President of the Committee of Mašić and Mr. Mićovic, who are veterinary professionals, to say something that we are not veterinary professions. Of course, you will allow me to say a few words on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia about this, and, according to us, a very important law. At first, I think what Mr. Masic said about the Committee's work and functioning was an example of a tolerable work, until yesterday, at least I didn't expect it to be inconceivable in further work to challenge Mrs. Minister's lack of presence. But, well, I guess the reasons for her lack of presence were stronger. That's one thing. Secondly, there is one agreement at the level of the ruling coalition with the SPS parliamentary group, that is also an obstacle, that all legislative projects of the SPS parliamentary group should be informed before the meeting of the law assembly is passed. Here I would like to express my gratitude to Mr. Krnjajic, who has in some way made up for all this which is a grudge. Indeed, all the time of the Committee's work, and the Committee on Agriculture worked in a two-day session, where the subject was a veterinary law, where the professional people and Serbia's profession gave their position and helped us to help the members of the Committee who are not those professions to see the importance of the adoption of this law. This law has been prepared for an extremely long time, a legislative regulation that defines this area has been passed long ago, back in 1991, with certain amendments in 1992, 1993, 1995 and 1996, and another law that was on the federal level, so that it simply imposes the need for the adoption of a comprehensive law that regulates this area. What's very important to us? Why do we think this law, apart from editing the area in the veterinary field, is very important? So that's the development of livestock. With the development of livestock, we also raise the issue of the development of agriculture, which is, and we swear to it very much and we often say, a very important resource of our country. In addition, the facts show that 42% of gross national income is achieved in agriculture. However, let me say that we cannot be fully satisfied with the relationship and work of this ministry regarding this area. We think that legal regulations in this area must come much faster before the National Assembly. After all, we had a promise from Ms. Minister regarding significant legal projects that are vital to the further development of our country's agriculture; unfortunately, they have not yet come before the National Assembly. I'm not saying it's an exclusive responsibility and guilt of the Ministry and the Minister of Agriculture, the procedures are such that it's very difficult to come by, anyway, and we've come to this law hard, although it was announced several months ago to be brought in. First of all, I mean the Agricultural Land Act. Last time I said, when we talked about the Seed Law, that such a law is necessary as soon as possible, because we are going to have a very fast situation in Serbia that the agricultural land is being used before, and then we are working on it. Agricultural combinations that are privatized, which in their composition have both state and social land, the subject of privatisation - social land, state land, unfortunately, I am talking about the area from which I come, remains unprocessed. Very quickly, several-year-old wooden plants can break through and get into a situation to lose our agricultural land. Of course, it is not exclusively the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, but also of the Ministry of Industry and Privatisation, related to the privatisation of large systems and combinations, but the parliamentary group of the SPS will initiate the adoption of a law which, in our opinion, is very important and particularly important for the Vojvodina area, which is that social, or state land, by the Constitution, is not subject to the privatisation of foreigners. Now the situation, as far as it goes, is extremely alarming. In agreement with Mr. Bubal, we'll pass a bill that will regulate this. The Veterinary Act regulates a very important area of agriculture, which is livestock farming. What is very important to us is what is being established by the veterinarian’s chamber, which has existed so far, but its role so far has not been as foreseen by the new veterinary law. We think it's a good thing that the veterinarian should get, that is, that he can also lose his license for his work. On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have submitted one amendment. I understood the reasons and explanations that came first from Mr. Krnjajic. However, I will talk a little bit more about this when we talk about amendments, but the amendment referred to that veterinary clinics can deal with animal protection measures. That's not what the existing law predicts. I can only do veterinary stations. As far as I know, the difference between a veterinary clinic and a veterinary station is in one veterinarian. We think that in certain environments we have veterinarians who have two veterinarians, and who have one veterinarian. In certain environments it is not rational and it is often impossible to organise certain actions if there is no veterinary cell, although the law provides for such possibility. For the sake of these people of your profession, Mr. Krnjajic, what reputation will theirs be with the host who is being given animal health care and enters his landings daily, and then at the moment when the action is to be carried out, someone else comes? That's my dilemma and our dilemma, therefore, because of those people who are somehow underrated, their profession is underrated at that point. He's doing everything he needs for the host, our farmer, the peasants, and the moment a particular action is required, and that action, as far as I know, does not require a particular specialty, but what the veterinarian is learning and can... But I'm going to try to do that in the context of the amendment, by sort of respecting the reasons you said and the possibility that in the environments where there are no veterinary cells, that's what veterinary clinics can do. After I used the first 10 minutes, I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-20-0.u19840	Thank you. People's MP Vladislav Kronic, the authorised representative of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-20-0.u19841	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I must truly express my great satisfaction today that a very important and comprehensive law, which is regulated by me, is a very important area. The Veterinary Law is important for all countries, and of course for Serbia as an agrarian country, where 40% of the country's inhabitants live on agricultural activity, and even more than 42% of the social gross product is derived from agriculture and food industries. We need to respect the fact that doctors take care of people's health, and that's very important. But we must also appreciate that veterinarians take care of the health of the whole world. It is not by no chance, therefore, that in every village other than the pope, the teacher and the doctor, a very important place on the scale is taken by veterinarians. As the current situation in this area has been regulated, it has been regulated in two laws. Of course, the Republic of Serbia in the Constitution, in Article 72(1) point 5, has an obligation to regulate this area. This area is now regulated by the Law on Animal Health in 1991 and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Animal Protection of 1992. Another law that regulates this area is the Animal Protection Act against infectious diseases that threaten the entire country, which was passed back in 1991. This law, as we heard from the predecessors, was born a long time ago. This law has passed a comprehensive and broad public debate, where all subjects of the veterinary profession, regardless of whether the veterinarians are in private practice or veterinarians in state practice, have given their opinion. It is also important to point out that both scientific and professional veterinary organisations have also given their opinion. The public hearing lasted over a year. Indeed, there were many objections that were incorporated into this law to make it better. This is a modern law because it respects European standards, which will allow us to target livestock products towards the EU. This law defines protection and a new term – "the welfare of animals". It determines what are infectious diseases and measures to prevent the spread and control of animal diseases, as well as zoonoses, which are diseases transmitted from animals to human beings; it determines animal health control, animal production and transport conditions, animal products, animal food and animal health conditions. Article 2 of this Law defines what infectious animal diseases are, and Article 3 defines even 55 concepts contained in this Act. Veterinary activities, as well as rights and duties, have also been specified. The law provides for a comprehensive reorganisation of the entire veterinary service. Unlike the current period, the veterinary service will be organised in the public sector, but equally in the private sector. In my view, it is a significant member of this 10th law, which allows natural and legal persons, or producers of large farms, to organise a veterinary service for their own purposes. It is also defined what veterinary practice subjects can do. It is defined what veterinary clinics, cells, pharmacies, reproductive centres can do, etc. One newspaper in this law is the mandatory membership of all veterinarians in the veterinary chamber. In the current solutions, membership in the veterinary chamber was not mandatory, and this law becomes an obligation. The next newspaper in this law is the introduction of a licence that can be obtained by a person with a completed veterinary college; it is necessary to have one year of work experience, passed a professional exam and professional results, so of course a recommendation from two members of the veterinary chamber. The licence is obtained, of course, not once and for all, but there is a possibility of losing the license if the work is not done properly, or professionally. In my opinion, it is also important for a member of 46, who regulates that local self-government organizes a zoohygienic service to capture and take care of abandoned animals, which, unfortunately, are our reality, and remove the corpses of animals. This law, in my opinion, very significantly defines the establishment of a scientific advice for veterinary purposes to consider professional issues in the veterinary field. The third section regulates the protection of animal health and human health against animal diseases through the adoption of two significant planning documents: first, through a long-term strategy in animal health that is carried out every five years, then, a programme of measures in animal health that must be adopted by the end of January of the current year. The third document is a special programme to protect animal health. The paper in this law is also that public competitions are subject to the measures programme; not as so far, only public veterinary services are implementing a programme of measures, but one that can do the job better. In the fourth section, veterinary-sanitary control in the facilities is regulated, and a register of facilities is introduced and veterinary control numbers are assigned. Exports of animals and products of animal origin are only possible from objects that are registered and have an export control number. The paper is also the introduction of a programme of risk analysis and control of critical points in production, and the obligations of legal entities and entrepreneurs to have a responsible person in a permanent working relationship. Getting healthy proper food provides a program for monitoring the chemical substance residuals in the food production chain. Significant newspapers are also mandatory markings and records of animals, with a view to enhanced controls in animal production and transport. Data are entered into the central database, and this database is run by the Ministry, and for each animal the passport is issued and that passport follows the animal on each movement. Article 97 regulates the sale of animals, and Article 100 regulates the organisation of exhibitions, events and competitions of animals. The paper and government's obligation to collect, process and destroy animal bodies is to organise a public service operating under the Public Service Act. The fifth section of this law regulates veterinary and health control and international traffic by issuing international veterinary certificates and certificates. Article 124 defines the procedure for issuing licences for the import of animals and products of animal origin. The paper is in this law and an analysis of the risk that determines the purpose of the product, the characteristics of the exporting country, because they all influence the occurrence and spread of various diseases. Animal protection is regulated by general and special measures in Article 138 which prohibits the abuse and torture of animals in all kinds. It is also forbidden to organise a fight between animals. In Section XIV, professional training of veterinary technicians has been regulated, so veterinary workers must be kept up to date. The Ministry shall monitor the application of this law through inspections and certain veterinary inspections. The rights and duties of inspectors shall be governed by Articles 146 and 147. Of course, the law also contains measured criminal provisions for non-compliance with this law. The funding for implementing this law has been provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget and is provided for each year. Of course the G17 will support the adoption of this law, since it's a good law. As for the law on the agency for veterinary, phytosanitary and sanitary laboratories, it is one small law, there are three members, or five, but this law regulates one significant substance. This law empowers the government to establish an agency for veterinary, phytosanitary and sanitary laboratories as a public agency. Of course, the agency will manage and coordinate the network of food control laboratories, animal veterinary control and phytosanitary control of plants, as well as sanitary control of drinking water, as well as control of fertilisers, pesticides, seeds, fruit material, embryos and eggs, and all in order to protect citizens from health-free food, as well as improve the profitability of agriculture and food industry and raise the competitiveness of our agriculture for export. I thank you for your attention, and I am truly calling on all MP groups to support both of these laws and the G17 plus will support them in a warm way.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-20-0.u19842	The word is made by MP Arsen Kurjački, authorised representative of the DSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-20-0.u19843	Dear Vice President, members of the ministry, distinguished fellow MPs, I must admit that I was a little surprised by Mr. Masic's first appearance when he in some way accused this ministry of not respecting this assembly by not attending the Committee session. I don't think that was correct, because we adopted a set of laws from agriculture, and indeed every time both the minister and the resolution assistants were always present at the sessions and they made it possible for us to get into the essence and problem of the regulations that are being passed. It is not correct, especially if we know what is said; it is the work of the opposition, of course, I agree with it, but we have not learned from Professor Mašić, because he is a very correct man and therefore the president of our Committee on Agriculture and so far we have all the praise on his behalf. In this second presentation, Professor Masic was actually the real and professional opinion, because he is one of the most competent to talk about this. So, I think we can commend the Ministry for the work we've done so far, because we've always had maximum co-operation and it's not right now to mention genetically modified soybean and all those things that have nothing to do with this law, and we know very well that they haven't been in this ministry's jurisdiction so far. Let's get back to this law. I think the Ministry has so far and in this law confirmed the practice that it has been so far, and that is to respect both the profession and the science. This law has suffered more versions, which means that it was not hard to follow those original versions of the ministry, but it was listening to the voice of all those interested in implementing this law. A lot of debates have been held throughout Serbia, where we, as the DSS, took part and gave our opinions and improved these proposals, and the final public debate was in the Great Plan, where all relevant factors for the adoption of these regulations were indeed present. So, in addition to representatives of all parliamentary groups, not only of the members of the Committee on Agriculture, but of all those who were interested, there were experts from veterinary institutes, colleges, veterinarians from veterinary stations, and representatives of the private veterinarians' association were present. So, all those who were interested in making these regulations. As important as these regulations are, we can only analyze this in the current state that we have in the agrarian industry, primarily in livestock production. We all know how much we used to be big cattle and meat exporters, and what kind of problems we have now. Let's also remember the famous "Balkan Birds" affair some famous Greens tried to impute our hunting organization. This has nothing to do with hunting, but it has to do with the export of meat and the inability to export meat from our country because of the non-compliance of the rules, because of the lack of authorised slaughterhouse industries and everything else the EU requires. So there are many reasons why these regulations had to be passed. They're finally, after more versions of the alignment, right here in front of us. We at the DSS MPs' club can say that we are satisfied with these proposals, that we have taken full part in matching these regulations and we will support these regulations, because we think they are necessary, that they are comprehensive. These are the regulations that are reflected in EU rules, all respect. I wasn't on the board yesterday, not to talk about how the board was scheduled yesterday, but I see over 20 amendments have been adopted. This means that the Ministry respects everything that is right and meaningful and there is no reason why these laws should not be adopted, so both laws have the support of the DSS and we will support them.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-20-0.u19844	Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search of the application for a word, in writing, with the order of MPs, submitted by the SRS, G17 plus and DS parliamentary groups. I give my word to the MP Dragan Rafael, and let the MP Zoran Masic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-20-0.u19845	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after the presentation of the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, I am considering giving up the good part of the discussion. What to say after Mr. Micovic's discussion, especially Mr. Mašić, who are the people in that branch and who spoke so well of the law. Anyway, I'm going to look back on some things, what's very important first of all to us peasants who are in production and well-being that this law will bring. At first, I'll repeat what everyone said. It is simply known that this law protects animals from infectious diseases, and thus directly and indirectly, humans. You've all seen that these days, only at the announcement of the danger of bird flu, is as much work as the Ministry of Health had with the Ministry of Agriculture. So this law is a prerequisite for such things to be warned, especially about laboratories and all those institutions that will monitor it and prevent such things from happening. Then, this law controls the production and transport of animals, animal products and all food used in the diet of domestic animals, up to the table, as it is said. You know how important that is. Not to mention what was happening in the EU and what threatened us, from the disease of mad cows, and so on. This law will also allow our livestock and processing facilities to finally break into the EU market. At first, I will remind you, I do not know if any of the MPs had the opportunity to attend a seminar organised by the EU in 2002, when the High Representative of the EU gave that lecture in the Federal Assembly. I had a question from Imlek, which was not yet privatised at the time, but with his leadership's efforts he did everything to enable the export of his products to EU countries; they also bought a pasteurisation device, new lines, a new packaging system, they did field controls, and cooling devices, etc. They failed, although Greece asked them to go to that market. Then I asked the High Commissioner, "Why, when they meet all the conditions?" You know what he said to me, and that will be the point of my exposure, he says – in the EU there is only a security administration above the veterinary administration and all the food imports are under police control. It's not just enough to have all these devices and equip production, you need laws, controls, laboratories, marking and tracking. That's what this ministry did. I can inform you that in Obrenovac these days the marking of animals has begun and that it is one of the greatest and most important measures, along with this law. So this law is, above all, important for the export of our products to the EU. I also call on opposition MPs to vote in favour of this law, given that they have said all the best about it, not to be subjective to the amendments they have submitted, because a good part of them has been adopted. Simply, to find a way for those amendments that comply with the positive legislation and therefore cannot be accepted, to solve them in walking, the ministry is in a mood and I think the minister will talk about it when the amendments come to order. In addition, the law has received a positive assessment from the EU. That's very important, especially now that we're waiting for the signing of the accession agreement. What's most important to us in the country? In my opinion, the most important thing is to privatise public veterinary services. I work with them on the ground as a producer who has a lot of cattle, and also in the municipality, I run one business exclusively for livestock. I can tell you that all the problems we have, we have right in public veterinary services, so to state institutions, we're much easier to co-operate with private. You saw for yourself that the law provides that where there are no private veterinary cells and hospitals, the state is obliged to establish public veterinary services, so it has to follow the whole territory, and that's very important. I think it's a matter of veterinary advice. So, the Ministry will not only make decisions and measures, but it will make that advice that will be the profession, where there will be teachers, where there will be veterinarians, doctors of science, people who do so. A good part of the responsibility will be given to the profession, as in this debate, the profession said everything she had. There's a lot that's gotten into this law. Besides, that's what you heard from Mr. Mašić. The public debate, I said, was very long and quality. Just to mention the board meeting in the Great Plan, where everyone was: vets, teachers, and institutes. I think we've been working for two days. From what I've seen, most of it has entered this law. Now I'm going to look back at the two amendments that personally attracted me, and I think that, from the point of view of practice and what's going on with us, they're good. It's an amendment to transport within the municipality, in one part, that all vehicles don't have to be registered, especially if we know our peasants are going to have a hard time doing it. However, when I put the film back and I remember that three years ago the swine fever appears in a municipality where I live and always the same people, always the same man is driving, under cover of night, some of them being "tamics" or it doesn't matter what kind of vehicles, of course, unrefined, bought somewhere in forests where pigs are grown and not vaccinated, and three times a few months, three years in a row banning the traffic of pigs on the market in Obrenovac... No matter what seems difficult for us and for the villagers, it will be very difficult for us to accept these things, I think it is, in essence, good, especially knowing that in two years, there will be no vaccination of pigs against swine fever. Therefore, they will be produced in fully healthy and secure conditions, which is a condition for exporting pig meat and processing to the EU and to other countries of the world. I think the Ministry is right after all; no matter what, let's say, subjectively, I would like my neighbors, me and all of us to go easier in that story, I think that's what we should do. The second amendment is also very good, if we return the film of how some of the veterinary institutions are privatized, it is that the government adopts a special programme of privatization of public veterinary cells. It looks good and it's fine, however not only on appearance, but also practical. This morning we talked about it and tried to make efforts, we MPs from the ruling majority, and members of the Committee and the Ministry, however, simply that amendment would be in conflict with positive legislation, especially privatisation. You will hear and see that the Ministry is ready to make one such recommendation, make a decision just to do and deliver it to the Privatisation Agency, to create one program. I'm up for it, my G17 Plus party, and the Ministry, that those who do this job can buy, not only veterinarians who work in public veterinary stations, but all people who do this profession, so everyone who's interested can buy to do it, not to buy public veterinary stations, someone who's going to shut them down tomorrow and not implement the measures programmes, etc. So, I will repeat once again at the end what the High Representative of the European Union said at the seminar; he said that the veterinary law and all the veterinary measures are a condition for exporting our products there. I call on all MPs of all MPs to vote for this law, because it is clear that whoever does not support this law despite such good measures, we have heard them from the opposition, in fact, vote for our products to be unable to go to export to the European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-20-0.u19846	The word has a folk MP, Dr Zoran Masic, and after that, MP Dragan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-20-0.u19847	Mr. Vice-President, Madam Minister, co-workers from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I will continue in my debate about where I was standing in the principle debate and through the discussion to present what is good and acceptable to the veterinary profession, and it is regulated by this bill. Certainly, I will also point to what we in the SRS think is not well done, and I will particularly apostrophe what is the position and view of the veterinary profession, because for certain regulations provided for by this law certain written memos have arrived in front of veterinary organisations. What is relatively well regulated in this law compared to the previous one refers to animal quarantine. It's a significant segment in animal traffic control. It has often occurred that animals are in traffic without adequate documentation, primarily animal health certificates, without so-called. a passport guaranteeing that those animals were subject to medical supervision and that there was a problem with what to do with such animals when they are trafficked. Quarantine security is now becoming an obligation, both local self-government, one or more municipalities, so the government will establish quarantines as public services in municipalities where these quarantines do not exist. I think it's good, only to be realized, because it's not such a cheap job. A very small number of municipalities today in Serbia have quarantines or such facilities where they could be stored, kept or placed animals and kept up with their identification and return to the owner or sending, possibly, to slaughter, so that this is a significant provision, only that the state can find the funds and in municipalities where there are quarantines provide adequate space and conditions. In particular, the problem is that today we have very unconditional quarantines, where the animals we import are stored, and those animals that are imported as reproductive. It is that the veterinary inspector must write a solution and confirm this solution that the facility meets the animal health conditions, but I also know, as well as a large number of fellow veterinary inspectors, as well as the field veterinarians know very well what facilities are quarantined and placed animals imported as breeding animals, where it has often occurred that during quarantine these animals are born. We had in the press a few months ago that imports of a number of breeding heifers precisely caused by inadequate quarantine by the deaths of calves and cows imported as breeding animals. We also have situations, depending again on who imports, that veterinary inspectors often know that they close their eyes and write a solution that the facility meets the conditions for quarantine of animals, although it objectively does not meet veterinary-sanitary conditions, but because it is an importer that helps a party or has other political influences. I also have such knowledge and arguments for such quarantine of animals from imports from individual importers that are related to the ruling establishment. Such a thing should not happen in the future, so it is good that we have built real quarantines that the state will properly care about and that there are adequate animal accommodations that will provide exactly the benefit that this law regulates as an obligation to keep animals. This law certainly needs to significantly improve the development of livestock farming and the quality of livestock production. That is why we have proposed an amendment prohibiting imports of cloned embryos into this country until further notice. We already have a phenomenon in the world that animals are cloned and that as such they grow and use their products in human consumption. I must say, first of all, that it is true that a small number of such animals exist, which are held as productive animals, but recently, perhaps 10-15 days ago, there was an article in the newspaper that in America one owner has about 10 cows cloned as musars and has a problem that milk from these animals cannot be placed, because simply people will not buy because of the fear of using such foods produced from animals that are produced by genetic engineering or cloning. We believe that this law should further prohibit imports of cloned embryos, and that their imports may be allowed only for scientific research purposes, as allowed for imports of live pathogens imported under controlled conditions and exclusively for scientific research purposes, or possibly in manufacturing veterinary establishments dealing with biological production, which require certain micro-organisms to immunise animals from which hyperimmune serums or vaccines are obtained. Of course, that license is issued by the Ministry and it's good to have it under the control of the Ministry. We think it's good that under maximum control imports of reproductive material, means sperm, egg cells, fertilized egg cells, embryos, but absolutely not allowed to import cloned embryos. It has already been mentioned here that this law regulates the collection, processing and destruction of animal carcasses and animal waste in a good way, since we have the appearance of major infectious diseases even in some developed countries. Lately, we've had this bird flu, where killing is done to contain a large number of animals; in some countries we've had so-called. Crazy cow disease, where there is also a measure of killing infected animals, even suspects; it is a large number of such animals and there is a problem that these corpses or such animals are harmless to remove, so that their body parts are not potential sources of infection. This law provides for the establishment of a public service to collect, process and destroy animal carcasses. Unfortunately, we have several bigger ones, and sometimes, in some cases, they were also high-quality, cafilarium. They're mostly located in Vojvodina. Some have successfully worked and produced these side products or, let me say, they produce cafilarium, which is meat and meat bone flour and bone flour. However, due to the overall situation, but also to carelessness, the institutions or plants have been destroyed. It is good to undertake an obligation by the State to regulate this service by being public and by establishing and providing funds, obtaining new equipment and enabling such an infectious disease to occur, where there is either mass death or where there is a measure of eradication or control of infectious disease, killing a large number of animals should be carried out and they can be properly and irreparably removed. This law regulates veterinary-sanitary controls and international animal traffic, which is also important. However, what we have made an observation and what we believe is not properly regulated, and particularly not in line with the existing legislation, is exactly veterinary and sanitary control and international traffic. Solutions for the import of animals, products of animal origin and food are issued under the Federal Animal Health Protection Act and those solutions are always required to ensure that those imports are subject to the health control of the product or food of animal origin or feed for animals, as well as the diagnostic testing obligations of imported animals, and again in accordance with the programme of measures, but also in accordance with the potential threat to certain infectious diseases, either from the exporting country or from our country. In any case, there was a legal obligation to control everything that crosses the border and enters the country. Now it is given only as a possibility that control can be done, is not strictly required and we think that it is not good, especially in a period when we are a country in transition and when we buy anything or can sell anything to us. I think it's a good thing there's a legal obligation to control it, and in some future period, it's possible to select. However, the truth is, in Article 124, where import licences and transportation permits are regulated, there is a possibility that entities that are previously controlled and where there is evidence that these products satisfy health care can be imported these products without control. Previously, shipments from these and such objects or such states must be controlled, so that we may say – here, these satisfy our legal regulations and we will no longer control them. That is why our proposal was to make this more explicit for now and that it must be controlled, and possibly later by amending the law to allow for a different regulation of it, and in line with the requirements, above all, of the World Trade Organisation. I'm aware that there are demands of this kind, but we're not in the World Trade Organisation, and I'm afraid it's going to take a pretty long time for us to become a member of the World Trade Organisation. Then why do we tie our own noose around our necks or legally regulate something that no one commits us to? What I want to potentiate, and above all, is related to animal welfare, we have quite a number of animal lovers' associations that have often put pressure on the veterinary profession, on veterinary inspection to treat animals inadequately. This law clearly states that it is forbidden to abuse or torture animals and animal owners and keepers in a humane way and to protect them from suffering and pain by always providing appropriate veterinary assistance without delay. This is only part of what is regulated in Article 138. It's even wider than what I read, and I think it'll satisfy just all those supporters of animal protection and welfare. Finally, there should be a legal obligation for those holding or rearing animals to behave adequately and to provide adequate health care. What is also well regulated in relation to previous legislation is the obligation of professional training and veterinarians working in field practice and particularly veterinary inspectors. I think it's something that's in the spirit of modern viewing and modern demands for veterinary profession. Unfortunately, in a number of veterinarians there is a habit or practice that when they finished college they left books and forgot they existed; eventually, if they went to some scientific or professional gathering or something new they heard. Through this law, in fact, veterinary inspectors are primarily required to follow modern legislation, and also veterinarians who are involved in veterinary practice have to be educated, because they will also have to have additional education in the extension of the licence. Finally, about this veterinary law, which is most important for us from the Serbian Radical Party, it is a requirement of the profession to regulate the way and process of privatising the veterinary service. It's already been said here that the veterinary service in our country, I'm talking about field, 50% is private, 50% is state. Normally, veterinary inspectors are civil servants or clerks. These 50% state-owned public institutions, primarily veterinary stations and specialist veterinary institutions, should enter the transition and transformation process by adopting this law. The profession's request was also expressed at the latest advice of veterinarians held on Zlatibor, and I will be free to read to you afterwards a letter from the president of the Serbian Veterinary Society, who referred this assembly to me as president and related to this issue. The request is for this veterinary service to be privatised under a specific government programme. It means that the first service is declared to be of general interest, because as such it is of state interest and that the state has a constitutional obligation to provide animal health protection throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, if there is a commitment, then the state must worry that the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia is covered by the veterinary profession, meaning, adequate veterinary institutions, whether these are hospitals, stations, clinics, etc. We therefore believe that the Government should develop a special privatisation programme, not that the privatisation of public veterinary services should be under the existing Privatisation Act and that the work is carried out by the Privatisation Agency, as all other factories, institutions, etc. are privatised. I'm afraid we'll have, and that's justifiably the fear of the people of the veterinary profession, the situation that some veterinary station or some veterinary specialist institute will buy some owner who's engaged in some work that has nothing to do with the veterinary, as we've had a situation that the Veterinary Institute of Zemuna has bought a company that deals, among other things, with a tricotage. sewing suits, etc. I think it's inadmissible, especially for veterinary services. Therefore, an amendment was submitted before the Serbian Radical Party to privatise public veterinary services under the government's programme, normally within a year to enter the procedure, as there will be many problems, as there are many unresolved property relations in these veterinary cells. Normally, it can't be privatized where property relations aren't solved. I must inform you, and above all MPs from the ruling coalition, all colleagues from the veterinary profession, that the basis of our final commitment to vote on this law is this particular member, because we cannot accept this law unless it defines that the privatisation of public veterinary services will be under the government's programme. And propo, I am showing a letter with a memo from the Serbian Veterinary Society, which was sent to me as president, and I think it is also addressed to the President of the Assembly, which reads: "At the 17th consultation of Serbian veterinarians, from 7 September to 10 September in Zlatibor, the issue of the adoption of the veterinary law in the Assembly was discussed in the context of the proposed issue, and in light of the new law and the need to adopt a plan for the privatisation of the veterinary profession in the Republic of Serbia. On the basis of the conclusions reached at the counselling session, we ask you to represent on behalf of the veterinary profession of the Republic of Serbia the interest and attitude of our profession, firstly, that the veterinary profession is a service of special importance. Therefore, the privatisation of the veterinary profession is part of the programme of work of all veterinary institutions in the country. Second, the privatisation of public veterinary professions, veterinary cells, VO centres, veterinary institutes should be regulated and carried out under the Government's programme within one year of the date of entry into force of the law. Third, the privatisation of the veterinary profession in Kosovo and Metohija should also be carried out under the same government programme." Certainly, it was counted on those municipalities and enclaves where Serbs work in public veterinary stations. Unfortunately, and I mean somewhat to the shame of the Ministry of Agriculture, above all, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and public veterinary stations in Kosovo and Metohija are absolutely not financed by this government, as the healthcare service is financed, as other services are financed, but are literally left to themselves. On two occasions, the Committee on Agriculture sent a letter to the Ministry of Agriculture and asked for the way and possibility of funding and the service provided, I say, by fellow veterinarians in enclaves and municipalities where Serbs are the majority population. Unfortunately, nothing has been done in this regard so far. I'd like to conclude my debate on this veterinary law. Let me say something about this second law on the Agency for Veterinary, Phytosanitary and Sanitary Laboratory. I want to say at first, and this is what the public and MPs of the ruling majority in this House know, that the SRS is absolutely against the establishment of agencies, because we consider it to be parallel institutions already existing and existing state institutions that have a control or supervisory function over certain entities. We are particularly opposed to the establishment of one agency, because we see no meaning, and it will be impossible to coordinate the work of one agency, where the veterinary profession, the military profession, through the phytosanitary laboratories and health services, means, human medicine, through sanitary laboratories, where under one hat should cost 31 institutions, and within that 31 institutions fifty, if not more, different laboratories. It's just amazing that someone like this could have suggested something like this, that's all. in the explanation given here, it is clear who ordered it and suggested it, in 2002 and 2003. In 2002 and 2003 there was another government in this country. You who now came to power shouldn't have or shouldn't have accepted something like this, because we don't see the point. This is just because, when we get through the money program, I think those who give money, we could explain differently, I guess we're professional enough, competent and smart enough to look at what they're imposing on us and suggesting they don't. I'd like to hear in which country there's one agency like this that works. In an explanation of the rejection of the amendments, you say: "At first the agency would employ fewer people, until the stage of equipment and professional human training is completed, to then employ about 150 people, which would enable the agency to successfully exercise its competence. "What will 150 people mean? Why 150 people, when those 150 people are already working in the institutions that you plan to be under here? Is it necessary from these institutes, the health care services, the agricultural cells to take people, to gather them together in one place just to be under the hat of the Ministry of Agriculture or the Government? I think it's something that's absurd and unacceptable to the professional public. Since I've wasted my time, I wouldn't go into the details of this, I think enough arguments have been given, and we're going to give it up for further consideration in detail. All that you've given as an analysis of the effects absolutely does not stand, for example, to establish a better coordination. How can the coordination of 31 institutions be established from one centre? It would be logical for me if certain subjects... Let's say I take an example of veterinary specialist institutes, which, according to certain criteria, have no personnel potential, no equipment, no quality system, accredited laboratories, etc. and you from the Ministry say – gentlemen, you no longer meet our criteria and you can no longer do the work under the programme measures, you can no longer do the laboratory tests and you need to privatise yourself, change your purpose or you will not work for the state, but for some other subjects. As far as veterinary institutes are concerned, you suggest five institutes leave that system. So, they have to privatize in the next period, change their performance. But if you want to do that, you can set up those seven institutes, and you've also declared the Belgrade Veterinary Institute less equipped and less personnel capable of a national veterinary laboratory compared to the New Sad Veterinary Institute. Not because I worked there and was a director and I have a working relationship there, but objectively, the veterinary profession in this country knows that the Veterinary Institute of the New Sad is the most equipped, highly qualified institution. If you wanted to have a real reference and national institution, why does everything have to be in Belgrade? He could've been running for that national lab that's gonna be public. This was to be taken into account and managed by the institute, along with the Ministry. So, the Ministry could declare reference laboratories that meet the conditions and that will be from the CARDS program funded and said – gentlemen, these are laboratories. You have excluded the Institute of War and Vr., as the most organized and highly qualified and most equipped institution to carry out phytosanitary checks. Do you really think that they should be shut out of the system just because they deal with seed production and control their production? Make sure they're controlled, in addition to controlling themselves, by some farm station that's at least close to what they have. But don't throw one of these institutions out of the phytosanitary control system when they've been key to the phytosanitary control of everything that comes across the border to this day. Now you're going to establish a national laboratory in Batajnica, which will be phytosanitary and will do the job. I don't think that makes any sense, because it's all costing this country. You're saying the funding for the establishment will be 22 million. It's just for starters. As much as it'll cost later, it'll only be the taxpayers who see it. We had a situation, when the Agency for Medicinal Products was founded, it was said that 100 million dinars were separated and that would be used. This year, the budget rebalance allocated another 20 million to the Medicines Agency. That's how it's gonna be for this agency. Is it necessary to give such a thing so that I don't know who hired and to introduce some quasicontrol, if there is a completely different, more professional and logically linked control and control over certain institutions, which I ultimately think is also the purpose of a law called the Agency's Law. You who have competences in the field of agriculture, do it for veterinary and phytosanitary, and let healthcare do it for sanitary institutions or health institutions and let those money that will be used for the establishment be used to equip and increase the quality of the work of those institutions, not for something like this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-20-0.u19848	Thank you, Mr. Machine. The word is made by MP Dragan Petrovic, and let MP Dragoslav Milkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-20-0.u19849	Dear President, honourable ministers, colleagues and colleagues, today is one of the most important laws in the field of agriculture, the Veterinary Law, which the G17 parliamentary group supports, and I hope you will support that same law in the day of voting. The importance of passing veterinary laws is primarily to protect animals from infectious diseases, and thus to protect people from infectious diseases that can be transmitted from animals to humans. This law provides for controls in the production and transport of animals, products of animal origin, food for animals. Control provides a qualitative aspect that ensures consumer safety. The Veterinary Law will facilitate the process of integrating our agriculture into the EU. So far, there have been two laws: Animal Health Act and Animal Protection Act against infectious diseases that threaten the entire country. The proposal for a veterinary law combines both laws. The bill regulates the protection and improvement of animal health, the identification of infectious animal diseases, as well as measures to prevent them. It also provides for the prevention and eradication of infectious animal diseases and diseases that can be transmitted from animals to humans. It is regulated in Article 8 that veterinary activity may be carried out by a legal person as a veterinary clinic, veterinary station, veterinary clinic, veterinary pharmacies, as well as a animal reproduction centre. The paper in the law is also the possibility of carrying out veterinary work in an area where there is no organised animal health activity, in a way that the Government can establish a public veterinary service. A license, and it is a newspaper in this law, can acquire a person with a degree in veterinary medicine and with at least a year of work experience, passed a professional exam, professional results and a recommendation from two chamber members. The law also stipulates that local self-government is required to organise a service in its territory to capture and take care of abandoned animals, as well as the harmless removal of corpses from public areas of municipalities. The newspaper is also the "Hasap" programme, where it is the obligation of legal persons and entrepreneurs to introduce and implement a programme of risk analysis and control of critical points in production. It is also foreseen that both legal entities and entrepreneurs must have a permanent working relationship to have a responsible person responsible for implementing the programme. This is also a guarantee that only a consumer safe product comes out of the market. Under this veterinary law, all organisations must comply with the veterinary-sanitary conditions prescribed by law regarding expert staff, facilities and equipment. Animal health services will be provided with veterinary services based on quality of work, services provided and results obtained. For the first time, the Veterinary Act provides for an entry into the register of animal breeding and keeping facilities and facilities for the production of products originating in animals. By introducing higher standards for export facilities, our products will be easier to export to the EU market. The new law prescribes the obligation to mark and record animals, which will give better animal traffic control and prevent illegal trade. The Law on Veterinary in a completely new way and with a new approach regulates an extremely large and important area of animal health and the protection of people from infectious diseases. Since Serbia has excellent conditions and good potential for the production of safe food of animal origin, this law creates a foundation and regulates the system of veterinary services. All of this can produce a good effect for those who would produce and export, so our farmers can expect a better profit. G17 plus will vote for this bill, and I urge you to support the veterinary law in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-20-0.u19850	Thank you, Mr. Petrovich. The People's MP Dragoslav Milkovic has the word, and let the MP Branka Bosnjak be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Milkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-20-0.u19851	I'm a vet by profession and it's my turn to say something about this law. Last year, the Veterinary Hospital of the Shop submitted a request to the Ministry of Agriculture for the assignment of a field vehicle, I mean a "lad level", but to this day, the Committee on Agriculture has made no decision, to this day none of it. Yesterday I saw a gentleman from the administration, he says he doesn't have any money. If there's no money for an underdeveloped and poorest community... Look what the stock fund is over there. There's the poor people, he lives off that cattle. I come from this municipality, where farming was traditionally developed, the people lived for centuries. First the factories closed, chains and locks were placed, and now private households are closed. The young world flees downtown to Belgrade, works as physicists, has no business, old people can't guard cattle and it's shutting down. It's a huge territory, along the Macedonian border, and that's where the state's problem will come from. The people are moving out, they're making tensions from neighbors. You read in the paper, former President Kiro Gligorov said the Prohor Pcinski monastery is theirs, from monastery to border crossings is five kilometers away, and said it will include European institutions to review the border. Our government is silent about it, and it's not responding, and I'm surprised. Next, by 1991, the law was that every municipality had a veterinary station, regardless of the number of veterinarians. In 1991, the Animal Health Act was passed, so they merged these small municipalities, so they made these cells medically with one veterinarian. You have now put in this proposal that veterinary clinics work with one veterinarian, a veterinary station with three, and that's good for these small municipalities. However, the problem will arise in that when privatisation is made in these small municipalities, the privateer will not buy it, purely for economic reasons, because the privateer can't make a profit there, he goes where he can make a profit. So this is an undeveloped municipality, it's your Shop, Bosilegrad, Black Grass, where the state needs to lie down, to finance, because people work in abnormal conditions. The vet's 15 years old has one cold level, recently collapsed there, people wanted to die. I call upon you group to reach the Shop, to see how the people live there. If you gave up, which is an integral part of Serbia, then say it is not an integral part of Serbia. And the great victims have fallen; this territory was freed in 1912 on 9 October, it is your first Balkan war, the battle of Kumanov, or revenge for Kosovo. Fortunately, it is the purest Serb municipality in Serbia, 100% Serbs, except now this situation has remained empty since 2000, it narrows down like a woolen sweater after washing. This government will bear great responsibility for that. This municipality, which I say, has sold houses in Presevo for the past month, according to the DSS MP, 17 Serbian houses have been sold. The Albanians bought it and the people are moving out. Furthermore, several acres of the country have been sold for 180,000 euros. The state doesn't react to that at all. So Serbia is gradually narrowing down. Why have they fallen so many victims for this country? From 1912 to 1990, 4.5 million people, or our ancestors, fell, and we are obliged to keep Serbia within the existing borders. God forbid Kosovo should be an independent state, and the European Union and the Americans are to blame for it, the south of Serbia goes, that's clear. We'll stay down there on our own. Ma'am, I'm speaking to the Minister, I'd like to ask you a question. By 1980, undeveloped areas, experts, veterinarians received some stimulation from the Republic of Serbia Fund, bound these people to stay there (received trade, Bosilegrad, Crna Trava), how much pay he was paid, so much the Fund gave him, and those people were bound to stay there and now there will be a problem with all this when it was realized. About so much. I'd like a little bit later when I'm done with you coming out and telling me, for two years, I've been begging you for one cold level, and you've spent so much money on various affairs, no sign of a single vehicle to the Shop. Now I'd like to refer to the law. This law has a lot of things that are good, there are some things that are not acceptable, they may have been omitted, and yesterday we discussed it on the Committee. Veterinary clinic as an organisational unit – well, one veterinarian and all of this is stated, what needs to be done, but the veterinary clinic cannot carry out the traffic of drugs on a small scale. In particular, yesterday I explained, a veterinary clinic in the Shop is 60 kilometers away from the center of Vranj. In order to buy pills or a bag of powder, if this is not allowed, I suggested yesterday that the Committee adopt an amendment, people will come and say – why do you go there when you do not have medicines. Next, trade, I mean private, selling food for small, cattle, and the vet can't sell, it's absurd. Whether you're short or not, I don't know, but yesterday I suggested that you install it with one amendment. Furthermore, you listed in Article 31 – veterinary workers; everything is fine, you just left out what I said yesterday on the Committee: veterinary technicians. That member must stand, you must fit him in. You put here that veterinary technicians can't perform surgical procedures, make a diagnosis, prescribe treatment and self-medicate, that's fine. "Veterinary technicians under special circumstances, with the consent and under the supervision of veterinarians, may perform certain surgical procedures. "Yesterday you explained to me that a veterinarian cannot perform, but it is not a diagnosis, it is a simple surgery where the ovaries are removed from the stern, which rarely anyone would like to do. You threw this out, and then the question is, what are we going to do with this number of veterinary schools in Serbia, where are we going to get that frame; then stop the schools from having a fit, because where are we going to get these people who can't work? That's also an observation. Next, Article 96. The bill, we put the amendment, you don't accept it. So: "The transport of animals is carried out by vehicles that meet technical and hygiene conditions and which are recorded in the Ministry. "The biggest cattle market in southern Serbia - Ristovac, I invite you to come, on Sundays. If a man makes the cattle sell, if he hangs the trailer, I mean the pigs in particular, if he drives them off with a drawer, by the south, how can he register a vehicle? The second thing, a wagon vehicle is also considered a carriage with horses. The man puts the cattle and goes to the market, and where does that vehicle register? I want you to come out and explain to me how he can register a vehicle in the Ministry and stretch cows, oxen. Come, the place is called Ristovac, there may be thousands of animals there on Sundays. Who's going to do what you predicted to regulate here? It should be stated that the vehicle is properly technical or that an inspection has been carried out by a veterinary clinic or a station, there is no need for it to be registered in the Ministry itself. If that happens, it'll be a circus, it'll be crowded, the police will have problems, they won't be able to get close to the market. They'll also have problems and veterinary inspectors. Furthermore, you in small underdeveloped municipalities, such as the Shop, have no veterinary inspection. The length of the border is 80km towards Macedonia. Macedonians have border police, ours have five or six soldiers and do not provide a border, it is open, and I am an eyewitness: when animals are more expensive with us, Macedonians transfer them here. The point should be thrown at those border areas where the outbreak of the disease is open, the circulation of live cattle goes uninterrupted. In 1996, when she was a foot and foot, we were on day and night. You only have veterinary inspectors in the district centers. Who's gonna cover that area? Furthermore, you predicted that the municipal service would remove the corpses. When the animal dies, I guess the veterinary inspector needs to examine, suspect an infectious disease, take samples, send it to the lab. The communal service dumps and burys. Secondly, you should prescribe in that member that local self-government build caves or cattle cemetery. It's not regulated anywhere in the law. They throw rivers, pastures. Therefore, please do, the Ministry of Agriculture is one important ministry for the state, to create a plan and programme for southern Serbia. Huge conditions exist for the development of livestock. The factories are already closed, the people live on cattle and from the sale of livestock products. I would suggest that the ruling majority in voting day accept our amendments. Otherwise, we won't vote for this law. These are the key amendments, what I have explained about Mr. Masic's means of transport and amendments to the privatisation of the veterinary service. Do not let the veterinary stations, the ambulances buy tycoons, work for five years and turn later into a shopping mall. It takes 15 or 20 years to deal with this activity. Those cells are supposed to be bought by people who do it. Second, I wanted to say something about these orders. For example, we had a stock fund -- 20,000 sheep, cattle, goats. When there's a murder, there's blood coming out and going to the lab for questioning. It takes a cow to kill itself, and for months, the Ministry hasn't provided money. There's been a case of man selling to smugglers in Macedonia. The money came, and he sold the cow. Furthermore, in these poor municipalities for these ordered measures: brucellosis, TBC, there is now a marking, the price should be more expensive, because he from the Shop to Nis needs to go 500 kilometers in both directions and drive the blood to an analysis. Who's going to finance it? He doesn't have that money. The Ministry has to. I'd like you to explain a few things to me after this discussion of mine.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-20-0.u19852	The People's Messenger Branka Bosnjak has the word, and the Messenger of the people, Milorad Krstin, shall be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-20-0.u19853	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister and her advisers, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, as express support that everyone, including us MPs, is particularly concerned with their specialities, I despise politicians of general practice and those who are experts in all areas. That's why MPs G17 plus are talking about laws that are related to their professions. The exception to this rule is my discussion today of the Veterinary Act. I have reported that I am speaking to single out this law as one of the most important ones to adopt this congregation. This is a systematic and comprehensive law that the state of Serbia is stepping out of the 19th century to the 21st century. Serbia's agriculture, especially livestock farming, can be the most profitable industries and major export potential. In order to achieve this goal, we need to regulate this area of legislation, bring them into line with European legislation, do not make a mere desire for EU membership, but because it is imperative and if we want to export food of animal origin or if we want people and good people to pass through our country, rather than being fenced and put into a civilization quarantine. The Veterinary Law regulates animal health protection, defines infectious animal diseases, disease prevention measures, detection, prevention of the spread of animal diseases, as well as diseases that are transmitted from animals to humans. The law also prescribes the conditions for the exercise of veterinary activity and the jurisdiction of all persons and legal entities. The law defines the rights, but also the duties of animal owners and holders, their obligations to care for animal health, to consult veterinarians and inspectors in the event of a threat to infection, to register animals and landowners, to mark animals, to keep the prescribed documentation. Organisational areas in veterinary activity under this law are: veterinary clinic, veterinary station, veterinary clinic, veterinary pharmacy, animal reproduction centre and artificial insemination and laboratory. The Ministry shall establish a service which shall maintain a single register and shall give solutions to the fulfilment of the conditions for carrying out veterinary activity. The law clearly defines the conditions to be met by veterinary workers. A veterinary chamber shall be established, its competencies defined, licences introduced. They are issued on every five years by persons who have graduated from veterinary school, have passed a professional exam and appropriate references and recommendations. The special chapter of this law is dedicated to protecting animal and human health from diseases that can be transmitted from animals to humans. The rules for the construction and maintenance of facilities in which veterinary work is carried out shall be strictly prescribed, in particular registered and registered by the export control number of export facilities and they shall satisfy specific veterinary-sanitary conditions. At the Ministry of Agriculture, a central base of land and animals is formed. For each marked beef, a passport shall be issued in which each movement shall be entered. An animal can be placed on the market if it is marked and originated from registered land. It is accompanied by a health document, which issues an appropriate veterinary station. The law prescribes rules for the transport of animals, conditions for animal sales, situations where animal quarantine, type of facilities and sanitary conditions for animal slaughter facilities are required. The law also regulates rules on the production and transport of food of animal origin. In order to be comprehensive, it is also necessary to establish adequate veterinary control, especially at border crossings, for consignments in imports and exports, with an emphasis on removing the risk of infection in the Republic of Serbia. All persons are required to apply environmental protection measures against harmful effects related to the cultivation, holding and transport of animals, food production and products of animal origin. They're all obliged to deal with animal scraps and corpses. It is forbidden to throw animal bodies into rivers, leave on roads, open spaces and in forests. A particularly important segment of this law is the part that protects the welfare of animals. It is forbidden to torture and abuse animals. It's an obligation to worry about animal health. Animal holding facilities must be constructed and maintained in accordance with the biological needs of animals. It is forbidden to organise, finance and host animal fights. Infringers of this law are provided for adequate penalties and even prison sentences, especially for those who cannot be considered veterinary workers and who carry out veterinary activities, as well as for those who cover up the risk of infection, resulting in the spread of the disease. This law will not support only those who are unable to grasp its value and significance. Anyone who loves animals, who has pets and those who don't, and who doesn't want to be threatened by other people's pets, will support this law. Do any other capitals in Europe have this many stray dogs? Does the earthquake tell us about the systematic daily killing of these animals? Are we worried about children being attacked by aggressive dogs trained to fight? All of this is solved by systemically introducing order, law, respect for the law and consistent punishment of the offenders. That's why this law, because of its comprehensiveness, is a veterinary constitution and should be owned by everyone and the rural and urban households. In the act of law - Penal Codes, because of everything we treat animals, some of us could already find a criminal provision for ourselves. In support of this law and the work of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management to remind ourselves of some of the results of the Veterinary Administration. The reorganisation of the veterinary service has improved its work and efficiency, enhanced inspection work, strengthened criminal measures against unconscious veterinary inspectors. Legal regulations are harmonised with the European Union and reduced brucellosis disease. New ways of reporting, controlling and monitoring infectious animal diseases have been introduced, in accordance with the European Union. An animal protection programme for bovine leukosis, brucellosis and tuberculosis is in place. The control of classical swine fever, foot-and-mouth disease, mad cow disease and itchy sheep disease is carried out. Due to all that has been said about this law, the G17 plus party invites all MPs to support both of these laws in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-20-0.u19854	The People's Messenger, Milorad Krstin, then the People's Messenger Vitomir Plužarević, and the People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-20-0.u19855	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the aim of this discussion is to globally point to the lack of a proposal for this law, at the very beginning I have to look at the details that are very important. In order to get as close as possible to international institutions, we are building this product called the veterinary law on the facade, while in practice and reality we lack a valid foundation and about the other elements of this project that we don't even talk about. It is nice that we want to move forward, but in order for the problem of veterinary and whole veterinary services to be seen, it must be taken out of the classrooms and pass the course by itself and in a direct conversation with veterinary workers to come up with certain knowledge. In conversations with scientists, we face the fact that on the ground every day we have confirmations of the survival of highly contagious diseases, which are not directly coordinated with human safety, but are causing huge economic losses. The bill mentions basic provisions, including infectious diseases that cause major health problems with negative economic consequences for our country. The following text states that an area without disease is the territory of a state or part thereof without the presence of a specific infectious disease which has been found to comply with the rules on the absence of the same disease. How do we think to enter international institutions when maltenes are proven daily by new cases of swine fever, which by economy is quite devastating, because destroying the numerous throats of pigs is a step back in our economy. We already mentioned infectious diseases need to be resolved for a long period of time, and it is taking more and more wave each day. There are a lot of objections to the text of the bill, and one of the key is that in practice the imposition of a competent veterinarian to implement the programme of measures and other services to perform the therapeutic part of the job will be carried out. The ministry tried to come up with an idea of standards for obtaining the right to a program of measures, but it turned into anarchy in the field according to my knowledge. There are services that are 24 hours in that place and are doing all the services to the owners of livestock in the domain of veterinary services, in daily direct contact with all the problems that plague them, and then there are solutions that some service will come with several vehicles to carry out the programme of measures, and in a few days it will disappear, with what will happen again when the next part of the vaccination is carried out. A solution must then be imposed on people where they trust their animals to an institution, and according to the Ministry, another service will implement a programme of animal health measures. Only the Ministry is directly responsible for the work of a veterinary inspection, which objectively cannot carry out the task because there are few on the ground, with a scarce number of vehicles, so they must selectively carry out their work, and I have witnessed that in some populated places they have not exercised control months ago. These are direct problems that some infectious diseases in our country will not be eradicated for a long time, because for their reduction there must be a quality vaccination, which is not carried out properly, and what is done is practically no one to control the inspection. The measure programme, for example, was given to stations that did not even have a registered facility in the place for which they were obliged to implement the programme. From talks with residents of the populated town of Elemir, which is only a few kilometers away from my place of residence, I learned that the solutions brought by the Veterinary Administration led to the fact that mandatory vaccination was not even done in the spring, not even now in the fall. People in that village are completely confused because some unknown persons enter their courtyards and present themselves as competent services only for the implementation of the programme of measures. The locals are in doubt referring to the advice of the institution that has conducted the programme of measures by this year, which in that village, but with experiments, and by mistake, the Ministry took away their right to vaccination and as in the chess party, it transferred the village from the hands of its workers to the jurisdiction of the service that is tens of kilometers away. The lack of this proposal is that the human factor on the ground is ignored, because, according to us, it is a pillar of the success of law enforcement. How can it happen that on the ground we have workers of a station who are 365 days on that part of the field, live and work there 24 hours a day, are in daily contact with the locals, increase the livestock stock, improve the wind, and in every respect they are forced to watch no one with a couple of vans come into their village and do a programme of measures and get financially stimulated and leave it. Why are the principles prescribed by the Ministry must be trampled, that there must be an object that is registered, when in the field that is not the case, and who will assume responsibility that the services entrusted by the Department of Veterinary have not carried out the mandatory vaccination, which puts the whole country at a very risky moment? The following text states that it is prohibited to carry out veterinary activity to persons not considered veterinary workers. We agree here, but what about the persons who are in charge, like the Veterinary Authority, who, to follow the law, should not even sit in those institutions, and not, as is now the case, manage the essential parts of the institutions. It's high time for people who are professional in institutions, not for functions to be divided into other patterns. I would touch here and the fact that the infirmarys on the ground are very modestly equipped to carry out these measures, and the money on the other side is completely illogical. This applies to the draft law on the Agency for Veterinary, Phytosanitary and Veterinary Laboratorys. I wonder why all that waste of resources and establishing control over the control bodies that already control all these conditions. There are a number of veterinary, phytosanitary and sanitary laboratories that, with the control measures so far, are doing quite successfully, and I believe that imposing the agency and the financial burden on us is not beyond what we need, and neither is this country. The problem with this bill is that the whole of it is based on rhetoric and stories, which is why the promoter is unable to look at the big problems on the ground and get down to the workers and understand the problem in the conversation. The problem itself may be in the heads of these promoters, but they must understand that the government is transient and that the quality of the legal proposals is more than their careers. It needs to be seen in practice, and this is weakly defined in the proposal, except for criminal norms, in which the field will be curbed by surging, how better veterinary services on the ground will be made possible, how to enable veterinary inspectors to be able to respect their tasks in quality, and not, as is the case, to put out fires when they erupt because there are no people or equipment to be preventively detected. How do you control the decisions of the chief of your own structures and prevent their hasty decisions from leading to the above mentioned absurdities and confusion on the ground? How do you overcome the problem that the locals of my village travel 60 kilometers to obtain a passport, or certificate of animal health? How do you prevent numerous examples of trihinoscopy methods being performed on ordinary microscopes, with several times the usual price? These are all elements that are bypassed by this bill, which are essential, because if we solve this successfully, the upgrade itself won't be a problem, and if we don't do this, this project will be very ugly and certainly won't resist the time ahead. With my presentation, I was intended to point out some of the shortcomings that arise from this proposal and to appeal to what the closer cooperation between veterinary services, animal owners and people in the ministry can be done, because that is the only way to solve emerging problems. Serbian Radical Party MPs will not vote in favour of a veterinary law that is unsettled and with failures in legal provisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-20-0.u19856	Thank you, Mr. Christin. The People's Messenger Vitomir Plužarevic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-20-0.u19857	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are not the last country in Europe to pass or pass this veterinary law. There are other countries that are unable to follow this dynamic of legislation at this European level. We have largely maintained our existing laws in this area the biorhythm of animals and everything that is related to veterinaryism. We have tracked this area in an indirect manner to professional analysts and institutes that are highly recognized in the world and in the environment. Just consider this institute in Novi Sad and Zemun, and other institutes that took care of and followed up on veterinary issues. This law and other laws relating to agriculture are essential laws, not only for Europe, as you mainly comment, they are important to the citizens of our country themselves. I also have to make a certain comment: we have not been in the middle of nowhere, we have already had a certain level, and this level today should be upgraded by this law, or this law should only make up a platform, if adopted, and I hope that the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party will be set to the level that it can give initial impulses in this area. The law was expected perhaps five or six years ago, but opportunities in the country were such that the resolute ministers in charge were unable to put it and deliver it to the assembly procedure. Today's ministry has worked on this law for more than a year, and we, as a Committee on Agriculture, have followed this activity, and we wanted this area of agriculture to be more dynamic and the laws to come before the assembly procedure more quickly and quality. If the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party are accepted, in particular Article 164, I believe that a positive comment on our part can then be expected on this law. If the minister and the services accompanying the law do not accept it, the Serbian Radical Party will be against the law. This law regulates and applies to public veterinary services and to the system of private activity in the veterinary sector. The ratio of 960:1100 in favour of private veterinary cells merely indicates that this area should be privatized. This privatisation should be related to the profession, not to the profit, which I consider to be the basis, but when it comes to human and animal health, then the government of this area has to regulate for the benefit of human health, not for the benefit of profit or who knows what. This law in its 169 members wants to regulate this area in a positive sense, but all of these 169 members could not at this time give the desired result that is expected in each member. The MPs will try to correct this to the amendments, and we have already done so on the Committee on Agriculture, so that it is likely that this law will be corrected to the amendments as the amendments have been delivered to the assembly procedure. There are some illogicalities, related to the transport of animals at local level, since the local level has geographical gauges and roads between three and 50 kilometers. In that direction, this will likely be regulated by the amendments, so that the ministry does not also deal with this minor transport of cattle that is transported and transported to the place of trade. It's regulated by Article 96. We, as the SRS, are struggling to stop this law and ban the import of genetically modified animals, and even to ban imports of cloned embryos. So that attitude is very explicit, and we're going to be at every level to stop this kind of action of the Ministry and the Minister. We know that there is already one story in Serbia, and that is evident, we know that soy, corn and all that is genetically modified, that we already have problems here. It should not be allowed by this law to, at a small door, these genetically modified, or cloned embryos come into our country. How will this law be accepted by our older population who has the status of nursing homes? Very difficult. I don't know how we're going to act educationally or informably or in any way, when we know how they produce today and how they deal with agricultural production, and how they're going to manage to do it. As far as clinics are concerned, I think they're positively set up by this law, but we, like Serbia, and I've consulted a little bit, don't have any clinics in Serbia of that nature. I don't know if we'll be able to train these clinics through standards or otherwise, and that these clinics can produce certain results, as clinics in France, Italy, Germany, etc. do. As far as quarantine is concerned, I think he's put this legal project in the right place, too, if the government provides enough resources. If he doesn't, then it'll be a colorful lie, as I know, in previous legal projects, we've had these colorful lies, so I hope he's probably the only one who's going to be set up as a story. I also wanted to comment on these quarantines: there are already quarantines in Serbia, and I'm going to give you a quality quarantine here in Srem, which is Karakusha. This Karakusha may have imported a certain amount of deer game from Hungary 7-8 months ago, and that deer savage went through that quarantine. I think we already have some experience here, and we can make positive comments on all these activities. Animal welfare. We Serbian radicals stand up and I think we'll respect this member. We like animals, both small and large animals, and I comment on this because Serbian radicals always push us there like we're a little bit on the other side. No, we really appreciate it, and we think he'll appreciate it. I wanted to underline once again: I think that this amendment submitted by our Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture (and which we, as a Committee, highly appreciate and respect) is by the Government, or the Minister and the team accompanying this legislative project should accept. You heard, I think that message has been sent to you by all the people who do the profession and who know that unless that amendment is accepted, that is, that privatisation is not realised as it should be, we will not vote for this law. If you are in progress, I expect the minister will surely accept it, because I think it would be my turn for her to accept it as a minister and for this law to receive that positive comment from the Serbian Radical Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-20-0.u19858	Thank you, Mr. Sluzzard. The People's MP Branislav Stevanovic has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Miroslav Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-20-0.u19859	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Proposal for a Veterinary Law is also of great importance, especially when we see a clear objective, which is to monitor the process of transition and privatisation of veterinary cells that we have all over our country. Also, the great importance of this law is that it regulates the monitoring of animal health and the feeding of animals themselves. We have in mind that in daily nutrition meat is one of the basic products that we use. Of course, and how important it is to consume what is right and best quality meat. We had a few laws we talked about; soybeans, soy buckshots, many negatives affecting the human organism were mentioned. Also, it should be pointed out that there is a need for self-inspective supervision, which is necessary. We've got a big anarchy and a big mess in this area, when it comes to veterinary and agriculture and livestock at all. In Article 4, where veterinary activity is formulated, point 2) is said to protect animals from infectious diseases. We have been faced for more than 10 years with many infectious diseases that come mainly from the West, and politically speaking, this five-octobaric infection since 2000 is still going on. However, when it comes to animal protection, various diseases occur as per some continuity. We can hear various comments whether there are any specific animal poisonings when we consider long-term bad practice, illegal imports of suspicious quality goods, especially when we consider meat and meat products, where we in Europe are one of the few in force. Of course, the ministry should bring special attention in this direction when it comes to the export of hero and other animal meat, because we certainly deserve a special role in Europe. Food control is certainly necessary, because every day bringing it into the body, there are many undefined and unquality meat products. So, if we look inside our family in the last 20 years, how our children are growing up fast, which means that in the food they're using, in the pâtés and everything else, there's everything. Particular attention should be paid to this area of food control. Also, water control used by animals. Unfortunately, it must be pointed out, none of the previous speakers have said that, we have a poorly resolved situation in Serbia regarding water supply. Unfortunately, many residents in Serbia use surface wells in rural areas; residents themselves don't bring in quality water in their own organism, and animals don't talk. There are more bars, streams, even rainwaters, etc. All owners of farms, companies, registered farmers are largely aimed at making the most of it, at moving faster, at profiting in financial terms, while not taking care of the quality of food and not thinking about the aspect that is most important in all of this. With this bill you propose a large number of institutions, as is necessary to have a veterinary office, then, veterinary institute, a national reference laboratory, a veterinary chamber and another service, which is a zoohygienic service, which deals with the collection of dead animals' corpses. However, we believe that the veterinary council is a higher institution, as well as the agency you are proposing by a special law, which, we have heard many times from this speaker by Serbian Radical Party MPs, has an interparty importance, where you will hire your colleagues. The function itself, as Dr. Masic said, will not have the agency, because its work is practically inconclusive, given that the agency covers 31 areas, which include more than 11 laws, as far as I have seen. So, in a practical sense, as Dr. Masic, representative of the SRS, said, the agency really won't be able to function, it's one of the extra institutions that you are setting for interpartisan reasons. Also, you've given a special note here about the slaughter of animals. Of course, there should be special attention, especially when it comes to hooves and these larger animals, so to speak in the People's Dictionary, that's what's going on. Therefore, this is where hygiene measures should be taken and it should be arranged. I also mentioned earlier, Madam Minister, that you have in mind, your Ministry and yourself, to pay particular attention to the export of meat from our country, given that we are among the first in Europe to produce cattle. It should be noted, you are in the campaign, and many parties have made strong promises in that direction to speed up agriculture. In some parts of Serbia, local self-government has been able to partially meet farmers, and we need to consider particularly farmers who have more than five hectares of land, who really need to meet, because they have left these meadows and pastures. They need to be met, given some credits, such as for these heroes, musar cows and other species of cattle, so that it doesn't heal, so that the pastures don't fail, and that it's a convenience, that it comes back through milk, meat, etc. We Serbian Radical Party MPs, in case you accept a number of our amendments, will support this law; otherwise, on the day of the vote, we will decide how we will vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-20-0.u19860	Thank you, Mr. Stevanovic. Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, before the conclusion of the joint principled search, do the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want to hear the word? No, I don't. ) Does anyone else want a word that did not exercise their right under Article 93? Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Does the word of the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry Mrs Ivana Dulic-Markovic want? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-20-0.u19861	Dear Members, first of all, I would like to apologize to the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and to all MPs who are members of the Committee for not attending the Committee session yesterday. In the assessment of some priorities, it seemed to me, based on one year's experience with the Committee, that it was better this time for the debate to be at a professional and competent level, as it was throughout the year. I just misjudged it, I apologize again, it won't happen on my side again. I have great respect for the members of the Committee on Agriculture, who have indeed participated during the year, from strategy to other laws, especially in this veterinary law. I express my satisfaction that they have helped us to come to a good and quality law, which we will be able to apply in practice. I would like to point out something about the objections concerning the animal welfare or animal protection law – it is one of the priorities of the Ministry, its draft is already being seen and in the form of a draft we will deliver it to the Committee on Agriculture, so that everyone has the opportunity to participate in its adoption. As for the amendments, as you have seen, we have been very open, along with all those amendments that have been argued, to adopt those amendments that give us the opportunity to make our legal system possible. I see two here that are really important and we fully understand them. It is an amendment concerning technical and hygiene regulations in the transport of animals. It will certainly be done in the accompanying rule. I call upon all MPs who had good ideas to participate in the creation of this regulation. As far as privatisation is concerned, the Ministry's interest in privatization of public stations is to be done under a special programme, because we were among those who opposed to buying someone who sews underpants, but we will try to solve this legal problem today. Whether the Ministry of Economy will allow us to interfere in some way with their action, we'll see about that. On the other hand, the ministry will certainly influence the agency to work on a special programme, which means that it is working on a tender privatisation and that the profession defines pre-tender conditions. It is clear to us at the Ministry that there are problems that the Members of Parliament are instructed, in certain places, regarding not only the vehicles but also the work of the service. We think it's this law that will allow the state and the private sector to solve these problems, starting with obliging the state to organize a public station where there's no private interest, so that it empowers veterinarians to do some of the inspector's jobs in places where there aren't enough inspectors. I have to take a very short look at the objections to the law on the agency for veterinary, phytosanitary and sanitary laboratories. As you know, this agency is a priority in the European partnership. This government and the party I belong to see absolutely as the priority of our EU accession. In this regard, the Agency is not only our obligation to the European Partnership, but also in all those inspections that come to us from Brussels, which are not about them, but are about us, therefore, one faster establishment of the system of exports. The whole system that exists now, where there are good examples, I have to quote just one of the last speakers who said they exist for profit, so the system of testing and diagnostics in many cases exists because of the profits the laboratories make, and not because they would protect the safety and quality of food, if I just tell you the number that the test of veterinary samples results in profit of 593 million dinars, and the state has no central database and insight where that money goes and whether the samples are actually tested or just issuing test certificates. The closest I can comment on is the phytosanitary laboratories, because it turns out, when we set up a potato testing system, that 30-70% of our seed potatoes are infected with viruses, that 13 of the 36 malin plantations are infected with quarantine disease. So it was all the material from the imports, for which all these manufacturers have neat papers from the lab that had been tested and that there was nothing. So the agency may not be the best organisational form. Now I fully respect those opinions that say that the state administration is also able to control, but at this point, when there is a great competition between doctors and veterinarians about testing, about which samples will go – because you know that on the border samples are taken and one sample goes to the same laboratory, and twice is charged, and not only at the border but also in internal transport – we think that this organisation will help the veterinary profession to remain responsible for those areas in which it was in Serbia, and to which Acquis communautaire is bound. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-20-0.u19862	Thank you, Mrs. Dulic-Markovic. I am concluding a joint principled search on the Proposal for a Veterinary Law and the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Veterinary, Phytosanitary and Veterinary Laboratorys. The session will continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours, discussing details of the first item of the agenda. I thank you today for your efficiency. Tomorrow session will be held until the debate on the item on the agenda at 1800 hours. Thank you.
