ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11394	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, the MPs, we have before us a law that, no doubt, represents a newspaper in our legal system and, in some ways, introduces the possibility that in a concrete way before, and even during the process, we try to resolve the dispute between the parties. After the adoption of the Law on the Procedural Procedure, where certain provisions explicitly provide for the possibility of mediation or mediation, here we now have a concrete law on mediation - mediation, where the way, principles and the ultimate objective of the mediation itself are defined. There is no doubt that our judiciary is burdened by the fact that there are a large number of pending cases and that a large number of cases are coming to the courts. A large number of these cases are minor and that there was good will between parties, it was possible that disputes between parties could be resolved peacefully. It is the mediation that needs to have that goal, to resolve the whole relationship of parties, preferably before the dispute comes before the court, i.e. before a lawsuit is filed. If we were to sum up some of the objectives of this law, they would be to resolve the whole disputed relationship between the parties, to try to reach an agreement by giving in and, of course, save time, energy, money and, in the extreme line, to preserve these personal and business relations in the future, and such relationships could be damaged if the dispute were to be initiated. Of course, and to avoid lengthy court proceedings, to reduce the number of cases in courts, to solve old cases faster, and to reduce the burden of courts with less complex cases, so that they can concentrate on more complex and complex objects. As I said, mediation could have one preventive role to play before the conflict escalates into filing an action, trying to bring each other down and resolve the whole relationship between the parties. It is very important to highlight the principles on which the mediation rests, because it represents the essence of the mediation process itself. Voluntaryness is one of the most important principles, because without, as the law says, the consent of the party to which the proposal for mediation is addressed, there is no mediation. Of course, there is also the equality of parties in the mediation process, but what is very important is the confidentiality of the procedure itself. It is very important that the information and facts that are presented in the mediation process are not used further during the process or that they are not presented to the public, which would violate the principle itself and could further worsen relations between parties, which would not lead to the end of the dispute. What is very important in this process is the role of mediator. The mediator, of course, is trying to ensure an agreed solution by agreeing and giving in to each other. What is important in the proposed law is the intended training of mediators for this very responsible and complex work. Also, the mediator must be a person of trust for the parties. In addition to having to build trust, it must give the impression of expertise i.e. that he has authority recognised by the parties so that he could resolve the disputed relationship. This proposed law provides for conditions to be met by the mediator. There is no doubt that such a mediator, who meets these conditions, would have that authority. He cannot, and this is a good solution to the law, to impose a solution on the parties, but he can help the parties to come to the solution, pointing to the facts behind the disputed relationship between the parties. Of course, the mediator, as I said, must be objective and it is good that the proposed law lists reasons that can challenge objectivity. In that case, we have a situation where the mediator is further excluded from the mediation process or the exemption is sought, if there are reasonable doubts that he would be biased during the intervention. The extrajudicial alignment, as a result of the mediation process, is something that, no doubt, can save time, costs and reduce the tension that exists between parties, which has led them to enter the dispute. Of course, if there is already a lawsuit, and it also provides for the Law on a litigation procedure, mediation is possible, the court can allow the parties to do so, it is 30 days and, in some ways, there is an opportunity to shorten the procedure and, as I said, the conflict is not further escalating and to maintain normal and correct relations between the parties. As I said at the beginning of my presentation, mediation is a new institute and there is no doubt that our people, who are known as people, will be inclined to litigate, or so on. A drop of litigation will take time to get used to this possibility and it will be interesting to follow this law in practice. There is no need to expect a great deal of interest at the start, because this and the media should be monitored, the benefits of mediation should be explained to citizens. This is where efforts are expected to be made both by courts and by the competent ministry to bring the citizens closer to the benefits of the proposed mediation law. In any case, the Democratic Party of Serbia will support the proposed law on mediation, believing that, no doubt, it will help to improve things in the judiciary, to dissipate a number of cases that are not so complex and complex, but in the announcement, give the possibility that the disputed relationship can also be resolved without long-term litigation. In this sense, we expect this law to live, give good results and, in some ways, encourage the judiciary to solve citizens' problems much more and much more concretely in the coming period and do more to protect their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11395	Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? Here you are, Miroslav Zivkovic, authorised representative of the G17 Plus, and Gašo Knezevic, the authorised representative of the DS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11396	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, G17 plus respects the need for European legal standards to be transposed into our legal system. That's one of the reasons we're going to support this law. The second reason we will support this law is for the obligations to be taken over by signed international contracts, no matter who signed them or who signed them, to be fulfilled. These are two reasons why we will surely support this law. Unfortunately, there is not much in this law to support it for. What's this about? In his presentation, as the legislator of the law, the minister gave a very acceptable explanation: that resolving the dispute through mediation has multiple advantages, and above all, ending the dispute by peaceful means, without long-standing proceedings before the court or other body. Also, there is a need to improve conflict resolution methods. That's where the promoter is absolutely right. Our courts are slow, inefficient, tromi. The proceedings before our courts are inadmissible for a long time, pending cases are piling up. The parties are, unfortunately, exposed to a long-term process, a long-term process that causes high costs. Let's remember, the justice that is late and that is expensive is no longer justice. It is absolutely certain that by the law on litigation, part of our judiciary will be corrected, above all, in the part of efficiency. However, it is not simple in the entire judiciary. First of all, this applies to civil proceedings. The legislator believes that citizens need to be offered an alternative way of resolving disputes. We're fully in agreement with the motionary here. It is simply believed that the courts will be relieved of some cases, which will make them more efficient. In this part, we fully agree with the legislator and the promoter. However, in order for this procedure to take effect, it must be faster and cheaper from now on. I have carefully read this law and it seems to me that there are not enough arguments in the law itself that would force the parties to settle their disputes in this way, not according to some of the already existing court proceedings. Let's remind ourselves, there's nothing in this law that's so new and revolutionary that would help us focus on this way of resolving the process. What's this about? We now have certain ways to resolve disputes peacefully and there is no need for any additional legal norms. Simply, what matters and what parties need to agree are their will. So, if there's consent to their will, no other norms are necessary. There's judicial and extrajudicial alignment. Of course, the promoter is right when he says that new, alternative ways of resolving disputes need to be found. It is certain that a dispute, a conflict between parties or parties in the process must be resolved before it escalates, at the very beginning. Of course, it is much better to settle a dispute with the encounter of interest, not their conflict. However, the legislator did not bother to give sufficient arguments, enough facts to focus the parties this way on resolving disputes. The only thing new in this process and what really didn't exist so far is the introduction of a mediator. Now, next to the judge who's in charge of calming down the parties, so to speak, is being introduced by the mediator. However, there is one problem that arises here, that this will certainly not contribute to the cost of the procedure, because the intermediary is particularly paid, and that, on the basis of Article 30(4) of the legal tariff. This will certainly not contribute to the cost of the proceedings because the parties in the extrajudicial settlement or in court settlement pay the fee, appear before the court and there are no additional costs, while the costs incurred by the mediator appear here. The second thing, we believe, is that the introduction of an intermediate institute, especially when the litigation process has already begun, will not contribute to the acceleration of the procedure, because Article 13 provides that when the court considers that a particular dispute can be resolved peacefully, the parties shall refer to the mediation process. In my view, it is a little contrary to Article 3, with one of the basic principles, where it is said that parties only carry out the mediation procedure when they agree, when there is explicitly their consent. I think this article 13 is a little bit of a collapse, so at least that's what I think. According to Article 12, someone who is expert in assessing whether a particular dispute can be resolved and who does not settle the dispute on his own in a peaceful manner, but points parties to another body. This also contributes to the extension of the procedure. Let us remember, the law stipulates that the procedure lasts for a maximum period of 30 days, but that it can be extended at the request of the parties or intermediaries. This leaves great opportunity for both parties and the court to abuse their procedural powers. Those who do not wish to settle the dispute quickly will surely use this and constantly demand a new deadline, an extension of the process of mediation. How can courts abuse this? Let's just remember that at the end of the year, everyone, to put it that way, is reading their number of solved cases. Then probably before the end of next year, we'll have a large number of references to this process of mediation, because then the judges won't have the cases in work and they'll be artificially efficient. No matter what happens forward, this law is necessary. I'm saying, it was just necessary to install some other elements that the parties would direct, I repeat, to direct their disputes in this way. What is most important, G17 plus will support this law, will vote in favour of this law and will vote in favour of all those laws that put the state of Serbia in the order of modern European states and which lead to the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11397	The word has an authorised representative of DS Gašo Knezevic. Please pay attention. I want to inform you, according to the Rules of Procedure, of the way I intend to conduct today's session. At the end of today's session, he won't be sitting until Monday at 10.00 hours. So tomorrow and the day after tomorrow there will be no session. Then, if we had finished the sixth point today, even if we had finished 18,00 hours ago that moment, the session would have been interrupted and the point - the draft labour law would not have been considered before Monday at 10.00 hours. In contrast, plan your obligations. Mr. Prince, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11398	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, I want this exposure to the beginning of a positive line and I will say that, although I consider it normal, special recognition to you personally, as a man who is always present or most often present in the Assembly when defending the law. It's a compliment to you, but not to the government, because the situation in the government is not what you do. Secondly, statistics are a miracle. You all know that statistics are a miracle, but I don't know if you all know one folk saying from around Sopot. That folk saying says, "Mica goes in the middle of the village 10% of the bridegroom." The numbers that justify the work of this congregation are powerful, by the amount of laws that have been passed, but to pass the law just to wave a number, it's kind of pointless. Why am I saying this? Because I think anyone who comes after some of the next choices, if they really want to develop alternative ways of resolving disputes, will have to change this law. So, the position of the DS parliamentary group – Boris Tadic, and my view is that it is better to withdraw this law, to give up on it, than to adopt it. Mimicria is a trait that is present in nature through camouflage. Mimicry uses animals to protect themselves from the enemy or to reach prey, food, and this microcry is actually a camouflage that takes on the appearance of another animal. Mimicry is also known in the sayings of our people, so we know that there is that which is made of mosquitoes to make donkeys. In addition, there are legends about centaurs – half man, half horse, etc. I think this centaur story is a good story about this law. Half a man half a horse, so, half a method of resolving disputes, half a different, half an alternative, half a state, and ultimately, its useful value will be exhausted in the burning. It's not a man or a horse, it's a donkey. Unfortunately, I know I'm very bad at talking about this bill, and believe me, I've been doing a lot of work in alternative justice in my life, because as you have the state's judiciary, a long time ago the state has given a concession to the judiciary and some other bodies, and there are alternative ways of resolving disputes. The problem is that this law won't solve any of the problems of the parties, or the state, and it could have gone the other way, that the challenge, the pressure the world gave you, and said, let's see how we can take advantage of this pressure. Unfortunately, that was not said in this law and of course you couldn't satisfy either party, but neither was the state interest. Of course the problem may not be in the parties. The parties are used to being bullied. The parties are used to all sorts of things in our judiciary, but the problem is that the state has not satisfied its own interest. It's a crucial problem for me, so we're going to have to be against this text of the law, not as an idea, but as a way to solve the problem. One of the elements of the sovereign government of each state is the judicial authority. The judicial authority, most harshly speaking, is being exhausted in the criminal, administrative and civil judiciary. The civil court has one specificity that separates it from the criminal tribunal and the administrative judiciary. It's about the fact that there are a large number of dispositive regulations in it, there's a possibility that parties can dispose of their rights and there's a possibility that they can align. Loaded by a large number of cases, each state can react in various ways, it can increase the efficiency of its judiciary to the limit of effort, it cannot beyond the limit of effort. But there's another way out. That second exit is to settle disputes, to throw out of the state court and transfer them to another judiciary. That second judiciary was long established. It's formed at the same time as the state. It's arbitration. Arbitrations are a state-run judiciary, an alternative way of resolving disputes, where the state, on the one hand, relieves its own judiciary, leaves some other costs, conduct of proceedings, decision-making, increases the efficiency of justice as an institution, and is engaged only at that stage of enforcement. So, after so-called. If the party fails to carry out voluntarily, and so on, the State will react with its coercive means. So, by creating alternative ways of resolving disputes, the state helps itself and does not give up sovereign authorities, to pop everywhere, and to judge everywhere, because certain disputes to this extent are disproved that for the state, whether I throw or give up my money, or I will fight for my money. It's the idea of alternative dispute resolution. Give it to others, increase your efficiency, provide them with only execution, and in this way you seem satisfied, not destroying or destroying your own sovereignty. Instead of going that way consistently, this country has made a half-step, which may be good at basketball, but the right half-step doesn't serve anything. He may be good on the other court, but not on legal grounds. You can't give someone something with one hand, take away another. It's nothing. You haven't done anything to yourself or anyone else. That's how the legislator or the legislator acted, just like I described it. He had role models in 2002, the UN commission, UNCITRAL adopted a model of rules on intermediation, alternative dispute resolution, in 2004 a directive of Parliament and a bigger Europe. There were role models. It was essential to capture the essence of the idea, translate into our specificities and give one law to guarantee it. What was I supposed to guarantee? I found nine points where maybe it could be guaranteed. First, trust in mediators, very important for mediation. So that should have been ensured. Secondly, the trust of the parties in their own ability to create procedures, so-called. Procedural autonomy of will. Thirdly, the parties themselves can create a path of resolution, so-called. material legal autonomy will. The separation of mediation from judicial proceedings – separation because it is two different procedures whose aim is the same, to solve some injustice, something someone considers to be unjust, but they go the other way; confidentiality of proceedings, unlike judicial proceedings; privacy and confidentiality of data in mediation; speed of proceedings; less price and possibility of quick enforcement of the agreement. If, from the aspect of these demands that mediation has, you observe this text that we have in front of us, you'll see that almost none of this is done. I know personally, since I've been contacted by UNCITRAL, they're terribly dissatisfied. You've received remarks, I've got them here, and these remarks are very diplomatically spoken - please give up. Don't embarrass yourself again. We don't need this law. Our house is on fire, we're combing our hair. What kind of mediation? We don't need this law in the essential sense. If you want, I agree, the ZPP, the ZIP, etc., so should this, then make it such that no one will have to change it tomorrow. You're bringing in the lawyers here as a mediator, mostly the lawyers who have no idea how many years of work experience. Who's going to be the mediator? Judge? They're going to conflict interest with their own court profession because they're going to get information there about mediation. (President: Would you like to use the other ten minutes? I will. The president of the court will appoint a mediator. Nonsense. If I wanted to go to court, I had a 324. The ZPP, the old text. I don't know this new one, which, in our last version, I don't know which one, article 324, says anyone who wants to sue can refer to the lower court first, propose a settlement and then get a court settlement. And here you have an insane process of naming a mediator, with some amazing conditions being set up by him, with incredible education. Why do we underestimate ourselves? Let's see who here, in this gym, has a college degree. I guarantee it's not 100%. You're looking for a college degree here as a mediator. We make those laws. In a way, we underestimate ourselves. Why do you need a mediator with a college degree? It's not a judicial function that's being educated by the so-called. Law school, and then he's the only one who's making some sort of frame that's going to be mediating later. No, it could be any college or any life. My people, the mediator is being made in life. Someone did or didn't. Someone has the qualities to understand the essence of the dispute, to explain the essence of the dispute, and to slowly lead the parties to compromise and it has nothing to do with law school. We have rigid lawyers to an evil god. If you want, lawyers are conservative by definition, because they have to preserve the system. They're defending the system, and we're introducing here as mediators for lawyers, who need to know how to behave. So, you have a prelude to the procedure, I'm over-normized, you have a connection to the litigation process, because that's the only way she has some fact. Only if it's connected to a litigation procedure, so if parallelism is in a litigation procedure, then you have the possibility to dictate in the record a mediation contract with the judge that will gain the power of judicial alignment and then you have the effects that are necessary. What if it's not that, what if I feel like we're having a business relationship, I don't want to be judged, but I want to settle my business relationship, I want to redefine it, and it feels like my business partner and then we really get into pure mediation. Is it possible, then, to say, to whom, in the court, to the judge? So give the people, do not joke, then I lose the basic qualities, the basic requirements that must be met, the confidentiality, the secrecy of the case, everything I say there, it is a business secret. Can you operate on a judge who's heard business secrets, that in a court procedure he doesn't use the arguments he heard in that mediation - he can't, there's no way. If he's fair, he'll be disfellowshipped immediately. If he's honest, he's healthy, he's done, he's dead for the procedure. He can be in somebody else's, but he can't work anymore. So, with this mediation, we got nothing, but a donkey that's going to wail. Now, is there another donkey in this country that's going to be weave? I don't think so, and my conscience doesn't allow me, as a man who's been dealing with alternative dispute resolution for 20 years, to take part in this text. It's just contradictory. I can't act like this and, in addition to my best wishes, to say -- this is a modern text (as the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group says or who said so), it is coming to Europe and we will vote for it, for this text. I can't say that. He is modern in the idea sense, therefore, is something that is both modern and modern. That's where his every quality ends. He doesn't have his own philosophy, his essential quality that allows the state to achieve its goal, and the state's goal is to save in the budget, less people in the judiciary, less burden on the judge, and if you want to, maybe, the possibility of raising their wages, because if you want somewhere to advance, to raise someone's salary, you can't do it simultaneously by raising the salary and the number of judges. Mr. Minister well knows the number of cases in each judge's work, what a burden it is and when they make 30 decisions a month, they feel tired and every decision is worth 1,000 dinars. Wait, is it really worth just 1,000 dinars, I don't know how much it's about, I'm making parallels. So they either have some standard, or the associates have some standard. In my day, when I was working in court, there were some standards. So don't try to go one step left, one right. That's what you keep trying to do. This law is what you're trying to do. Take responsibility for yourself and say, OK, that's your need, I say yours, some white world, you have that mediation, we don't need mediation, what the hell do we need? That's fair, and this, this isn't fair to its own country, to its own parties, to the white world. So no one's fair about this kind of behavior. As a man who's been dealing with that alternative for so many years, I really have to say it, because you won't get anything, there won't be a stranger coming here for the mediation. That centre that was founded in some court, I don't know if it's the First or Second Mediation Centre, and who had the support of the World Bank, you know you're going to lose, you already know that it's going to lose, I don't need to tell you about the assembly speaker. They're just looking for something else. So, why did they introduce it? They say the mediation came from America, it doesn't matter at all. Because the U.S. judiciary is so expensive, it skins whoever is trying to get in and out of justice, and it's burdened; and they said -- let's think like rational people, let's give these people another chance to settle disputes, save people's potentials, save time, save money, and only get engaged in one phase, and that phase is when the mediation contract is already concluded if the parties don't want to make it happen. I think that's the problem with this law, and that's why, frankly, as a man who deals with this law, not as a man who's behind a congregation speaker, I suggest you pull this off. I know it can't have an impact, that you decided to draw on your gun 87th or 90th row in law making, and I know this simply won't have a fact, but to save my soul, that's what I have to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11399	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11400	Here I am, finally, from those who seek my resignation, therefore, because of these reasons why I want to help a faster, more efficient and better-quality trial, I have now heard essentially support through this story. Now let me tell you right now, I'm not going to talk using the various examples that you've instructed, because I don't think that's right, and those metaphors here can stand, whether someone's going to write a line or not. We don't have that interest, we really want to help the people get faster and cheaper to justice, because already many people complain that it's a very expensive procedure and it's one of the ideas. About what you're saying, I'll just tell you, I know you've been dealing with these things, but a good number of people from the task force who's been working with you... Maybe you're better than them, but I'm not getting into it. I know a lot of money's been given, but we didn't get the result. This task force had to finally do, give the result, get the whole thing in a litigation procedure. We even accepted that version that could be solved by mediation before the litigation of the litigation process, but let's still use the exact facts. If they were determined from a list of judges for mediation, it's not the judge who did, therefore, they won't be able to use the information he learned, because the law explicitly states that what was out there cannot be used. In that sense, you brought up a few things that don't stand at all, looking at this. On the other hand, I'd like to draw your attention to one thing. We've joined the Council of Europe, we're on that level. We're not on that tenth step where Sweden is, so we can do as you say, that everyone does the mediation. You know, we had a problem in the previous period that some kind of mediation was being done by racketeeres, so we were coming into a situation where the people were moaning, going to court, begging for the cancellation of every contract, because by racketeering he was forced to sign it. We had to at least at this stage, until we reached some level of Sweden, to adjust our regulations and in a certain way protect this possibility of a peaceful solution to the dispute. I'm just saying, here's the center, you've got something against, probably NGOs should be doing it. I don't think it's a bad thing to do, because it used to be a model and it showed results. About 20% of the cases were completed by the Second Municipal Court through mediation. Whether it can do more – it'll probably work when the system's being stalked. But believe me, it's not a proposal because of some line, on the contrary, it's precisely the goal of doing it in a short period of up to 30 days, that people settle peacefully if they can, that they can get valid IDs and charge for what you say goes into execution, if there's no peaceful execution. At the same time, you know, he can say anyone... I wouldn't agree, even in those good countries when it takes something valid to put together and regulate a proper relationship, they go to the lawyer, to the notary, because if a man who isn't ordinary or completely knows the right, I'm afraid you'll never get any valid corrections that you might later in the executive procedure to collect. I agree that if we come to some higher level of state order, we can discuss any changes, but be sure that this is not only done to bring the law, but rather, to round the whole process in this civil matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11401	Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word is from MP Sreto Peric, the authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11402	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the law on mediation -- the SRS MPs studied in detail, conducted a number of talks with judges, prosecutors, lawyers, professional workers, then with people who are parties in court proceedings, or tomorrow it will eventually be. Based on these conversations and activities, we have come to the conclusion that this law is proposed for two reasons. The first reason is that the Council of Europe recommended that such a law be passed and the second reason, essentially, is to try to relieve the judiciary, i.e. make it a little more efficient. As far as the idea of intermediation is concerned, the SRS is not against it, and a large number of people we contacted have nothing against that idea. However, the law has a lot of contradictions, inconsistencies, vague things in it, and I don't think it's going to be applicable. He's got a lot of illusions in him. For a certain number of people when said mediators they usually think of frauds and probably this law will not have some great application in practice, although I suppose it is the intention to do so. The fact that yesterday's minister didn't devote enough time to this law and attention to explain it, and it is a man of profession, is a professional to say this, suggests that he himself is not sure that this law will have a great and serious application. This law is a procedural nature. He is tasked, or aimed at determining how the mediation process should be conducted, and he has done so. First, he said in which cases mediation can be conducted, or mediation, which is practically in everything except in two cases: in working disputes, when it comes to minimum earnings and termination of employment, because there is no arbitration officer, there is no mediator who can regulate it otherwise, because it is regulated by the Labour Act or already as it was called in the earlier period, and cannot be in criminal matters, or in criminal cases where it is prosecuted by official duty, although it is possible to solve it in an indirect manner. Then, this law lays down the principles on which he rests, that is, on the basis of which mediation is needed, for the mediation to be worked out. Then, who can be mediators, mediators, what are the rights of parties, costs and ultimately the transitional and final provisions of this law. I'm going to go in a row, and I'm going to point out a few contradictions in the law itself. Article 2 states: "The mediator (hereinafter referred to as the mediator) is not authorised to impose a binding agreement on the parties. "Of course he can't be authorized to impose a binding agreement, but perhaps it could go in the direction of suggestion the way the problem is being solved. This provision suggests that the intermediary cannot even suggest how to resolve the issue, so it can be doubted whether there is a need for such a mediator at all. Then, when it comes to the principles of this law, it is said in Article 4 that the parties are equal and equal. In no procedure, either judicial or mediation - mediation, parties cannot be equal. They may have the same rights, but the equal are simply not, because one party is guilty or debtor, the other party is a trustee or has another significant character. The privacy of the procedure, which is defined in this law, it's fine and should stand so. We don't have any objections to that. The intervention procedure is urgent. This definition, i.e. the introduction of this recommendation into the law, that the emergency procedure itself means nothing. We have a series of legal provisions that threaten us not to do something, and yet you know that in practice laws are being broken; that intervention is said to be an emergency procedure will not lead to a special solution, or efficiency under this law. The intermediary may propose possible ways to resolve the dispute, but not the proposal itself. Then its existence is pointless and I do not see any great purpose and need for such a law, or for such an orderly procedure. The initiation of the intermediation process shall not interrupt the limitation of the claim. This also speaks of the bad effects of a peace settlement, because this way of intervening, i.e. resolving issues, probably does not have the power to have this provision left out by chance. Article 13 says the mediation process can take 30 days. I don't know if this deadline is optimal and on the basis of which it's just that the procedure can take 30 days, or that it needs to be solved within that framework. Perhaps for more complex cases, and it is evident that even certain experts say that such a law could partially produce some effects in long-term procedures. If the procedure was long and could not be resolved before the judicial authorities, it is difficult to imagine that it could be resolved by the mediator within 30 days. The second point of view of this Article then states that a court or other body may extend the duration of the mediation procedure for justified reasons. It is, however, difficult to determine which reasons are justified, but it is said, at the request of the mediators or parties. Indeed, they are authorized persons who could propose an extension, but beyond this 30-day deadline, there is no other objective deadline within which the dispute would have to be resolved peacefully or the case returned to court. Article 14 of the second point states that the mediator in the appeal procedure can only be a judge. It is not clear whether it is a judge or any other, although I suppose this was subsequently observed, so it has tried to resolve Article 22 of this law, where the judge's ruling is exempt from the possibility of a peaceful procedure. The agreement by the parties involved in the peace settlement process is difficult to predict, it is difficult to implement court decisions, and we assume that when a peaceful dispute settlement is resolved it will also be a major problem. You probably know that the largest number of requests, i.e. the inquiry to the minister of justice, refers to the slow execution of court rulings and, of course, to the effective resolution of some other problems, but surely dominates this number of executions. So when we have a final judicial verdict, it is difficult to execute and the damaged party is difficult to solve the problem, that is, the compensation it needs to make. If this law is passed, we think it will be present in these cases. The parties can agree, the mediator can do the job formally, but the final solution to that problem will probably have to wait for some happier and better times. Article 18 says who might be the middleman. What the previous speaker said, that it doesn't have to be lawyers, people of the profession, maybe in some countries it can be applied, but in us it's certainly impossible and I think the greatest effects can be given by judges and lawyers, or other people in the profession. Now the question arises, if judges appear as mediators, how much will they be engaged in resolving the procedure peacefully, so that it does not completely draw them out of the profession. This is still one parallel mini court, and I think it might happen in that case... And since the minister is authorized to pass other sublegal acts on the basis of three or four provisions of this law, I assume he will probably try to hire, or delegate, the best judges. I'm afraid that the regular, regular judiciary doesn't run out of quality and good judges for a short while, and that's where the problems are. In the past three years, the system of justice has largely been destroyed, destroyed. We've got high-quality judges, we've got high-quality professional staff who've been commending each other, and you remember we've had situations that we've put people in court without a day's work experience for the Presidents of the Court. It would be terrible to get back into that situation. Article 20 of this Law states that a person who is to intervene must have at least five years of working experience in dispute and conflict resolution procedures. Work experience in the dispute and conflict settlement process can only have judges and lawyers, whether they are currently active or those who are retired, but only these people have working experience in the area and no one else can have work experience in the area, e.g. Economist, or machine or other expert... (President:I apologize, do you want to use another 10 minutes? Here you go. I'll use it. Article 20 provides that the training programme for the mediator is prescribed by the minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary, and that's fine, we don't mind, I think that makes sense. We're in advance of doubt and we're afraid, although the minister, I'd say, a moderate man, that he doesn't think of a memory that it could be solved by some agency, and here's another agency. It's interesting that this is one of the few laws in which the word agency is not mentioned and it's not there, but we're not sure that in some later period maybe even under this law no agency should be formed. Exclusion of intermediaries – there are no objections, it is specified in which cases the intermediary must be excluded. When it comes to the exemption of intermediaries, I don't think this is the happiest definition, because it is said – the mediator must be excluded from the process of mediation in which he has a personal interest. I don't think there's a middleman who has no personal interest, and at the very least he has, his own self-interest to succeed in the process. Then, personal interest is also compensation, and I don't think that this definition, or Article 23, should exist at all. It is said in Article 26 that the intermediary has the right to compensation. It's logical, anyone who engages in a business should be compensated for it, but then the idea of intervening to be reduced costs and that an increasing number of cases that are not effectively resolved in judicial jurisdiction are being referred to a peaceful dispute settlement. If there are expenses and for this part of the work done, then what did we get? We didn't get anything. It is certain that in practice there will be a number of attempts to resolve disputed situations by calming down, or mediation, but there will be no final solution, so we will have increased costs, we will have regular court proceedings that were before or after the solution of this case. We will have the costs incurred during the very conduct of the mediation process. In the case of those who need to bear the costs, it is said – the costs of the interventions by the parties are charged to equal parts. Or, they are mandatory to those costs that they had themselves, and finally the billing of costs will be distributed to equal parts by interested parties. Very often the costs themselves will be controversial, so there will be no major effect in solving these problems. This law does not provide for what will happen to parties who have high value disputes, they are legally ignorant, they have no material opportunities to pay lawyers or to hire other professionals, and the mediator will not have the right to design a final solution. It is very often that the parties are damaged, and what they agree has the power of a court and court order, so the question arises whether there is a possibility of undoing such situations. I think it should have been predicted in this law, as a law that is procedural in nature, what in such cases where the party is ignorant, and it's about disputes of great value. The state should help them a little in that case. The mediation process was attempted in 2003, in fact, by the court was suggested by all judges to try to resolve disputes by mediation. There was no big effect, even in practice, solving very few of these cases. Usually the parties try, and before this law, to resolve the disputed situations in a peaceful manner. Since they failed, without the need to intervene, they were obliged to refer to the court. I think that now the court's suggestion or their volunteering, although envisaged as a principle, will not have any major impact on solving this problem in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11403	Thank you. Do any of the other authorised representatives of the MPs' clubs want the word who hasn't taken part in this first debate? If not, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 89(4) of the Treaty, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a search for a word application, in writing, with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: DS, G17, DSS and SRS. The word is made by the People's Messenger Vladimir Homan. Comrade Homan, are you giving up? Yeah. Thank you. The People's Messenger Goran Rakovac has the word. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11404	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, about two months ago this house passed a law on litigation which, among other things, touched the issue of mediation, or mediation, in Chapter 24 of which was regulated by judicial alignment. This question was touched by the ZPP, in a way, in several members, where it gave the basic outlines of what should be intervening in our legal system, as an institute that might have wanted to be done before, but it never existed institutionally. Today, we have a law on intermediation that is comprehensive and contains provisions on both persons to deal with and on the process of intermediation. The first thing to say is what the law here defined as intermediation. This is any procedure, regardless of its name, in which the parties wish to resolve the disputed relationship in a peaceful way with the assistance of one or more persons, with the help of the mediator or mediator. I think this law is welcome in our legal system. Unlike some colleagues who had previously criticised this law as a law that would not give proper effects, my opinion is quite the opposite. I think I can give this opinion, for the simple reason that I've been dealing with the affairs that this law touches, specifically with law enforcement, for more than a decade. I am well aware that a huge number of disputes are coming to court and that it is possible, with little attention and goodwill, to resolve these disputes without the court’s participation, or in a peaceful manner. What is good in this law is that although it is mentioned in the CAP, it does not only retain property-legal relations, where interventions are likely to be the most common and the maximum number of disputes that come before the mediator will be from this area. He extended his field of interest to administrative law, i.e. certain administrative matters in which parties can dispose independently, as well as the relevant part of criminal law, where parties can also own their own rights. Here, enough has been said about the principles of the process, but the greatest critics of this law that came out here have just confirmed in their criticism that it contains all the principles that mediation must have. It's, first of all, volunteering. There was a discussion that the legislator was supposed to force the parties, minors, to go to the mediators, which is completely pointless, because mediation, so dispute settlement by peaceful means, with the consent of the parties, implies volunteering in itself, so it is quite logical that the parties must be interested and have to voluntarily approach one such procedure, as this law gave them the opportunity to choose from the list of intermediaries themselves who have sufficient confidence. Other principles on which this procedure is based – equality of rights, equality, agreement of the parties, exclusion of the public also enable this process to respond to the purpose and purpose for which it is intended in our legal system. Finally, there was a discussion on the urgency of the procedure, whether such a provision should stand or not. I would like to remind my colleagues who have discussed before me that, after the emergency provision of the procedure, there are provisions that specify that this procedure should, as a rule, be completed within 30 days. This is a perfectly reasonable deadline, which can address certain issues that will come before intermediaries, and in the event that some more time is needed to intervene, the deadline can be extended. I'd like to say a few more things about ending the procedure. The law logically envisioned ways of ending: the conclusion, first of all, of the agreement of the parties, which further discusses that it can be in the form of extrajudicial alignment, as well as in the form of judicial alignment. This means that such an agreement would be obtained by the parties before the mediator following the delivery of that agreement and by the court's certification in an appropriate manner, would be obtained by the power of the Executive Court, which would further mean that it would be immediately eligible for enforcement in the court proceedings if the parties failed to carry out the obligation they made in the agreement. It is also good that this procedure can be brought to an end, that the agreement itself can be reached before the court proceedings are in place, which means that a number of disputed relations between citizens cannot be reached by the court. So that's how we made it possible for citizens not to get into a situation where they have higher costs, and at the same time, the courts will be resolved, because we don't all have some big disputes, there are disputes that are relatively easy to resolve in this way. Given the weather, I think we should say something about who the middleman is. There has been criticism here whether a mediator can be any person or possibly need a certain expertise. As far as our people's culture, attitude towards the state and judicial authorities is developed in this country today, I think that the legislator clearly and well predicted that this should primarily be judges, possibly lawyers, therefore, persons who possess certain legal knowledge and who are essentially dealing with legal matter. But also, the legislator predicted that other prominent experts from different areas could appear here as mediators, depending on the type of disputed relationship in which they intervene. Therefore, incorrect remarks are that only those who have a law school, which deals exclusively with law, can appear in this procedure. In a series of disputed situations where citizens come, therefore, experts from other areas can also appear and provide their good services, intervening between parties having a disputed relationship, they also resolve the dispute. Finally, there were a lot of discussions about whether this law would achieve another one of its own goals, in a way, set itself up, which is a cost reduction. If the period within which the intervention is to be carried out is short, as provided for by the law, and it is, because a 30-day period is foreseen, if one person is provided for as a mediator with the right to compensation, as provided for in the legal tariff, and if it is, and if it is foreseen that no other persons participate in this procedure, other than possibly legal agents and party proxies, it automatically implies, and because of the short period in which the mediation is to be completed, as well as because of the limited circle of persons to participate in this procedure, that the costs of this procedure will not be large. In any case, they will be much smaller for the citizen who solves the disputed relationship than to appear before the court, because in the mentality of our people, when he appears before the court, to go into further conflicts, to get the proceedings going, to generate increasing and higher costs, and that a possible solution is peaceful through the ever-suffering process if the case continues. In the end, our people have, at least, the part that appears before the court, one saying, "Better is a thin alignment than a fat lawsuit," and if we haven't had a way to get to the "wet" alignment, which will satisfy both sides, now at least we have a way to prevent "fat" litigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11405	I'd like to thank my colleague, Rakovci. The People's Messenger Branislav Rankic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Istvan Ispanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11406	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although I see no one from the government, this law reminds an overwhelming reminder of the Law on Peaceful Dispute Resolution. Remember, there is tripartism, where mainly employers, trade unions and mediators perform executives at different levels. Here it's similar, we have two sides in a dispute, we have a mediator or mediator in that dispute. That is why Article 1 of this Law said lastly that this law will not apply to these disputes governed by the Law on the peaceful settlement of labour disputes. Because of this logic, we will soon be in a situation where other similar laws will appear before us, which need to resolve disputes created in areas, such as cultures, sciences, sports or art, which do not fall into classical labour disputes, but do not fall into any litigation. And then they're going to impose us here, and all we have to do is wait for the day the ministry says there's a new law, if possible, on mediation, or for some quieter dispute resolution that the parties can come up with. When I spoke about that law, I said that these laws in Western European countries were created by having the need to describe the already existing situation and what a number of certain people reported, with authority and reputation in some areas, which could have reached agreement between the parties in the dispute, not to go to court. This is the law we're trying, practically, to create a situation like this. I'm sure the law won't make it. Namely, this intervention institute exists in our people or in our country; it has not been developed enough, but it has existed so far. In the largest number of cases in the patriarchal environments if any dispute occurs, the parties in the dispute will listen to the man who has authority (by age or by some other knowledge) and manage to reach an agreement without a court. Then, there's a more primitive form of this kind of mediation, when we, the political parties, in local campaigns, come into conflict, let's say, about sticking to posters, then usually the heads of these parties at the local level agree to make these conflicts smooth, so they don't go to court. So this institute exists, but it should wait for it to develop to a sufficient extent and then practically describe it with one of these laws. Why does the need for people to be able to influence these disputes by means of a mediator impose on us? This is, above all, due to the ineffectiveness of the judiciary in our country, and there are entirely other reasons why there is a need for mediation in disputes, for example, in Western European countries. Today, you could read in the paper, if you followed a daily newspaper, that a police officer in England noticed a woman who was driving a car while eating an apple, and he thought she was using a cell phone. They hired helicopters, cars and spent 13,000 euros in the run-off to show the strength and power of the state, and this woman, although not using a mobile phone that was banned, had to pay £70 and £100 in court costs. Then they impose the need to mediate for a simple reason that day, if the mediator had at all had the opportunity to reach the mediator to settle the dispute, he would have charged his 50-euro daily, and it would have gone much cheaper. So because their courts and court proceedings are extremely expensive, they have a need for a mediator, and with us this need will appear, it already exists as an institution, only because our courts are inefficient. Unfortunately, we can't even show that the state and the judiciary have that kind of power, because if such a case had happened with us and that the state had used such instruments to reach the offender, then that offender could report to NGOs, of course, who would send a picture to the world so that human rights and freedoms are not respected here, that the police and other authorities are overruling powers. Our hands are only tied thanks, practically, to your inability to resist and to protect the attitudes of the state, to watch what is best for our country, not to bring or propose to the Assembly various laws by the ultimatums. In this law, unlike the one we discussed yesterday, at least exactly what the principles are. Yesterday we had one law, simply not to believe it came from the same government, in which of the nine points only at the last point were affected by what the principles were. All the principles (deservation, equality, equality of sides, privacy, confidentiality and urgency) are listed here, but the trouble that we have broken the principle of volunteering in at least two members of this law. Immediately, Article 9 violates the principle of volunteering by saying: "If the parties fail to reach an agreement on how to implement the procedure, the mediator will conduct the mediation procedure in a way that he considers appropriate... ". So, you don't have to have parties volunteering for that kind of procedure, you're going to be a mediator. Thus, this declared principle of volunteering was violated. Also, you have the last view of Article 9 that the mediator can make proposals for possible ways to resolve the dispute, but not the proposal for a solution itself. This attitude is completely contradictory. Here's why. What if that solution made by the mediator is the final solution, is it already forbidden in advance to give a final solution? So you could have said that he can't give a solution at all. Then the purpose of the intervention is lost. If he can give solutions, then he doesn't need to be limited so that this solution can't be a final solution. The goal of the mediator is to make that solution that he can be and finally solve. You stated here that he must not make a proposal for a final solution. Then why is he the middleman? In order not to interpret each member individually, it will take a long time, I will draw your attention to Article 16. In the first place, it says: "The facts of the agreement reached in the process of mediation depend on the will of the parties and the form in which the agreement is concluded." The next stance says, it is not up to the party to decide: "The mediator is obliged to inform the parties of the possible actions of the agreement reached and the way in which the obligations it has undertaken are met. "If the agreement makes commitments, why is it said in the first position that the fact of the agreement depends on the will of the parties? No, they have a responsibility to reach an agreement. So this two attitudes to each other are completely undermined, and they're still essentially questioning the principle of volunteering in intermediation. When you propose such laws, you should make sure that if you declare one principle, in this case volunteering, through the whole law, follow this principle of volunteering, and not in one place give it, and here in front of the MPs and in front of the public of Serbia, say that there is a principle of volunteering everywhere, and in several members, in the course of further writing of the law, you are in violation of this principle. You have in Chapter V in the general provisions on the mediator – the intermediary should be a neutral person. It's very hard to prove someone's neutrality. What are these mechanisms to determine that someone is neutral? What the SRS MPs are insisting on throughout this assembly is that the terms "other prominent experts" are not included in the laws. How will you evaluate who is the prominent expert? These are completely unnecessary terms. It's enough to say "expert," there's no need to point out. There are different ways in which someone can point out in the profession. Next, in Article 20. - Conditions for intermediation, you stated: 1. that it has high professional training; 2. at least five years of working experience in dispute resolution and conflict proceedings; 3. that the training programme for the mediator has passed (although the ministry will prescribe it, it will be a very interesting training, what can be learned and what will be trained); 4. that it is listed; etc. The following is said that conditions from 1 to 4 do not have to be met. Why did you even direct these terms if they didn't have to be fulfilled? Or, if they don't have to be fulfilled, why didn't you specify what kind of disputes they didn't have to be met for? That's one thing. Secondly, it was enough to write only that the mediator should have or must meet the conditions of special experience and knowledge from areas where the dispute is being conducted. I'll also tell you that article 21 has violated the principle of volunteering. This is attitude 3, which says, "Unless the parties agree, the President of the Court, or the elder of the other body, determines the mediator from the list of intermediaries in order on the list." Of course, this article 21 determines how to determine the middleman in the case. If the parties do not agree on who they will be, the president of the court will determine who is on the list. Where is this volunteering if it is guaranteed to the parties in the case that they will voluntarily approach all the actions carried out during this procedure? In the end, I will conclude that a future mediator is required to be a species, I would say the mild term used by Mr. Sreto Peric, a fraud. Remember that some politicians from the world had the role of mediators during the negotiations, that is, what was happening in Rambuje before NATO aggression on our country. Remember their shameful role, what that mediation looks like, and that intervention at the world level. Don't think and cultivate illusions that this mediation with us will be something different. Mostly intermediaries will be recruited by the dispute, they will be able to intercede in multiple ways. Knowing the mentality of our people and knowing the other things, I suppose this, if it's a desire for this law to dissipate the judicial branch as a branch of government, will lead to burden. I'm convinced of that, because after the intervention one of the parties in the dispute will feel deceived and then the courts will be sued by intermediaries or mediators. That'll make a lot of court practice complicated. Or, if you succeed in these intentions and introduce some other possible ways of resolving disputes in this way, out of court, you will practically one important branch of government, put judicial authority as something secondary in the system of government, and know that democracy rests exclusively on these three completely independent types of government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11407	The People's MP Istvan Ispanovic has the word, and let the MP Milan Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11408	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a law on mediation on the agenda. In the light of the law, i.e. in the presentation of Professor Gaša Knezevic, we listened to two completely different concepts of mediation, relative to two completely different concepts of what the law on mediation should look like. Surely during this debate, we will not know who is right, which concept is currently better for Serbia. We will probably not be able to determine for a few years whether this concept proposed in the law is more useful or the concept proposed by Professor. The prince. I am fortunate to have before me one law like Gašo Knezevic, which is the Hungarian law on mediation, which is not really a law on mediation, but on mediators. Mediation is only mentioned in this law in one article - what is mediation. A similar solution is similar to that in this bill, given that it is not intended for mediation in criminal and administrative cases, but only in civil but otherwise in the same or similar way to regulate what mediation is. Both laws were made on the basis of recommendations from the Council of Europe, yet it is a completely different approach in one legal project, that is, in that other law. I have tried these days to read what is as a reason why this concept of mediation, or that our mediation is somehow tied to the court, is better for Serbia today. To tell you the truth, there are a lot of reasons for the concept that is set out in this law, that is, in those opinions that I have read, and there are also a lot of reasons for that different concept that we have heard about here. I hope, however, that we will adopt such a law as was proposed and that if such a concept cannot be revived, or it does not produce results, in which case a completely different concept will surely be needed. Just a few words about this second concept, where the law in one member alone speaks about mediation, and all other provisions speak about mediators, or the conditions how mediation can be carried out, are not at all intended for the mediation process but is left to the parties. I was fortunate to speak to some judges in Hungary two or three weeks ago, and they say that this law did not bring any significant results in reducing disputes in Hungary either. Thus, it also states in some ways that this concept is likely to have certain shortcomings, and that this concept did not bring about the results that were expected. I don't think there's any difference between these two concepts, that we should pass a law on mediation and I hope that we will still have some results from this bill. I think this law should be passed, with those little changes, that is, with the amendments that have already been adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11409	The word is made by MP Milan Markovic. I'd like to thank you for postponing his exposure earlier. Let the People's Messenger Vojislav Milajic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11410	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, it is indisputable that it is an idea that deserves the attention and support of every political entity, and besides them and all those whose profession is related to these matters. There is no dilemma for us that this is a good idea, but unfortunately, we cannot agree with the way this idea has been translated into legal text. In fact, as a society, we come up with an idea that we claim to be good, whether it's a product of the West, of the East or of our knowledge, but when we come up with that idea, I think it's very important and that we courageously identify this idea in our lives. It's simple, our society is in a position where we need brave moves, stronger action, stronger body-opening, ideas that we've missed so much. That's the kind of mediation case here, and I'm gonna try not to take too much time from the MPs. I think he's a professor. Gašo Knezevic, in a very correct and professional exhibition, made all the remarks concerning this law. I will make sure that I really, strictly refer myself to two segments of this law, or two issues that are questionable to me personally, that I do not support this time the law proposed by your ministry, even though we have had very correct co-operation in our work so far. You used to have our support even though we're the opposition, sometimes you're not, but it's the result of different views on the issues of the judiciary, because, normally, we belong to different political options. The first question I want to point out is who might be the mediator. So we can say that we have two different attitudes, two different concepts. In fact, I think it is essential for the mediator to have trust and skill; that he, as an intermediary between the parties that are in a disputed relationship, should have their trust and their proper skills to resolve this dispute. I therefore consider that the conditions set out in Article 20, which are conditions for the implementation of the intervention, are too strict. I understand your concern on both the Justice Committee and the Assembly Speaker, but I think the fact that something can be the subject of abuse cannot be justified in defending a solution that is not adequate. A lot of things in this society and in any other society can be the subject of abuse, but that's not why it doesn't exist. In the end, if something can be the subject of abuse, it will also be the subject of the work of some other organs. We have submitted an amendment which we have excluded only some of the conditions required here for the mediator, and these are: at least five years of working experience in dispute and conflict resolution procedures; then, that the training programme for intermediaries has passed and that it is listed. We have kept the question of dignity, which we consider to be very important. At the very least, if we all stand on the point that it is necessary for this person to be worthy of doing the job, then it is clear that it cannot be someone, as you mentioned earlier, who is recruiting or dealing with some immoral and illegal affairs. Also, that he wasn't under investigation and wasn't convicted of a deliberate crime. Of course, we feel that, at the very least, it is necessary, at this point, for us to maintain the existence of a high level of expertise, although we can say that this attitude is dubious and I think that it is professor. Gašo Knezevic explained. This attitude is based on my belief that in order to successfully intervene, trust is necessary in a person who needs to share her skills as well as to be able to solve this problem. I do not think that the fulfillment of the conditions set out in Article 20 does not exclude the possibility that a person who meets these conditions in his nature is not similar to that of intervening, that he may be a conflicting person, or perhaps be a person like us here, who at certain times shows one or the other side of our personality, depending on the situation in which we are located, pressed by problems or circumstances that depend on or do not depend on us to a greater or lesser extent. So, my first remark applies to this, and then we think that further relativisation of these provisions through attitudes, if I am not mistaken, 3, 4 and 5 simply comes as unnecessary, because it is said: "Extremely, a mediator can also be a person who does not meet all the conditions of point 1 to 4, if he has special experience and knowledge from the area in which mediation is carried out." To me, this provision refers to this previous position of 1 and, simply, even if we keep our previous position in general, which I hope we won't do, I don't think that provision is the place. Disputes with foreign elements continue, where a foreign citizen is expected to be able to carry out the work of mediation; and a training programme eventually takes place. I have to admit, as far as the training program is concerned, the fact is, it has to exist. I don't think the question of the training programme is well worked out in law, although I have no reason to suspect that a specific minister, in charge of the affairs of the judiciary, will do so well. But both the minister and all of us who are involved in politics are transient, and it is essential that we set up a system and that the system be a guarantee of the successful and good performance of the work, particularly the impartial performance of the work, and not the person who will be there, because it is the result of certain political settlements and political results that some party achieves. My second observation is a matter of fact after mediation, or agreement. I believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as a proposing, had to go far more courageously into this issue and had to give the executive title, namely the fact of the executive agreement, which, on such a good basis, is concluded between the parties. I think it's a key stumbling block and a hub of our thinking about supporting this bill. In particular, Article 16 provides for the following: "The agreement reached in the intermediation procedure, with mutually discounted parties, concluded before the initiation of a litigation procedure or during a litigation procedure, has the power of out-of-court settlement if it is drawn up in writing and is not opposed to the public order. "On my own text, of course, I have no regrets, he's perfectly legal-technically correct, but I don't think he's good for this question. Why don't I think he's good? Because that's what we've got today. In fact, it's that the parties that have a problem can do so today, de facto we have money, the change in the content of the relationship that led to their conflict, and in the end it's not true Judicata, it's not a verdict, and there's no executive title, but if you're unhappy with the extrajudicial agreement, which our colleagues probably know here, you can start a litigation process. This certainly does not relieve the judiciary and introduce anything new, because if there is a good will between people who do not agree, they have a certain conflict over interpartes relations, they can solve it today without this mediation, without this mediation. It's quite a serious remark to me, and I think we've lost our chance to really introduce mediation as something new and brave in our social relations, something that will solve the problem more quickly and efficiently and relieve our judiciary. On the other hand, Article 16 further states: "The agreement reached by the parties in the process of mediation has the power of judicial alignment if the judge takes it on the record, following an assessment that it is in agreement with the public order. "I have no objections to the text itself in a legal-technical sense, but I have an objection to the reflection of the idea. De facto, you and today, if you come to a dispute, you start a lawsuit, you can conclude a court settlement, and that judicial settlement has a fact of a judicial verdict; after the litigation of a litigation, the state will see to it that it is executed, so that I do not see that by accepting the idea of mediation, we have really brought mediation into our lives and done what was the purpose of this case, which is to relieve the judiciary and to get to a faster and more efficient dispute resolution. So once again, let me conclude, because I think this is the most serious problem that we are arguing about and why we are so decadently standing at the point that we cannot vote for this law: everything that is provided for by the Mediation Act we already have in real life, there is no reason to believe that by adopting this law on mediation in real life, there will be a change. I repeat, the government had to enter this issue much more courageously and to have a more courageous idea, which is that the result of this trial has the power of a judicial verdict. In this way we could tell you here – yes, we have a mediation, it is based on the free will of the citizens and those who enter this process to the end have resolved their relationship. They can't go back and burden the court with their own problem. So they solved it the way they thought they needed to solve it. Besides, I have to add another dilemma, which is the participation of the court in this whole matter. The question arises, therefore, why this court, why its participation, are we really going to provide the independence that we want in this procedure, or impartiality, because this procedure, as it stands now, can easily go to trial, because the mediation process itself will not be a true judicate. I think all of what Professor Gašo Knezevic said is founded, above all on his rich experience and the undisputed knowledge of a recognised expert. This supplement of mine was simply to understand why we, even though it is an idea behind which we stand firm and we stand firm, cannot vote for your bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11411	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, George Mamul.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11412	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the judicial system, as one of three branches of government, is by its nature conservative and is based on the application of both procedural and material norms. In time, arbitration was formed as quasi-suds, where the parties provided for the jurisdiction of arbitration resolution of certain disputes arising from contractual relations. The decisions of the arbitration courts were binding and represented the executive title and were carried out in the enforcement procedure. As the third type of settlement of certain disputes, alternative dispute resolutions emerged about 30 years ago. This was designed to relate to the resolution of disputes arising from labour relations and consumer protection. So they first appeared in Finland in 1978, and then they expanded the mediation to other areas. The bill's proposal called for specific recommendations from the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers, and based on these recommendations, it has established in which areas of mediation will take place. Therefore, in Article 1 of this proposal, the law stipulates that property-law, liability, trade, family, labour, civil law, administrative and criminal relations will be resolved. However, the situation with these recommendations is slightly different. The promoter, probably counting on no one to check the content of these recommendations and enter into their essence, merely cited it as an example in his explanation. However, if the recommendations of the Council of Europe and the Committee of Ministers, recommendations R98/1, come on 21 January 1998, refer to restrictions and guidelines in the mediation on family relations. As far as family relations are concerned, there are congenital norms that are binding and where parties or parties in a dispute simply cannot change them. The nature of disputes arising from family relations is different, so that all kinds of family relationships can be resolved through mediation. According to R99/19, since 15 September 1999, there have been restrictions on mediation on criminal and criminal cases. Finally, the R2002/10 recommendation, as of 18 September 2002, envisions that mediation exclusively applies to civil rights, bonds and trade relations, consumer rights and labour relations. There is no mention of property-legal relations, and it is excluded by mediating the procedure before administrative authorities and mediation in criminal proceedings. In criminal proceedings, there are crimes prosecuted on official duty. It's probably understood here that mediation would only take into account those crimes that are being prosecuted in a private criminal lawsuit. However, this recommendation is not envisaged at all. In Article 1, it's all put in, I don't know what reason. We find it difficult to imagine mediation in the administrative process, given that we have an administrative authority on the one hand, and on the other hand we have one party. I don't know how the mediation is going to run around the building permit, who's going to mediate whether someone meets the conditions for issuing a building permit or not. In Article 1, paragraph 3 is replaced by the mediation on individual labour disputes relating to the cancellation of the labour contract and the payment of minimum earnings. We had the Law on Peaceful Work Dispute Resolution last fall, where two types of work dispute are scheduled to be resolved, individually and collectively. The exception here is individual, which is understandable because there is already a special body that works peacefully to resolve work disputes. However, it is not mentioned what is wrong with collective disputes, what about collective bargaining, whether they are subject to mediation or not. This turns out to be a subject. This law has huge shortcomings. Article 11 deals with the issue of obsolescence, and it provides that the mediation process does not break and stalemate obsolescence. However, since the concept of obsolescence is materially legal and the parties in the dispute itself point out the objection of obsolescence, that means that courts do not take into account limitations under official duty but only if the parties are called on for obsolescence, there is no reason why the parties themselves would not foresee that an interruption and stalemate could be carried out in the mediation process. As regards the duration of the proceedings, the procedure is scheduled to take 30 days to speed up court proceedings and to settle disputes peacefully. However, it is provided for the possibility that a court or other body may extend the duration of the proceedings, but is not specified how long. So, if it continues, it can be longer than 30 days. Then it is largely questionable how much the mediation procedure has even accelerated or slowed down the procedure that would be conducted in front of some judicial court. As far as the mediators are concerned, if we analyze Articles 14 and 16 a little bit better, we will see that there are two types of mediators: those with more authority and those with less authority. Article 14 provides that a mediator in the appeal procedure can only be a judge. So, the mediation can be applied in the appeal procedure, with the decision-making period being 30 days, but the mediation can only be carried out by a judge. I can't have other mediators. I can't have a judge. As for the court's settlement, the court's settlements can also be carried out only by a judge. So these other mediators can't -- they can only settle out-of-court, while only the judge can allow the parties to conclude court settlement. As far as conditions are concerned for persons who should perform the role of mediators, firstly it is unclear why only the President of the Court, means an individual, conducts a selection of mediators and assess whether certain people meet the conditions to be mediators or not. From the conditions mentioned, however, a high professional prepares, but does not specify which high professional prepares. The possibility has been left for all the people who have finished college to deal with this kind of work, which we think is wrong because there must be some basic legal knowledge to carry out this mediation process. At least five years of work experience in dispute and conflict resolution procedures is also required. However, it is difficult to find someone who has already had five years of work experience in the area, since it is a completely new area and a completely new way of resolving disputes between parties. It also sets out the condition, at point 5, that the person to be placed as mediator is not under investigation and is not convicted of a deliberate crime. Our criminal law knows imagination and stop. This probably refers to a crime committed with imagination. I think it would be more specific to indicate that this applies. Under point 6 – it is worthy of intermediation. Now it's interesting who will assess whether someone is worthy of conducting the mediation process. The following attitude says – extremely, a person who does not meet all these conditions can deal with mediation. Then all six dots can be derrogated and a face that doesn't meet one of these conditions can be selected. It has been omitted to state that the mediator should be a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. A problem has arisen in the peaceful resolution of labour disputes, because judges are reported by Montenegrin people with Montenegrin citizenship, so the ministry of labour, employment and social policy does not know how to respond to these people, whether they have the right to be judges in these courts or not. The same problem will arise, because mediators will be able to be foreign citizens. Also, some new concepts are introduced – the exclusion of intermediaries and the exemption of intermediaries. By way of exclusion, they shall mean that if the judge has any legal relationship or any common interest with these parties, in that case they will be excluded from the proceedings. The same goes for a lawyer. As for the exemption of intermediaries, that is to say of a personal interest, whether the mediator has a personal interest in resolving the dispute or not. However, all of this falls under the exception of the mediators. I don't know why it's separated, disfellowshipping the middleman from the exception. I don't see what the difference is. Finally, this law is scheduled to enter into force on the eighth day of its publication, and will apply over 90 days. In Article 120. Serbia's constitution only provides for the entry into force of the law and is scheduled to enter into force at least eight days after its publication in "The Official Messenger". However, application is not a constitutional category. The constitution doesn't mention that possibility at all, just mentioning the law's entry into force. Here is the question – what about the law from the moment of entry into force until application? In what capacity is the law, whether it exists or not? If he stepped in, then there is. This could have been dealt with differently and said that the law entered on July 1st or that some date was set which the proposer considered appropriate for the preparation and application of this law. I think this law has too many major shortcomings to adopt. I do not think the claim is that the proposaler has followed the recommendations of the Council of Europe. He made a hybrid between the recommendations of the Council of Europe and the Croatian Law on Peace, because it is very similar to this bill and differs in some particulars.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11413	Thank you, Mr. Milajic. The Messenger of the people, Djordje Mamula, has the word; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11414	I believe that this bill should also be adopted and that it is one step closer to accepting European legal standards and taking on the obligations arising from international contracts. First of all, it is clear that this bill was managed by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe's recommendations to Member States on alternatives to the resolution of disputes between the authorities of the administration and private persons, the 2002 Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe recommendations to Member States in civil matters, as well as the model of the International Trade Reconciliation Act. This bill is managed by the 2001 and 2002 solutions that are new to the European Union as well. Here we were talking about different concepts. No concept in any area, even in this area, is worth anything if there is no professionalism. The foundation of every professionalism in all areas of work, even in this area, is knowledge and conscience. If there's no knowledge and no security work, no concept is good. So it's not about the concept. On the other hand, I think resistance to this bill comes from those circles where so far there have been some monopolies in resolving disputes by alternative means. I think it's a good thing this bill, if it's passed, and hopefully it will, will contribute to breaking those monopolies, especially when it comes to trade disputes. This law, by the way, comes in the form of a proposal when private property in our society becomes increasingly significant. Disputes in front of trade courts that are being held have an increasing value; legacy has been growing lately, companies in the country, abroad, are being inherited very valuable properties. This bill comes at a time when private property gets more and more relevant. I think that he would have the right effects and it would be very important to make changes in the organisation and way of studying at law schools and that young lawyers in colleges are getting more and more ready for life, because it is not good enough to know the law; without knowing life in this field and in this field of mediation, there is no great result. That's why I think this law should be passed. I think the principles on which the procedural principles that are known in the world are based and I hope that those who wish to be resolved peacefully, in this way, will show good will and competent intermediaries will have success.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11415	The word of the Messenger of the people is Petar Jojic; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Mark Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11416	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the law on mediation is necessary because it relieves courts and allows citizens and legal persons to settle disputes peacefully. However, this bill, as it is, will not achieve the goal, and this is why, in addition to other things, it speaks of two types of mediation: before the litigation and in the course of the case, but it does not regulate special mediation prior to the case, as it does by intervening after the litigation of the case. So that's the fourth part of the bill. In this respect, the law, which is not done, should first lay down common rules for both types of interventions, and then, in particular, process one and especially another type of mediation, since there are obviously reasons that need to be regulated by law. Secondly, regardless of the intermediation, some basic rules must be laid down for both types of intervention and specific rules for certain types of intervention, which has not been done or partially done but not systematised and non-transparently. However, the process should take place quickly and develop uniformly for all interventions. Thirdly, mediators should be all full-time citizens who are taking sides in the dispute rather than, as foreseen by the law, that they can only be college-educated people with high professional training. Why? That's absolutely unacceptable. I'll explain that in the next presentation. The basis for a mediator should be that he is capable and fair, to resolve the dispute impartially, and in doing so, expertise and education do not have to be basic conditions, because life provides proof that a man who is also without these qualifications, and is fair, can achieve better success than a university professor, judge or lawyer. Fourthly, when it comes to the mediator, they should not be conditioned by what will refuse them to perform that function. In fact, the bill provides for a lot of conditions that the mediator needs to fulfil in order to carry out his function, and his responsibility for the damage he is doing to the parties in the process. In doing so, responsibility under the general rules for compensation for damages is foreseen, which means that the mediator may also be responsible for easier forms of criminal liability, in contrast to, for example, the judge who corresponds to the State only if he has caused damage to the state and does not directly respond to the parties, but directly corresponds to the State. Fifthly, the costs of mediation, and particularly the award of mediators, as envisioned in the law, will not have any effect, especially when considering the poor property situation of citizens in the dispute, which, according to this proposal, bear the costs of mediation, and they are determined and measured according to the legal tariff. The sixth, it is not clear or precise in the draft law the regulated fact of settlement in intervention. In fact, it's left to the parties that it's up to them, i.e. whether the alignment will be considered judicial or extrajudicial. The court's settlement is considered to be a settlement entered in the court's minutes, as regards mediation in the course of the case. The question arises as to how the settlement can be entered into the court minutes to become a court settlement, as the case has not yet been filed. A lawsuit before a lawsuit cannot be a court case, i.e. the executive document, so the parties have to go to trial to get the executive order, thereby delaying the procedure. I therefore believe that it is mandatory to prescribe that any agreement reached in the mediation process has to be considered judicial alignment, which will attract many citizens and legal persons to use this type of protection, as a final solution to the dispute. The experience with the peace council speaks in favour of such a solution; their function was not effective because the alignments made by citizens did not have the power of the executive id, which led to long-term litigation and they felt justified that all this time of calming had been a complete waste of time. Seven, what is not done with this proposal should stipulate that any agreement or settlement of parties should be made in writing, in order to avoid any doubts and disputes concerning its content. Also, all side proposals must be in writing, as this speeds up the process and makes it easier for the mediators to work. Eight, it should be assumed that the limitation of limitation by the initiation of the mediation procedure should be mandatory and that the court proceedings should be instituted, no later than 30 days, counting from the day of the failure of the mediation. Ninethly, there are numerous editorial errors in the proposal for this law, the inequality of text, the ambiguity of individual members, and especially the contradiction between individual members, so that the bill is unseen and difficult to apply in practice, especially for mediators who are not legal professionals. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to make a few remarks regarding individual objections to the Mediation Law proposal - mediation. Article 1(3) I ask the question to the promoters - why can mediation not be done in disputes over the cancellation of the labour contract and the payment of minimum earnings when practice shows that in these cases mediation is useful, especially for employees? Article 2(2) shall be deleted. This attitude should be deleted because the mediator cannot impose an agreement on the nature of its function under this bill. Article 3 It should be prescribed that the mediation be conducted on the basis of the written consent of both parties, and not as they say – express your consent, because explicit consent does not have to be written and legally valid tomorrow. This would avoid any misunderstandings concerning a procedure which could, according to the current proposal, be initiated orally. Article 4 should combine the proposed views and say that they are equal in the intermediation process and have equal rights of the parties to the procedure. In Article 4, Article 3, the words "must" should be deleted, as intermediaries by nature must act independently and impartially because this is a condition for their choice. Article 5(2) This article should provide that both parties must agree on the participation of third parties in the mediation process. Article 6(3) should be deleted as this is referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. Article 8(1) In the position of the 1st member, it should have been said that the process of intervention starts with the submission of a written proposal for the initiation of the procedure, rather than the misrepresentation of the proposal, as it differs significantly. Article 9(4) It should have been prescribed that the mediator could only make a proposal for a way to resolve the dispute, and that he could not make a proposal for the solution itself, because it is too high. Article 10(1) It was necessary to provide that the mediation procedure is to be concluded by the conclusion of a written agreement between the parties in the intermediation, and in the decision of the mediators on whether the procedure is justified to exclude it from having been carried out after consultations with the parties, as consultations with the parties would be necessary. In Article 10(3), it should be prescribed that the mediation procedure is terminated by a written statement by either party, giving up the follow-up of the mediation procedure, as this proposal may include an oral statement, which is extremely incorrect. As regards Article 13, the 30-day deadline should be increased to at least 60 days, as the deadline for ending the mediation process is short. That deadline should be increased to 60 days. Also, the member should have prescribed that the intervention procedure could be extended for another 30 days, so that the total may last 90 days. In short, it is necessary to delete the condition under which the intermediary must have a high level of expertise because this is an explanation contrary to the provisions of Article 18(2). The bill, where this condition is not predicted even indirectly. In Article 20, point 2 should be deleted because it is not necessary to provide for years of working experience in intermediation to be someone's middleman, and it is foreseen for five years, because man and without any experience can be a good mediator if he is professional and honest. For example, a prominent peasant, smart, can settle a dispute in the village without having a law school or being an engineer, etc. It is sufficient as a condition for the mediator to predict only, as provided for in points 3, 5 and 6 of this position, that the training programme for the mediator has passed, that it is not under investigation and that it is not convicted of the deliberate crime committed and finally, that it is worthy of mediation. As for Articles 23, 2nd and 3rd, they should be deleted because they are absolutely unnecessary. Article 24 should be deleted because the exclusion and exemption of mediators are provided for and prescribed by Articles 22 and 23 of this proposal of the law. In Article 25, points 2 and 3 should be deleted which provide that the mediator cannot impose a solution and that he is obliged to intervene in a neutral manner, without prejudice to the parties and to the proposal for a dispute, as this is entirely excessive in the light of the character of mediation and mediators governed by other members of this bill. As regards Article 28, Article 2 should be added to the position on which the party's agreement on the costs of intervention must be drawn up in writing. The agreement must be in writing because the first position of the proposal is – the parties may agree on the costs of intervention. Finally, Article 6(1) should provide that all information, proposals and statements in the process of sharing secrets, unless the parties have agreed otherwise, as other laws are provided for, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11417	We'll continue at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11418	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon work. I'm taking the opportunity to inform you that by 5:00, there will be a direct transmission, and between 17 and 18 hours, in case we don't finish until then, the television broadcast will be delayed due to the water polo game transfer. Please, at the beginning, let us determine the quorum. I ask the Members to insert their cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. We're continuing our work. The word of the messenger of the people is Marko Krstin, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Lazar Cavic. Here you go, Mr. Kristin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11419	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, we are standing before the adoption of the law, which, together with the Law on Procedural Procedure and the Law on the Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes, should circle the laws governing the process of resolving controversial issues among our citizens. I must point out in a brief historical review that we had mediation or mediation in the current legal system, not only in the peace councils, as counterpart Jojic mentioned here; these were the chosen courts, they were also arbitrations that were in the earlier applicable litigation process. So in Serbia, there is already experience in the legal system related to this kind of dispute resolution. I believe that, as then, even now, the good institute and the law that truly deserves our attention will not be fully possible to implement, given the circumstances and the objective situation which is in the legal system and in the application of the legal norms in Serbia today. I would also like to refer to a legal framework or legal environment in which we are passing not only this law, but also a series of other laws. In the light of the law, we are calling for EU recommendations, in some other laws we are referring to directives. I must tell you that neither the recommendations nor the directives are in force in Serbia's legal system. We can use this as something to compare ourselves with, and if we are already using it, then it would be very good if we had the directives and recommendations in the original text, that they were accompanied by MPs and that MPs could read these directives and recommendations to see the provisions of the law. We here unfortunately do not have the text of recommendations, at least those parts of the recommendations that would apply to this, as none of the laws that are passed under the directive do have the text of the directive. So this is one general objection to the Republic Secretariat of legislation that would have to establish a very useful practice, that what we are calling for as a framework for the adoption of the law, so that MPs know what it is and that they can read it. I must tell you that neither the directives nor the recommendations are currently published in the Official Messenger, they may be published once, and therefore do not constitute a source of rights in Serbia's legal system, as set out in the current Constitution. Therefore, in the future, I would also ask the present minister, and the Government, when the regulations are being prepared, to allow MPs to look at the directives and recommendations so that they can make a commitment. Also, I think that the Republic of Serbia has a legal system that is satisfactory in one way and that the recommendation itself or the directive, as well as the one that has adopted it, is not a guarantee that it is absolutely applicable in Serbia as it is applicable in EU countries. This would also apply to this regulation, and I believe that with a little more creative efforts, it could have been better adapted to the legal systems and procedures in force in the Republic of Serbia. These directives, instructions, recommendations that we receive from Europe should be applied, but to imitate them with our objective situation, the way it is, so that we don't get norms and regulations that can't be applied just because we didn't accept something as it is with us. That doesn't mean we shouldn't change, but there's something we can't really change and it's objective reality. Furthermore, I'm saying that this is about one text of the law that has included a lot of elements related to mediation, but I'm afraid there is one rather restrictive fact in application. I don't think here, as the National Assembly, we can be completely satisfied with the current implementation of the judicial system, with the application of procedural laws by regular and commercial courts. We have certain shifts in the best, however, it has to be significantly more efficient to solve. What I'm saying is that court proceedings, as they are, are the basis for the development of every economic system. Therefore, the economic system cannot be realised if the debt-confidential relationship does not meet the criterion of efficiency, so whoever is the trustee and has sold something to the debtor, and the debtor has not paid it, if the court proceedings last for more than a year, such a trustee fails. Therefore, we cannot admire the efficiency of the legal system. All I'm going to do is give you some criminal action in a very dreary and impoverished criminal procedure like the one in the state of emergency. To this day, we have no decision that we could say is over. So we have a lot of work to do to balance, consolidate, make an effective judicial system, and that would only make it possible to apply this law. I believe that regardless of all the benefits of this law, he has certain shortcomings. G17 plus will vote in favour of the law, with amendments fixing his text. The amendments are not numerous and I think they are easily accepted and they represent a consistent application of the concept of the law itself. What's the basic lack of law? The basic lack of law is that the law does not rely on material rights that intermediaries would apply. Someone's gonna say-- the middleman can be anyone. The law said - a high cook, and if he doesn't have high gear, he can be a particularly professional or particularly experienced man. At that time, however, he cannot judge anything other than his material right. The law requires only the application of procedural provisions. I find it necessary to regulate the application of material rights. The main reason is that the court controls the agreement concluded between the parties and if the court finds that the agreement is not concluded in accordance with the provisions of material law, the agreement will not receive legal force and the whole process of mediation is in vain. That's why we've suggested that intermediaries commit to mastering the material rights that apply to the object in which they intervene. Without that, this procedure is completely ineffective and makes it difficult for parties to pursue their interests. The next thing I want to point out is that by this law, whether I want to or not, it slows down the process and violates the "effectiveness" of other procedures that, in itself, are not effective enough. I'll just mention the provision of article 13 that limits the duration of the intervention to 30 days. Unfortunately, paragraph 2 allows the court or other national authority to extend this, to the initiative of the parties, where that is justified by it. Not only does it allow it to extend, but it does not limit the time to which the procedure can be extended. This practically means that the deadline for the duration of the intervention is open, which really makes it impossible for citizens to exercise their rights and this law should not stimulate it, that is, to regulate it. That's why I suggested that the law be deleted. It doesn't change anything in concept, but it speeds up and makes procedures effective. Why is this attitude still to be deleted? We ourselves predicted by law that the process of intermediation does not affect statutes of limitations, of prelude, therefore, something might become obsolete or be a curse, say 30 to 60 days is an objective and subjective deadline, if we leave an open deadline for the state authorities to extend themselves as much as they think this procedure. I also think I'm going to finish my exposure, so that we should strengthen the obligation to make decisions. In fact, there is no point in introducing a new dispute settlement procedure among citizens if they are not binding in a certain degree. If parties to the mediation process have the right to choose a mediator or mediator by mutual agreement, they should, in my view, conclude the agreement, and a mandatory part of that agreement should be their obligation to make a decision by the mediator that the court accepts. Otherwise, if after the mediator's decision one of the parties who trusted the mediator to do something about giving up, the mediation procedure would be completely unnecessary. So the G17 Plus MP group will support this bill. It closes certain shortcomings or gaps in the legal system related to peaceful settlements of labour disputes and all other disputes, by having certain apparitions of amendments that we propose to accept in order for the law to fulfil the role it should play.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11420	The People's Messenger Lazar Cavic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Heliana Dragojevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11421	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law does not form part of a set, or something like that, imposed upon us laws that both the Government and all those who think are the right ones. I don't know if this law is real. The word mediation is a word that needs to be properly analyzed. Mediation, mediators, and who knows which middlemen, and I remember well, or I read that there was a law in the past, that was about local offices, which was a peace council. These peace councils are today the bearers of all the principles of this law. We have to comment today, as one of the MPs said, the law is a little good and a little bad. That's the right answer. Any member may receive an amendment in favour of the litigator. The minister said he had already shown results in Slovenia. Mr. Minister, Slovenia is not a model for us in the legal profession, I guess we can do something without mentioning anyone, even Slovenia. I hope that's different. This law does not define local jurisdiction. If the intervention approaches prior to the initiation of the proceedings, this means, if the parties are in a different procedure from different places, that they may be disputed and in which place the intervention will be held. Your comments that this law is necessary because of the slowness and impunity of the courts, and the ignorance of the courts themselves is not correct. If there were courts on the agenda today, you would lift them up to heaven, how up-to-date, how dynamic, and everything would be superlative. So this story doesn't drink water, as our people say. The mediator should be responsible, confidential and have the abilities of an ideal judge. How can you do that when the economic principles in the country are inconclusive, which means we have bribery and corruption. Do you think this mediator is not subject to these corrupt principles, when you say volunteering is the strongest principle, and you all want to collect your knowledge, where is that volunteering? As for saving time, this law doesn't get you anything. We believe that mediators or mediators will be as effective as the effective and impartial court in Ruma was for resolving the electoral theft in the municipality of Pećinci in the province elections held in September 2004, when the DS candidate, with the help of judges of the already mentioned municipality court from Ruma, won only one vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11422	The word has a folk MP, Heliana Dragojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11423	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have a law on mediation on the agenda. The reasons for its adoption have been taken over from signed international contracts, the need to comply with European legal standards, and the need to improve conflict resolution methods. The draft law regulates the rules of mediation in disputed relations in which parties are free to dispose, such as the property-legislative relations of natural and legal persons, trade, family, labour and other civil and legal relations, administrative and criminal, unless the law requires exclusive jurisdiction of the court or of any other body. The provisions of this law would not apply to disputes relating to the cancellation of a labour contract and payment of minimum earnings. The resolution of these disputed relations is governed by the recently adopted Law on Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes. The provisions of this law, as provided for in the proposal, will apply whether the mediation takes place before or after the initiation of proceedings for the resolution of the disputed relationship, with or without the guidance of the court or other authority. The nature of the mediation process and the position of the parties in the procedure are exposed through the basic principles of the procedure and these are the principle of volunteering, equality and equality of parties, privacy of the proceedings, confidentiality and urgency. The bill regulates the launch, implementation and completion of the procedure, as well as obsolescence and prelutions. The intervention procedure shall begin by accepting the motion to initiate the procedure. If the party receiving the proposal within 15 days or within the time limit for the response referred to in the proposal is not declared, the proposal will be deemed to be rejected. The parties may agree on how to implement the procedure. If the agreement fails, the intermediary will carry out the mediation procedure in a way that he considers appropriate, given the circumstances of the disputed relationship, the interests that the parties wish to pursue, respecting the principle of urgency. The intermediary can conduct joint and separate talks, make proposals on how to resolve the dispute, but not propose solutions themselves. The intermediation process ends in one of three ways: the conclusion of the party's agreement; the decision of the mediator to suspend the procedure, because further proceedings are not justified; the party's statement to give up the follow-up procedure. The initiation of the intermediation process shall not interrupt the limitation of the claim. The initiation of the intermediation procedure does not affect the legal time limits for the initiation and conduct of the procedure, except where the intervention constitutes a procedural condition for the initiation of the procedure under specific rules. How is mediation conducted when litigation is initiated in a disputed relationship? When the parties propose or the court assesses that the dispute could be successfully resolved by intermediation, it will refer the parties to the mediation procedure. The court will do so on receipt of a response to the action or on a preparatory hearing, and may do so later in the course of the litigation process, until its judicial end. In the appeal procedure, only a judge can be a mediator. What legal fact will be reached in the process of intermediation depends on the will of the parties and the form in which the agreement is concluded. As a third neutral person, the intermediary cannot impose a solution on the parties, but is obliged to inform the parties of the possible actions of the agreement reached and the way in which the commitments are met. At the request of the party, the mediator will participate in the formation and development of the agreement. The agreement reached in the intermediation procedure, concluded prior to the initiation of a litigation procedure or during a litigation procedure, provided that it is drawn up in written form and is not contrary to the public order, has the power of extrajudicial alignment. The agreement shall have the power of judicial alignment if it is taken by a judge on the record, following an assessment that it is in agreement with the public order. The conclusion, facts and termination of the agreement reached in the intermediation procedure will be subject to the provisions of the Law on Liabilities which govern the extrajudicial settlement and the Law on the litigation of litigation. The draft law lays down the conditions that the intermediary must fulfil, as well as the rules on the exclusion and exemption of intermediaries, responsibilities and intermediaries, its responsibility for the damage to the parties by its own actions. Multiple advantages are the resolution of disputed relations through mediation, primarily the end of the dispute by peaceful means, without lengthy proceedings before the court or other bodies and at the same time their obsolescence. The DSS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the proposal for a law on mediation. I invite the other MPs to join us.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11424	The People's MP Nikola Todorovic has the word, and let the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11425	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, Proposer - The government is determined to arrange everything with us as it is in the world and here is a new proposal for a law on mediation, which we are considering today. The law is summed up, concise, not always clear, and I have a few grudges in that part. What could be worse than the law on which comments and explanations must then be written in order to understand some of the provisions of the law when concrete application occurs? The confidentiality act states that the information, proposals and statements referred to in Article 2(2) of the Court of Justice or other body conducting the proceedings will not be accepted. The information, proposals and declarations made during the mediation process and proposals shall be made exclusively for the purpose of reconciliation cannot be used in a litigation, arbitration and other procedure, or announced otherwise. How much trouble can there be in this part when parties in the process, taking part in the debate, present arguments that are important for the decision, with the presence of lawyers, and do not end the procedure peacefully and again come to the hearing in the court? Will this problem be expressed, that the pronouns use what they have heard in the peaceful resolution process? A vague provision is in the part of Article 9 which says the mediator can make proposals for possible ways to resolve the dispute, but not a proposal for the solution itself. What does it mean he can talk, suggest, and not only suggest a solution? There'll be a lot of misunderstanding in that part. As for the duration of the procedure, the mediation procedure may take 30 days. In the second part, it is said that the court or other authorities may extend the length of the proceedings. You don't say how much. I am also one of those who thinks that this law will not contribute much and will be in great application, except perhaps in a small number of cases of a certain type of dispute, if we know that courts as institutions, judges who have reputation and authority, large court practice, experience, do not resolve the procedure where the procedure is strictly prescribed. These disputes are long-term and costing for delay or irrational conduct of proceedings, due to the preparation of lawyers, judges or experts in the proceedings. It is not an excuse to pass another law to avoid it, but to seek the efficiency of the work of the courts. Then how do you solve it this way, where the mediator doesn't have that authority of the judge, or that reputation, or everything that the court has at its disposal to sort things out and decide how it is in practice with us. I don't think this way will be cheaper if it tries a peaceful way to solve it. That middleman needs to be paid for his lawyer's tariff. Is it on the table of submission, of representation? Does a lawyer have a tariff for certain submissions, lawsuits, complaints, audits, or something else, and just representation. What is the tariff of that mediator he is entitled to? It's not clear. Normally, if the parties in the dispute have to bring in their representative and that lawyer will demand a certain fee, he will not participate. You have to pay for a lawyer, you have to pay for the middleman. In what we're used to, we have a lawsuit on which we pay taxes, we pay MPs, we pay skill, and here we have to pay the middleman, and unless the problem is solved, all the costs we've had so far and we've been obliged to settle them. I don't think this will speed up the process, or reduce the costs, except perhaps in a small number of special cases where possible. Practically, it is necessary to seek the efficiency of the work of the courts, to shorten the procedure, to better control the authorised authorities for the control of the work of judges and courts in general because of their effectiveness. The biggest problem is to implement the decided matter in the executive procedure. There are a number of judicial rulings that the trustee cannot complete in the executive procedure, because there are many ways not to do so because of the ineffectiveness of the judicial authorities, or the state authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11426	The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word, and let the People's Messenger Branislav Stevanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11427	Dear People's MPs, the proposal for a law on mediation or mediation is basically a very bad law, whose individual provisions are contrary to many laws, especially the provisions of the Law on Prosecution. This proposed law will not show results in practice, having, above all, the inability to apply it. This law does not specify the procedure, nor does it specify what it is to intervene. Article 6(2) The proposal is in direct contrast with the Law on a litigation procedure, as this view prohibits proposals and statements from being used in litigation proceedings. It's incomprehensible. The position of Article 6(3) is also contrary to the provisions of the Law on Procedural Procedure, as it prohibits the court from adopting statements in the mediation procedure. Legal norms of the Mediation Act must be brought into line, consistent with other laws, and above all with the Law on litigation. Apparently not. The intermediation procedure is not prescribed in an adequate manner, it is not indicated who is initiating the procedure. In practice, parties to the dispute were left to agree on how the intervention procedure would be implemented, which is incomprehensible, and even so much deregulatory of the relationship is being carried out in Article 9. The bill leaves opportunities for the intermediary to carry out the mediation procedure in a way that he considers appropriate. I don't think that's appropriate. In particular, intermediation is unacceptable when parties have initiated litigation because it is only a waste of time, i.e. these 30 days as long as the procedure for intermediation under the draft law can take place, and even more so if the court determines another and longer period of mediation. In practice, such cases were tried through mediation or mediation, although there was no law. This did not produce any results, but unnecessarily stalled disputes, and often ended at the expense of the party itself. The parties may agree at any time during the litigation procedure, as it is a matter of disposition and will of the parties, whether they will conduct the procedure and whether they will conclude the settlement. Article 16 The proposal provides that the agreement reached in the intermediation procedure, concluded before or during the litigation procedure, has the importance of a non-judicial settlement. He'll practically be a dead letter on paper, which we've heard from certain debaters and professors, and it won't be possible to execute. It's not true Judicata, it's just a contract that's going to be attacked and based on who's going to be able to initiate the procedure, so what's the alignment? Certain provisions relating to the intermediary are inaccurate, e.g. What the promoter means by a third neutral person. Article 20. The proposal practically introduces a moral-political resemblance as a condition for someone to become a mediator, I should quote, "that he is worthy of mediating". I guess it was only Joseph Broz, but he did it very cunningly and secretly, and it was in secret archives, and you're the moral-political likeness of the law. Article 24 needs to specify which provisions the law will apply when it comes to exclusion, i.e. the exemption of intermediaries. Intermediate costs are inappropriately large, determined according to the legal tariff, and we lawyers all know what they are, so practically if the process of mediation failed the party to bear the costs of equal parts. Since the process of intervention is mostly ended by failure, it has been shown in practice, in these cases the parties will face new unnecessary costs, Mr Minister. It is obvious that the proponent is in vain calling for international acts and international agreements, because this law is bad, will not be applied and will remain, as well as those many DOS laws, a dead letter on paper. Unfortunately, we remain to find out, and this is the opinion of the expert public, that the proposer, for the sake of foreign employers, is passing laws that are not suitable for a moment, or the time in which we are located, and that he is ready for anything, including the destruction, or the collapse of the country's legal system. I urge you not to adopt this bad law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11428	The People's Messenger Branislav Stevanović has the word, and let the People's Messenger Miljko Četrovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11429	Ladies and gentlemen, in yesterday's brief address, the minister said that Slovenia, namely, recorded extraordinary results by conducting mediation, such as mediation. But with us, we have to admit, it can't go away, because we are ruled by chaos, riding, etc. in the judiciary. Surely this mediation -- mediation won't be able to be conducted in our judiciary. Also, here I would say that several MPs of the SRS were very studioy, from members to members said a lot about this law; among other things, Mr. Jojic, Sreto Peric, they were very studioous, from members to members, explained this law. I will make only a few of my views and comments about some irregularities that may occur during this process. It's about selecting a mediator. I see one irregularity here, and it's the very person who needs to be chosen, and more politically and morally, than the profession. Here it is necessary for a man to be of the profession so that this process can have an effect. Also, there is a suspicion here that, let's say, the mediator can abuse his position and in a certain way, with a lawyer representing one of the parties, manipulates, stalls, and eventually declares the dispute unsuccessful, so that in that case it might be more traded than realistically implemented. Thus, the question arises who will actually exercise control over that mediator. It's a matter of cost. And it is known that the conditions for doing this are volunteering, equality and urgency. It is also that in 30 days this process is to be completed and the mediator can (because it is well paid, according to the legal rate) to delay the process and to be maximum for a month, and ultimately it is a matter of the outcome of the process itself. When it comes to the dispute between the poor and the rich, there can also be an intermediary who can handle certain manipulations, by allowing those who are poor and perhaps naive in this process to possibly manipulate and convince them to accept some small sum and compensation, to respect this procedure and to complete the process itself. Here is the question, if we look at the political side, in this case Solana could be the mediator between Mr Kostunica and Boris Tadic and try to balance their political differences. Also, if we look from a political point of view, the Wolf could be a mediator between Serbia and the West, but there are costs, so it's likely that the Wolf would benefit more from the West itself. Thank you, and so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11430	The People's MP Miljko Četrovic has the word, and let the MP Momir Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11431	Dear MPs, the minister did not work very hard to explain this bill, nor did he want to be convinced that this law could be applied as it was proposed, and if adopted by the National Assembly by the majority of the government. The aim of each law should be to implement it, so the whole process, from proposing laws, through debates in the Assembly, to adopt certain proposed solutions with the proposed amendments, requires one seriousness. That is how I understand it, even the law, as the highest act the Assembly has adopted, should achieve the objective of why it is proposed, why it is discussed and why it is brought. This is not how the proposed law will achieve its objective, because the way in which this law provides for the intermediation between the parties in question will not lead to the so-called ‘so-called’. a peaceful solution to the dispute. In view of the difficult situation in the state of Serbia, the general mistrust of citizens with courts is raised, the question is whether they will now believe that their disputed relationship will be resolved in such a fast and efficient way, and as proposed by this law, especially if the intermediaries are, as provided for in these provisions of the law, by the judge and lawyers and other high-priced persons. Whether the list of intermediaries to be drawn up by the minister of justice will essentially be composed of judges and lawyers; they will, in particular, focus on mediation, rather than on solving cases, which they have received as individuals or presidents, given the compensation provided for in the provisions of this law. The middleman should have, in addition to school and work experience, and there are no such ones, except judges and lawyers, the trust of parties in the dispute. And the provisions of this law state that the mediator will be deprived of the right of mediators in the dispute if he is biased. What happens next? So he's still on the middleman list. If he is already in one dispute, the disputed relationship as a mediator has shown and proved to be biased, is there a sanction for such a mediator? At first, I said that the aim of all procedures is to make certain decisions and implement them. Often in the execution of judicial decisions, judicial and executive decisions, because of the very formulation of the dispersions in the executive procedure, that decision cannot be implemented. Will these agreements, which are concluded by the parties in question, be able to be carried out in the executive procedure at all? The biggest problem of municipal courts is executive proceedings. The greatest emergency is in that part, which is the finale of all proceedings before the courts of general jurisdiction. I know there were 6,500 execution cases in the King's time, and I don't have the data now, but these are objects that can't be executed for years. The parties to the proceedings, i.e. the trustee in the executive procedure, can now never be satisfied with the court's decision, the efficiency of the court, if the judicial, executive decision cannot be carried out for years. The question of the execution of that decision or the purpose of its execution is raised, after several years. Article 31 has been authorised to adopt a sublegal act implementing this law within 90 days. The procedure itself is not prescribed by law here, and now the minister is authorized to pass a sublegal act, and it is not stated which, probably, he will decide which and in what form there will be an act. When it comes to the exercise of the rights of man and citizen, the Constitution of Serbia, which was called upon by the legislator, cannot be left to an individual, even if it was the minister, that he, in some way, enters into the jurisdiction or provisions that must be regulated by law. There's been a lot of objections to this law here. This law certainly will not lead to more effective work of courts, because all these measures, before the adoption of this law, did not produce results for courts to be more efficient, more up-to-date and for citizens to come to a faster satisfaction of justice, i.e. to exercise their rights. There are no important and irrelevant disputes, small and high values. For every party, if it considers its interest to be at stake, that dispute is great. For someone, it's a big slow trespassing property, if they can't get into their field and process that field. It's a big dispute for someone if it's 500,000 or 1,000,000 euros, or a 100, 200-square-square-square-place place, and for someone, it's slow if they can't get close to their 30-square-square house. With such a law, with this ineffectiveness of the authorities that are to judge and bring justice to the citizens, there is great fear and of the abuse of the provisions of this law. This abuse can be seen in the fact that, because of ineffectiveness, impunity and inability to exercise justice in the longer term before regular courts, those who cannot pay even the authority to represent them in a court procedure under pressure resort to a solution in this interrupted manner and to be denied their rights in full or in part. I don't think this law is an appropriate situation for our judiciary, a situation where we find ourselves as a people. Calling for some recommendations or directives (I see here that there is no express directive) and the practice of Slovenia or some other countries is not based on our time. The justice system needs to be regulated, because it's one of the three pillars on which the state and the people rest, and then we can move slowly, gradually, but very carefully, and with such laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11432	The word has a folk MP, Momir Markovic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11433	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I even move on to the Mediation Law, I must be here in front of you and in front of the Serbian public to make an impression. The fact is that the time for discussion is still incorrectly arranged, because, apart from the SRS parliamentary club, no other parliamentary club uses the time it belongs to the Rules of Procedure. The impression is that it is in the light of every law we have passed that we are approaching Europe. With this bill, we are approaching Europe, as of yesterday we were also approaching Europe. Since we've passed 100 and some laws lately, I'm afraid that in our approach to Europe, we don't get that far, so we miss Europe. So I ask you to tell your friends in Europe that when we rush towards them, they stop us from being with them. The law is contrary to the Law on litigation and the Labour Act. Norms must be in accordance with these laws. The procedure is not prescribed in an adequate manner, it is not known who is initiating the procedure, which are the rules of procedure. Point 6 — dignity for the conduct of proceedings, moral-political similarity shall be introduced. It is not precise when the mediator can be disabled. What's the personal interest of the mediator? What is it that, as a personal interest, will limit the mediator from being a mediator in one process at all. The costs exist and they are enormous and fall on the burden of parties in the dispute. Costs are legal fees, and everyone who's had a little bit of work with the court and lawyers knows what those tariffs are. Normally, the parties pay these costs, regardless of the results of the mediation. The law is impossible to apply in practice. We've already had, as an alternative to mediation, a peace council. I'm asking if the professional public has been consulted, because we recently had, at a large scientific gathering, 50 top names of legal thought. I've spoken to some of them, none of them have been consulted, unless you've consulted Drago Hiber, Gaš Knezevic or Stevan Liliæ to prescribe some law, because this law has been prescribed from somewhere, so I assume that Stevan Liliæ, since he's important, did this. Normally, he didn't do it out of love, maybe for a couple. In the end, I have to cut short so that the colleagues who come after me would have a few minutes to say, please Mr. Minister, since he knows that this law will be passed, you will have the majority to adopt, here's a chance to apply this law immediately in practice. This will save the reputation of your coalition and perhaps one political party that is with you in the coalition. Namely, Danica Draskovic has sued 13 MPs of this parliament, SPO MPs, four SCG MPs and one minister. I propose, Mr. Minister, as soon as this law enters, in accordance with Article 32, and I think that member determines when the law comes into force, to appoint a mediator and I propose immediately, given that Mr. Zoran Krasic has very well proved himself to be the liquidator of the Democratic Party, and this job brings an end, to choose him as mediator in this dispute.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11434	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11435	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has not submitted amendments to the proposal for a law on mediation, because we did not consider this law to be so important to us, given that it will not be required to apply to citizens and we believe that it will never in practice come to life. Of course, that doesn't mean we don't have any objections; it can be said, we even have a lot of objections to this law. Neither did those who proposed the law agree in their parliamentary groups, so some say that this law must be passed in order to fulfil international obligations, others from the same parliamentary groups say it is not, because, of course, the recommendations of the Council of Europe do not oblige anyone, and thus us. And the question is whether those foreign mentors of yours gave up the extradition, maybe, the general and said -- if you can't at least do it in a year, you bring the mediation bill, and we'll see it as some positive shift. There is a lot of inconsistencies in the text of this law: at the outset, when it is determined which disputes will apply this law, it is said that it can be applied for example. in criminal disputes (of course, it is meant to be disputed on private criminal charges), but it cannot be disputed with respect to the cancellation of the labour contract and the payment of minimum earnings. The question arises why this inconsistencies. It is then said in Article 4 that parties have equal rights in the process of intervention. They certainly can't have equal rights. The second attitude is good, where it is said that in the process of intervening the parties are equal. They are and should be, but the same rights certainly can't have. Then it is said that intermediaries must act independently. What does that mean, independent of whom, how independent? The next word says they act impartially. It's okay, but independent, it certainly doesn't and it's not a term to be used in law. Article 9 of the last view says the mediator can make a proposal for possible ways to resolve the dispute, but not a proposal for the solution itself. When considering that this should sometimes and in practice be brought to life, the question is how will this mediator determine, will he be obliged to give three or four solutions, and if he thinks that only one can be good, will he, in order to fulfill the form, have to say, give you one suggestion as I think it should be two or three more pro forms, just to fulfill this form. I guess it's normal for the middleman to just give the parties a proposal for a solution. If the parties could settle a dispute on their own, they would, of course, not go to court or have a need to intervene between them. The role of mediators should also be in finding some solution that both parties would accept in the dispute, which they themselves could not come to. Article 14 states that in the appeal procedure, the judge will report, on the proposal of the party and with their consent... So, legally, this is completely inaccurate, this is pleonasm. What does "on the proposal of the party and with their consent"? Is there anything that can be done on a party proposal without their consent? Of course he can't. When said – on a proposal from the parties, that is quite enough. This goes on to be legally completely unnecessary. It would be better if your laws were as short as possible, as concisely as possible, and they would cover everything they need to cover. I'm saying, we haven't proposed amendments, but there's a lot of inaccuracies and inaccuracies in the provisions of the law. Article 16 speaks of the power of this settlement: "If an agreement is not reached in the process of mediation due to disagreement on legal issues, the parties may reach written agreement on factual issues". This is for anyone who understands a little bit of the right completely pointless, because almost never the parties to the dispute dispute over legal issues. They always argue about facts. Once the facts are made indisputable, then law enforcement is just a formality. I really don't know what this could mean, in which cases it could even find some application of itself, because it's known that applying the right is what is exclusively the right of the court. The parties are here because they're arguing about some facts, whether something like this happened, whether or not law enforcement happened, you're going to have to admit, it's something that should be left to the court to do, and it certainly shouldn't find its place in this law. Then, in article 18, which refers to a mediator, general provisions, the mediator is said to be a third neutral person. What does a third neutral person mean, what does neutral mean? Can it be positive and negative and neutral? Could it be acidic and basic and neutral? Of course he can't. These are not expressions similar to those used in our legal order. I don't know if you've prescribed this under some laws, you've mentioned a lot of Hungarian laws, Slovenian laws, but you must always remember that when something is translated directly, you can't find your own application. So something that has meaning and a certain meaning in Hungarian, when translated directly into Serbian, cannot have the proper meaning with us. I hope that in the future, when you're not up until now, you'll take care of it. Furthermore, the list of intermediaries, Article 19, says that the President of the Court, or the elder of another body, appoints a mediator from the ranks of prominent experts, and now judges, lawyers and others, who meet the conditions for carrying out the mediation provided for by this law and enlists it in the list of intermediaries. There's an extremely large possibility of abuse here. What will certainly lead to the application of such provisions in practice is that we will have one closed circle of mediators, because the presidents of courts or elders of other bodies... And it's not predetermined what these organs can be, they can be various state bodies. Whether it's gonna be the prosecution, whether it's gonna be some community, what it's going to be, how much we're ever going to have an elder and all the organs that are going to be in a situation to name intermediaries, we don't really know. They will certainly choose those intermediaries between those people they know, in whom they trust, and it will certainly be one closed circle of intermediaries, a new caste will form. The next thing you know, the question is that if the judges accept this intermediate job as well, they will suffer the profession. You know how much we fought for when we passed these laws that are directly related to the work of the court, the Law on litigation and all these other procedural laws, the Law on Judges, the Law on Courts, how much we all advocated to increase the urgency of the judiciary, to speed up the proceedings. This way, the court will definitely suffer. Average judge, e.g. In the First Municipal Court, in the Second Municipal Court, there are also 300 cases in the litigation department. Although mainly hearings are scheduled for two to three months, when a verdict finally takes place, we all know very well that the verdicts are not made within 30 days, nor is that possible, because judges have a large number of cases, a large number of hearings, a large number of decisions must be made every month. If we put more pressure on them with mediation and mediation, certainly the judiciary will suffer even more, the proceedings will be delayed even longer, and you know that the new CAP has come into effect. This won't be possible in any way. Secondly, this is how you put judges, practically, in the position of lawyers. The judges will have their own hours in which they will do judicial work. The question is whether or not the intervention will take place within that working time, because if the President of the Court orders the judge to intervene, the question is whether it is part of his regular work, whether it will count on him in norms or not. The judge is known to make cases and decisions both during the weekend and afternoon. The question is when will they do it now, when will these people rest? It is ungrateful to put them in the position of lawyers, it is ungrateful that if someone makes 30 decisions and gets a salary of 30,000 dinars, that a conversation with the parties will be paid by the bar; and if it takes half an hour, then it will be paid, depending on the value of the dispute, seven, eight, ten or 20,000 dinars, and for its entire monthly work, 30,000 dinars should be paid. That's certainly not right. The conditions for intermediation, or conditions that intermediaries need to meet in order to be included in the list of intermediaries at all, say they should have high professional equipment. I would not agree with the arguments made by Mr. Gašo Knezevic that the lawyers are rigid, that they normally preserve the system and that they are not suitable for this. I think it's necessary for one who has to perform the mediation to have certain legal knowledge so that he can participate in the procedure, to know what he can do, what he can't do, what are the legal consequences of his legal actions, etc. When it's said that someone has to have a high level of expertise, that's pretty wide. It's enough that someone's done college, it doesn't matter if it's a machine, philosophical college. Without the intention of demeaning these people, you will allow lawyers to have a certain advantage in the field of mediation. The second condition is at least five years of working experience in dispute and conflict resolution procedures. It's also wide-ranging. If someone in his work organization was a member of a disciplinary body, does this mean that he has experience in engaging as a mediator and will that provide sufficient quality? I don't think so. Third, he passed a training program for the middleman. It's not defined who's going to run it, under any conditions, whether it's going to be charged, whether we're going to have some kind of license again. Fourth, it's on the list. Fifth, that he wasn't under investigation and wasn't convicted of deliberately committing a crime. There's nothing like this in our legal system so far, that it's different whether someone was convicted of a deliberate crime or a misdemeanor. Does that mean that if someone committed a double homicide out of the habit he could be a mediator? I don't think so. It's known how it's set up in all the laws where it determines who can work in state authorities, who can do this or that job. It's always said -- who's convicted of crimes harder than that, he can't work. There's no difference whether the crimes were committed on purpose or not. Sixth, he's worthy of mediating. No additional conditions are prescribed again. There's no telling who's going to evaluate it. There is also a great possibility of abuse. The next attitude says that an exceptional mediator can also be a person who does not meet all the requirements of point 1. 1 - 4. Practically, the second attitude fully derivates the first attitude, so we shouldn't have the first one, because you say it can be, but it doesn't have to be. So, if it does, it's good, if it doesn't, good again. He says, if he has special experience and knowledge from the area where mediation is conducted. I'm asking you who's going to decide if anyone has special experience and knowledge from a particular area and what does that even mean, who's going to determine it? As for this condition that it is not under investigation and that it is not convicted of a deliberate crime, the question arises whether such confirmation will only be sought when a person is listed as a mediator or for any mediation in which he is designated as a mediator will have to draw out a new confirmation that he is not convicted and that no investigation is conducted against him. Article 22 says, "The mediator must be excluded from the mediation procedure if he is a judge, arbitration or judges of the same parties in another dispute," and now - "he is either a person acting or acting in another procedure". You've put it so wide this way that you've turned it all off. Nor did they limit themselves to who it must be. So, any person who acted in any procedure. What procedure? Court, administrative, this one, that one? So this is how you rule out all judges. Practically, you rule out everyone, every face that's been involved in some procedure. I was exercising some of my rights, so I took part in the administrative procedure. This is completely pointless. The second attitude can remain, but the first attitude is pointless and should be deleted. Article 25 says the mediator is obliged to mediate in a neutral manner. What does that mean in the law - neutrally? This is not a legal term. In Article 26, where the rights of intermediaries are regulated, only four positions can be subject to the right of intermediaries. That's the attitude that says the middleman has the right to expenses. The first three attitudes are no rights at all. He says, "The middleman has the right to know the circumstances of the disputed relationship." The middleman can't be right. The middleman can only have a duty, and that should have been regulated in the previous member. I guess he has a duty to get to know the circumstances of the disputed relationship. What does that mean? He's right. How can he, if he doesn't get to know each other, intervene? She has a duty, it's not a right. "The parties are obliged to provide the mediator with the necessary information and their vision of the disputed relationship" -- that is also not the right of intermediaries, but also refers to their obligation. So this is the obligation of the party. Second of all, you can't force the party to do anything, because the intervention procedure is voluntary. They can withdraw at any moment. The third position says they are obliged to deliver evidence, etc. Like the previous attitude, it's completely pointless. Article 27: "The intermediary shall be responsible for the damage done to the parties by its illegal treatment of the general rules on liability for damages. "If you are already establishing a special law, if you are establishing an expert in a particular area, then I don't think it's enough to regulate his responsibility for illegal conduct according to the general rules on liability for damages. If he is already a prominent expert, if the state points to a foreign country to someone, then his responsibility would have to be more rigorously regulated. Then he would have to answer for unconscious, unprofessional work, etc., and not only according to the general rules of responsibility. All in all, ladies and gentlemen, I think this law is something that can exist in our legal system, but that it is definitely not what you represent and that it will not bring any improvement. This law will not speed up court proceedings because there is absolutely the freedom of the judges to refer the parties to peaceful solutions in the course of court proceedings. Mediation as a concept and as an institution, however you like, is not something new is right. For several years, mediation has been attempted, so all cases that are of a certain age, in a court of law for more than two years, which have not been resolved, are referred to as mediation; judges have been obliged to appoint special hearings for mediation, and then hire judges in retirement, who have been paid some fees, so that active judges who intervene in these cases are advised to examine it first, and then advise them to carry out the mediation. The result of all this was extremely weak. I think only a few percent of the disputes have been resolved this way. It's basically impossible, especially in longer-term disputes. I think it's quite likely that this law will experience a complete fiasco, because if someone who is expert in right, who knows the right well and who can apply it is not able to bring the parties to a common solution, how will someone who is a sufficiently prominent expert in a particular area do not have to have a college or anything else, or any legal knowledge. What's quite possible is that in this way people will be brought into various unpleasant situations. They'll waste their time this way, hoping to sort out their problems in a peaceful way. But if you want to pass a law like this, go ahead. The SRS parliamentary group will not vote for this. This should be completely different. We have nothing against this law, it could be passed, but we really think that in this form, as you have suggested, Serbian citizens will not be doing any good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11436	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Gašo Knezevic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Committee on Justice and Administration proposed that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The People's Messenger, Gašo Knezevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11437	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, it looks like the captain of your team has decided to make a replacement. Looks like we're at the end of the game, because he pulled the Justice Minister, brought here another minister who, truth be told, is a lawyer, which is an extenuating circumstance. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group -- Boris Tadic, has tabled four amendments. We have chosen around some questions to amend, with prior knowledge that the amendments will be rejected, because they represent segments of another concept. I was talking about this second concept this morning, and I have no intention of going back to it. I am informing the chairman and my fellow MPs that we will not discuss all the amendments, but I will now only bring it out in principle, because we have no intention of stealing time and representing ourselves in this way, we are trying to measure these issues. So now I'm just going to say a few words about these amendments of ours, and that's what we're going to end up discussing the amendments. The first amendment refers to the scope of the application of this law. Its goal is somehow to set a different counterweight for listing and exclusion and to introduce international interventions. Namely, the same as arbitration and mediation can be internal and international, and here there are two arbitrations, internal and international at the Chamber of Serbia. If you want to attract foreign partners, then you have to stress the fact that there is also international arbitration and that is why we put it in Article 1 to immediately be seen. Others of our amendments refer, above all, to the facts of the settlement. There are different experiences. What's not controversial is that some execution was given by a settlement agreement, and that's more than ours. Whether these are solutions, i.e. decisions already provided by an enforcement clause or by a para-state authority, such as a notary or something, to place its seal, that is another question and that depends on the country to the ground, but that is it. There's not a word here about these executive acts of agreement and we think it's a lack. And of course, there remains the greatest shortage, and that's just conjecturing arbitration, so too much state interference. I have now even heard from one MP that high expertise is being prepared, legal knowledge is needed because it is so in state authorities, but this is not a state body. Let's not play games, don't mix grandmothers and frogs. In the end, I would just say something, I am fully aware that Mr. Minister (who unfortunately is not there, but was enough) can look at all the levels of understanding that this law has caused, so from the level at which the reader is at this speaker whether he reads in Serbian or Chinese, and one and the other does not understand, to the level that is based on a quasi-legislative argument, which, for example, reads, and I have written only one quote: "the mediator cannot judge outside of material law". In this sentence it is true only – the mediator, nothing else is true. So it's also a misunderstanding that tends to be a legal misunderstanding, but it's also so wrong, because every misunderstanding is wrong. I'm just convinced of one thing, and Mr. Justice Minister, and I guess beyond that, so this community must be aware that we're getting another imitation of life with this. This isn't really anything. That's why I want to inform you that I am not, since someone from the radical party has said so, consulted in the adoption of this law and that these imputations are quite low in nature. I wasn't consulted, and I made that clear this morning when I said DS wouldn't vote for this bill. I don't think I'm a person who's prone to two personalities, to help make something happen, and then to vote against it, it's not in my nature. So, I repeat, I'm sorry, the idea is basically healthy, the realization is not good, it's the imitation of life and DS won't vote for this law. The DS will no longer report for its amendments, making it easier for this assembly to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11438	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gašo Knezevic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Committee on Justice and Administration proposed that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Krstin. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Kristin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11439	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to ask that I get my word for the amendment to article 17, which is right behind me, so I don't go out again. We at G17 plus have passed a law like this, and we don't think he's going to be the imitation of life. Just because we accepted it, we also submitted these two amendments to improve the text, so that it would carry out its purpose. Otherwise, we wouldn't have submitted amendments if we didn't think they had a purpose. So we think the law has a purpose, but it needs to be improved in these two amendments, and it's not a big intervention, but these two amendments are a necessary intervention. Article 17 has been amended, because it is a lack of law, according to us, where the mediator undertakes to apply certain provisions of certain procedural regulations. We think that no decision in any segment of the judicial system, and this is a judicial system, can be made beyond the provisions of material law. Therefore, even the intermediary who intervenes and needs to be an expert on any area where the intervention can't make a decision without respecting material law, and besides, the law itself does not allow the decision to remain in force unless the court strengthens it later. Therefore, if the intermediary did not respect material law, the decision would not receive the fact of a judicial verdict or judicial alignment and would not be enforceable. We therefore consider it necessary to intervene in Article 17, where the words "as well as the provisions of material-legal regulations" would be added. It's an intervention. The second intervention is to Article 13(2), which allows the period of intervention to be extended by a court or other body for justified reasons, therefore, without a limitation of the time limit to which the intervention can be extended. I'm just going to point out that we've passed the Law on a litigation procedure and that the largest number of amendments are exactly how we formulate and voted for them to make the litigation more effective. In this way, the process of intermediation practically goes counter to the intrinsicity of the Law on the Procedural Procedure, and the Law on the Procedural Procedure is the basis of this procedure and the transmission of the precedence of that law. So we can't one law speed up the process, and another law slow it down. That's why we suggested that the mediation process could take up to 30 days and that it couldn't be extended. Practically, erasure of attitude 2 excludes any possibility of extending any procedure. I'm just going to point out that attitude 2 is inconsistencies with the law as a whole, because the law doesn't stop deadlines of limitations, it doesn't stop transfusions, and if the court could, for unlimited time, extend the course of intervention, it would lead the parties in an inability to exercise their rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11440	Anyone else want a word? The word has a National MP, Slobodan Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11441	There is one illogicality here in Article 13 – to extend the process of intervention, either on a proposal from the mediator or on a proposal from the party. If the parties involved, who are interested, have no interest in extending the procedure, the intermediary cannot in any way request that the procedure be extended. That's one big illogicality. I hope that Mr. Minister respects that, that is, the Justice Minister's representative, because why would the mediator have the right to extend the procedure if the parties themselves oppose it. It's a great illogicality, and I think it's our duty to point that out, because it just shows how superficially this law is and how it hasn't responded to its purpose.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11442	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Krstin. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gašo Knezevic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Committee on Justice and Administration proposed that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gašo Knezevic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Committee on Justice and Administration proposed that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Tomic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Tomic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Since we have completed a search of the draft law in particular, does the representative of Proposer Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice, want to give the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Action Plan on Harmonization of the Economic Systems of the Member States of the National Community of Serbia and of the Black Gore for the Prevention and Administration of the Obstruction of the Free Flow of People, Slaves, Service and Capitals You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Authorised representatives are for the Serbian Renewal Movement Miodrag Stamenkovic and for the Socialist Party of Serbia, Jovan Todorovic, at this point, if there are discussions. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposal's representative, Dr Milan Parivodic, minister of economic relations with abroad, want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11443	Ladies and gentlemen, within the meaning of Article 72(1) point 4. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia proposes amendments to the Action Plan Act to harmonize Serbia-Montenegro's economic systems. In 2003, a Law on the Action Plan for the Harmonisation of Serbia-Montenegro Economic Systems was passed because this harmonisation was a necessary condition for our accession to the European Union. That was the condition they set out in the European Union. That's why the law was passed. However, the law largely remained a dead letter on paper because apparently the Montenegrin side did not want to harmonize the economic system with Serbia. This situation has created an objective inability to continue the process of approaching the European Union and, unfortunately, after a year of lost time, there has been a conclusion that there will be no harmonisation of Serbia-Montenegro's economic systems. The European Union also concluded at its meeting of the Mastricht Council of Ministers in October that there is no longer any point in waiting for Serbia-Montenegro's economic system to be harmonised and therefore adopted the principle of a double or double track with regard to trade and economy for Serbia-Montenegro. In that sense, representatives of the Serbian government, the Montenegrin government and the Council of Ministers agreed to amend the Action Plan and exactly the draft of these changes is ahead of you. In short, I'll explain to you what the deal has been reached, which is that customs rates cannot be matched. We should still take off customs rates, which is not in our best interest, so the harmonisation of customs rates is excluded from the Action Plan. Also, it is open to Serbia to enter international agreements on its own. Then, in terms of harmonisation, the Action Plan excluded the external trade regime for Serbia-Montenegro, so that we are able, based on this draft, to create ourselves an external trade regime that corresponds to Serbia. This is very important because of very different structures of Serbia-Montenegro's economy, and it is not normal to have a regime that is fully consistent with them when they practically have no industry at all. Finally, this draft law allows Serbia to join the World Trade Organisation independently, because in terms of the World Trade Organisation's statutes, those territories that have a independent trade and customs regime can be members, such as Hong Kong, in China, became a member of the World Trade Organisation. Also, these changes derivate the obligation to bring the tax system into line with Montenegro and thus unblock our EU accession path, which has been, unfortunately, blocked for over a year and a half. I suggest that the National Assembly adopt this law, and if there are any other questions, please ask me.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11444	Thank you. Do the board presidents want a word, the Finance Committee Radojko Obradovic? No, I don't. Thank you. Deputy Chairman of the Committee and Legislative Committee Milos Aligrudic, Chairman of the Committee? No, I don't. Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The Word has an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group Jovan Todorovic, and then Mr Vukic answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11445	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I know it is the end of working hours, or 18.00 hours, and I will seek to present in the shortest possible terms the SPS opinion on the proposed law on amendments to the Action Plan on the harmonisation of Serbia-Montenegro's economic systems. Unfortunately, and the minister said so, what the Socialists assumed in 2003 happened when we adopted a basic law on the plan for the harmonisation of the economic systems of the state of Serbia-Montenegro – that this simply will not work and that the state union of Serbia-Montenegro will not be able to ensure even the approximate harmonisation of two economic systems in two republics. There are many reasons for this, but starting with the principle that both member states of the state union are Serbia-Montenegro equal, however, in real life one of these members has proved more equal and it is quite clear that it is about Montenegro. The Montenegrin government has not accepted any possibility of agreeing with the Republic of Serbia, nor any possibility of real alignment between the two economic ones, by all means different systems. From the fact that we do not have a single monetary system, a single currency, today these amendments and additions to the law, we come to the conclusion that we have nothing in common when it comes to customs rates, the external trade regime, the tax system and the attitude towards the World Trade Organisation. These are four points that are of the rest of the section on the flow of goods, one chapter in the Harmonization Action Plan, very important or most important. My fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I would like to remind you at this point what remains in this chapter – the flow of goods. You will see that, in fact, it could have been abolished by these amendments and additions to the law, because so little affects real life, the alignment of two economic systems, that it's almost not necessary. In addition to the first two points relating to customs territory and customs proceedings, but I will say about this later, veterinary, sanitary and phytosanitary control remained, free trade agreements remained, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitutional Charter and remained relations with the European Union, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitutional Charter. Everything else is deleted, and what's left is either unnecessary or not so important or it's at the level of a principle that most likely won't be possible to implement, at least not at the same time. The European Union at the time of the adoption of the Belgrade Agreement, at the time of adoption of the Constitutional Charter and at the time of the adoption of the basic law, convinced us that we must, on one track in Europe, and we and Montenegro, that we cannot otherwise and that we will also suffer sanctions, etc. This particular Europe, as of October last year, through its Council of Ministers, says – no, you can no longer go together to Europe, on one track, you have to go in the same direction, but on two tracks. This is like a rotten tale of double standards, because "old fray" Europe cannot understand that there are some people here who think and point to problems in relations with the European Union, but who are not contentious in terms of whether Serbia should enter the European Union, but rather the question of when and how to enter that European Union. At the time of the adoption of the original Action Plan by that government, we listened to the forecasts of when we were going to join the European Union, and some optimists said it would be in 2007, and now from this government, at least from some of the people in that government, we are listening to the forecasts that it will be in 2012. On the other hand, we have an almost orchestrated and unanimous campaign of a group of political parties supported by the media to follow the sanctions of the United States, the European Union, to threaten us because we do not fully cooperate with so-called. The Hague tribunal, etc., that all this is at the expense of the Serb people and that we will hardly join the EU at any time unless we do exactly what we are asked to do. In doing so, those who talk about it do not hold back from bringing up the truth, starting with the fact that the United States did not impose sanctions on the Republic of Serbia, that is true, but only suspended aid of 10m euros, and that aid conditioned the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to hand over General Mladic, and not these other generals, until the European Union said in some indications - you must co-operate fully with the tribunal, so there is nothing from the European Union. A man must ask a logical question – what does the tribunal have to do with the economic system, with Serbia entering the EU, especially on two tracks, and how long will this take? What will happen when we deliver those four generals, then will the colonels come to order, and the colonels, and the majors, the officers to the corporal, and will we, in principle, command responsibility, deliver the mass of citizens, the Shormaz and many others who, behold, responded to the call of the country and participated in the defence of the freedom of the Serbian people? Of course I don't want to politicize that story, but I want to point out the absurdity of certain requirements that come from the EU, which some so-called here would. Democrats accept and even make them worse compared to the form in which they are said or in which there is a intention to pose such threats and to realise them. The story of sanctions tells us that we are actually giving the idea of the EU and the United States and that so-called. The Western world to impose sanctions on us right now. The story can most often be heard, unfortunately, by the President of the Republic, by our foreign minister and many other significant state officials, who seem to care that this country is getting worse for them or for them to be right someday. It also resembles that story when Serbia opened up the possibility of judging its citizens for any war crimes committed during wartime events in the former Yugoslavia. Then the DS came a story about how, behold, Croats will judge Serbs for crimes in Croatia, and the Bosnian state and courts in BiH will try Serbs for crimes in BiH, and then suddenly the story is heard from Croatia, as well as from some EU centres. This is an example of how we should not work in favour of our damages because we are currently in the political scene, in power or in government, there are other political options, and, behold, we are not present in that government. As far as the bill is concerned, I have a few more sentences to say regarding the effects of the possible adoption of such a law and its application. Of course the effects always have a negative or positive omen. The proposal said that the adoption of this bill would allow for the continuation of lagging behind in the European integration process and the continuation of negotiations with the EU on the development of a feasibility study and the conclusion of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union, as well as the accelerated approach to the World Trade Organisation, which is blocked at the moment. If you ask me honestly if these effects are positive, they are. As we get to them, we'll see about that. What will be the future policy of this government, especially in that part of the government's tariff decisions and the level of customs rates for certain products subject to this law? Are we going to give up some of the solutions that we've been forced to do for so-called. harmonising economic systems with the Republic of Montenegro, reducing customs rates for the largest number of products and thus allowing increased imports and de facto create an illusion among our citizens and importers that we are getting cheaper and cheaper from imports? In the past four years, we have created a terrible external trade deficit. Are we gonna change anything in that area? The minister says we won't. Thank God we won't, because in the meantime, from an average rate of 15% on imports, we took off to 7.5% and exposed our economy to such wind, which was simply impossible to endure without kneeling. (President: Excuse me, Mr. Todorovic, will you use the other 10 minutes? Here you go. ) We created such a hole in foreign trade that in 2007 and 2008, we have a very difficult time, I think almost impossible to fulfil all of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of economic credits, based on commitments undertaken, debt service, which have been created since 2000 and earlier years. It's going to be a very big problem, especially if you look at the structure of what we've imported. We imported the most widely used goods, and unfortunately, a large number of agricultural products. The case of bananas is quite present in our consciousness, that it should not be mentioned. They don't grow in Serbia and let's import them, we import what Serbia has in abundance, even apples, stable manure and some other products on which we pour out foreign exchanges. See the quantity or value of imported technology and equipment. You will see that it is very little present in the total imports, and without technology and equipment there is almost no real possibility of this domestic economy being able to export. If we don't have exports, then we have a growing problem with the international community, with ourselves, because we can't do what we do and what is economic policy for some long time. When we cannot export, then we are not competitive in the European Union and are not acceptable to the European Union. In the meantime, you're all witnesses, we've got the most famous so-called. Lizing companies, domestic, foreign, and most often foreign banks, which offer our citizens and businesses the most favourable conditions to take on a loan or to lease. If you look at what's really being bought on the lease, then you'll see that 90 percent of passengers and other cars are involved in that lease. There's no equipment, there's no technology, there's no important thing to start this economy. Furthermore, from today or from the day we adopt the law, when we look at what we have left in this Harmonization Action Plan, we'll also see a few things I don't have an answer for, and I hope the minister can talk about it competently, because I suppose you have information. Section 4 - The planned harmonisation measures, paragraph 30, reads: "In the area related to customs territory, the measures to improve the functioning of all established procedures will be implemented by 31 December 2004, in order to ensure the smooth flow of goods in transport." The question is whether it was done with that deadline - 31.12., but it is a much more important second position of that point that says: "The administrative customs line will be abolished with the end of the transitional periods defined by the Action Plan. Until that moment, control on the administrative customs line will be carried out only in a relationship and to the extent necessary for the control of the implementation of transitional arrangements." If you enter the text of the basic law and of this text that you have received here, as MPs, you will see that all these transitional deadlines are essentially past. Does this mean that from the moment we adopt the law, we will be obliged not to have a customs line on the border with Montenegro in fact? What will be the treatment of import products from Montenegro? Will this be classic customs, as is the case now, so what was once imported into Montenegro, when it crosses that imaginary border line with Montenegro, customs, administrative, once it has moved to Serbia, will be rediscovered, taxed, as follows by our regulations, or will it be some other regime? The third question I want to ask, for the sake of essence, concerns the principles on which the harmonisation of Serbia-Montenegro's economic systems rested. One of the key principles was liberal foreign trade policy and property protection. The protection of property, as a man who knows something about it, is not at all controversial and liberal foreign trade policy, to the extent that it has been in the past four years, and how controversial it is to me. Out of the need to adapt to the regulations and practices of the European Union, we need to enable imports of everything and everything, and I remind you that in this text that you have before you products coming from the European Union in some way, in my interpretation of these provisions, they have privileged treatment. Chapter 37, which also refers to the planned harmonisation measures, says point 2. "In relation to products that lead to origin from the European Union, Serbia-Montenegro will refrain from introducing new customs and duties with an equivalent effect or from increasing the existing level of customs duty or from introducing some other import restrictions." What does this mean? This means that we must do nothing that would potentially reduce the volume of imports from the European Union. We must not increase customs duties, although we would significantly increase revenue in our republican budget, de facto has accumulated this import product, thereby making life easier for the domestic economy, precisely in these branches. But in fact, we must not, by outside customs policy and by some economic measures, influence the fact that we should deter those who wish to import from the European Union and what we have here. What's produced in the European Union is better packed, it's supposed to have a higher quality, and in that case there's no sense of action - let's buy our own, because then in these conditions and restrictions, if they're so set up as I see them, though I see them a little pessimistic, it doesn't make any sense, but it's easier to import, until the last cent of our pillows, straws or our foreign exchange books is gone. We have absurd, otherwise we're a country of absurdity, that the pay deficit grows, the external trade deficit grows, foreign reserves are also growing. Exports are gone and then there's a clear question of where these foreign exchanges come from. There are only two real sources. It is one of our workers who is on temporary work abroad, who come to our country to spend it; the other is to take it out of our straws, replace it in business banks, which are now, as a rule, foreign capital and spend it to survive. When we spend it, we will ask ourselves what to do, because in the meantime we did not have adequate stimulation for exports and did not import equipment and technology that would allow the production of products that would be competitive on the European market. So, for me, it's a key question, that I don't torture all of you, and the Minister, I won't ask any more questions, but I'm just asking if we of these changes are really going to benefit and whether the government is going to be consistent with these measures, even if there are other pressures from the European Union in terms of -- do something else, go back to one track with Montenegro, because, well, now that's our understanding of things. To conclude, the Socialist Party of Serbia, by nature of things, because it is seemingly technical law, I was talking about the essence of voting for this law because we see this as better than it was. I must ask at least a question of moral responsibility for those who insisted and in this assembly explained that what we are now erasing was best for Serbia and for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11446	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Mr. Wolfie, and before that, Mr. Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11447	I'll just take a moment, since Mr. Todorovic mentioned me, of course, in a positive sense. I understand that and thank you for Mr. Todorovic's concern about my fate for participating in that last war when the NATO pact bombed Serbia. I just want to say that I am absolutely not concerned about the fate of all those who were in that part of the line of command responsibility, which you were talking about, because this government of the Republic of Serbia is working very well with The Hague tribunal and will certainly not come to this. Of course, thanks to the work of this government of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia-Montenegro will be an integral part of the European Union very soon. I am convinced that in this future European Parliament, in which both Serbia and Montenegro will be, and I will be an MP, a European Parliamentarian. Thank you for your concern.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11448	Thank you for your ambition. Mr. Wolfie, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11449	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, first of all, I don't know why there's no TV transmission, I don't understand what these games are more important than these important topics for the citizens of Serbia, but what to do. I hope this is an exception, Mr. President. I am convinced, without any sarcasm, that you have no intention of hiding from the public what is happening in this congregation. The reason for this law, which is cited behind the text of the law itself, is completely pointless. In addition to the wordings cited and the conclusion that the members of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro have agreed, we have no other information, above all because this agreement is due to the fact that the Constitutional Charter is not respected, that what you wrote and put together, and that we talked about being on fragile, glass feet, does not work. Now finally all the representatives of different political parties come here with some kind of separatist policy, to God, protecting Serbia's interests, so here the minister tells us at one point -- so many different economic systems, economic circumstances, the development between the two Member States within the state community, that it's good to go to the full separation of these systems, to get a place in the World Trade Organisation, etc. Is the same economic development of Belgrade, Levca, Stig, Black Grass or any other place in Serbia? It's not. Is that why we continue to share territory, is that why we continue to destroy the Constitutional Charter, because someone told us - you have one track, and after that we have two tracks, so you in the government kept quiet, you didn't inform us what your position was about, until we finally realized: of course, our position is that which you brought back to us, even though you didn't even ask us whether we agreed with that attitude or not. You're saying these achieve the protection of a special tax rate, special customs rates, we're going to protect our agricultural production. What are we going to do when they import a agricultural product at a customs rate of 7.5%, with us a customs rate of 15%, and they bring it to Kruševac without anything and they say -- here, we have much cheaper, unmatchedly more favourable goods than you have. We didn't do anything about it, except take another step towards breaking up the state community. This is a big political issue. I know this is someone's -- let's not talk, let's finish as soon as possible, and not worry too much. This is a big political issue. Part by part of the country is separated from us and nothing to anyone. Let's watch the game. Now the game is the most important, and this is going to go at three, four in the morning tonight. It doesn't matter, it's important to write, to stay in some papers, it doesn't have to go. I don't know if you've heard what some have been throwing. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] They said something that had something to do with what I was discussing and the time it broadcasts. But let's get back to the more serious subject. I understand when the time comes in the congregation, I am a long MP, when everyone gives in to concentration and then wants to talk in a different way. It's nothing weird, and I can't judge anyone about it. Now please, if you have patience, I won't last more than three or four minutes, so think about what movies you're going to watch and everything else. So, every day, we're threatened by further decommissioning of the territory. Few people care about anything, few people talk about anything serious. The only thing you do is when any minister shows up, when anyone comes to this country who's not a minister, secretary, assistant, deputy and something. All I have to ask you in the Assembly, can you for those who have been the main heds in the news these last days to give me one function of theirs, I guarantee 250 would not know about two or two of us. So, other than that, if we have a solution to some problem, except -- well, we've given up the common customs rate, of the common external trade regime, of the relationship to the World Trade Organisation, of the tax system, we've given up everything and everything, and the effects and acts are our model of the double track, which someone told us. Why has no one considered in this country how to exploit that some in our environment are in the EU or will soon be, and we are not; how to attract foreign capital and our working force that is cheaper, and our fiscal regulations that would be more favourable to them and more favourable, I would say, with an economic environment, full legal certainty. We can thus attract them and get much more than the EU countries at this point. Let someone think about it, let someone think about what to do today, and not just that -- someone came, so he told me. So let's not run politics, let's not have a Parliament, that we don't have a government, that we have nothing, that we tell the people that we don't have a state. Most of you, I listen to all the same things as the citizens of Serbia. First, the one who says: nothing new in the west and nothing new in Serbia, and he is the minister, the country's top official. It's only new to go with three planes, to get his butt to see the way and nothing, nothing at all. What was done for the country - nothing. We've had very fruitful conversations, what's-his-name is Dimitrij Rupel, a very fruitful conversation with him. He goes to Kosovo the next day, as he says, that he has not asked anyone from Serbia. It's literally the next day. He says the biggest economic aid. What economic aid? Does anyone keep you posted? Why don't you tell the people that in the Council of Europe they're all voting with the Shiptars? Why don't you tell the people that they're tearing down every act in the Council of Europe, every resolution they're voting against us? But most importantly, one minister hired his wife, another minister waiting to hire him I don't know who, whether a relative, a friend or anyone else, and the country fails, the country goes to ruin. You're bringing in someone who will politically support you somewhere, who, along with us, will worry about surviving our country, to survive our nation's community. That's nice. Now we're free of Montenegro. Mr. Parivodic, I don't know if you know, because you like to court B92, because you think it's the only part of Serbia, because you're very nice, and we're not, so let me ask you -- what's the difference between the Serbians from Pljevlja and the Serbians from Prijepolje? If you find me that difference, any difference, and I don't know if you know it, just overturning the apples separates them, the limit... (Minister Parivodić, from the post: Internal border. ) Mr Parivodic, this is our problem that Broz stands in the heads of those who represent themselves as the greatest Democrats in today's Serbia. We must do everything in our power, absolutely everything, to preserve the state community. That's where our people live. That we don't think about those who are for the common state or not. According to the latest list, with all the pressures of police Mil Djukanovic, the entire separatist regime, 32% of the people have declared themselves Serbs. I don't know if you understand. You don't understand. You don't care. So it will be without Montenegro and without Kosovo, it is only important to be a double track. I don't care about the double track, we have our country. I think someone in this country has to say that we're in a difficult situation, from a lot of angles. The international crisis group is bringing scandalous acts, criminal acts, there's a debate about KIM independence everywhere, and we -- let's finish it as soon as possible, so we don't watch the water polo game, and then we get a handball game. Since you've managed to destroy all of this, and there's nothing anyone can do about it, and then we're left with nothing from the state. The bottom line is who's going to get their hands on all this to have a little more business space, and nothing more. (President: Excuse me, Mr. Wolfie, would you like to use the other ten minutes? I'll be done in two minutes, I've got another ten minutes. I just want to tell you that the country is in a terrible crisis, that the government is doing nothing, standing there waiting for something to happen. We're caught in one situation, the other and the third. Something has to be done. We have a problem with Kosovo and Metohija. We have a problem with Montenegro. We have a problem with the worse economy in the country. No one's saying anything. You say, "Let's meet all their conditions, and after these conditions, the condition of Montenegro will come, and the condition of KIM will come, and there will be conditions forever and the economy will continue to fail." Make an economic environment that someone on the outside cares about investing in something. It's not true that there are obstacles. For example, the European Parliament's “Basics” company, one of the most famous European companies for construction entrepreneurship, sent me a letter (publicly I showed it to you) about the intentions, if I win, what they want to invest in, how much money, hundreds of millions of euros are at stake. Maybe it's not big money for you. I think it is for Serbia. I don't mean you personally, I didn't mean to offend you. So they will, but because they have their own bill, but do it to them, you're working on it. People live in misery and misery. There's no solution. Let's watch a water polo and handball game. For even further away from Montenegro, which we're a little bit separated, and if we haven't torn to the end, no one's worried. Half of the government is running a Separatism policy, half of the government is running a common state policy, no idea what the government's policy is. Let me ask one member of one parliamentary group, ask another member of the parliamentary group, they'll give me different answers. They're separatists, they're Unionists, they're federalists, and that's the kind of government we have. I think that these things have to change in Serbia and that we have to tell people and citizens what dangers lie ahead. We're not gonna be the ones who are gonna be the ones about the state, not this government, any government, ever make a problem. When the state is in crisis, in grave danger, we are not the ones who are going to stab the state in the back. That's what you know. That's what any other government knows, anytime. When we fall from power, the next day, the day after that, they know it. This is how we're gonna lose everything in the state. Nothing like this, you didn't shout and shit that you couldn't. It was -- we want to go to the elections; we've passed the law, we want to go to the elections. What about the election? Has anyone informed us about the February elections? Has anyone told us anything about it? When are these elections coming in February? It was prescribed by the highest legal act in this country - lex superior. Looks like he's got some bigger Lex superior. Is that Solana, the one you've been suing for not coming to Serbia for three days? Three days' news -- oh, man, what to do, didn't come, didn't show up. Who told us? Did his secretary contact us? What does that mean, what message did he want to send? The fact that you've trampled the legal order, nothing. I don't care what Javier Solana says when I have a sacred letter called the Constitution, the Constitutional Charter. If that's not what I'm saying, if you're going to say otherwise, then tell the citizens of Serbia - we don't have a country anymore, we'll set up a galuliter. We're going to organize circus shows that we're looking forward to when you tie up some Serb, then beat him, and then we'll say that you're our great liberator. To remind you of something, one man lies in prison because he was on TV that was bombed. Sue and mourn, as you call upon God down below, so that Solana may arrive at you as soon as possible, who directly killed those 16 people. I'm telling you how much legal order you have, nothing else. In addition to the fact that there is no legal certainty, that you do not know what is in force, what is not, you have a foreign minister who says dead, soldiers, do not join the army. Is that what you're going to jail for? Is this being prosecuted on official duty? I've learned from you, Mr. Parisian, that it's being prosecuted by official duty. Just nod my head, I won't say anything to the audience. Is this being prosecuted on official duty? (Minister Parivodić, from the place: It is a verbal delict. It's not a verbal delinquent, Mr. Parivodic, it's an invitation to destroy the constitutional order, to desertion, to destroy the army, to the armed forces of this country, it's a serious crime that the prosecutor must prosecute immediately. What kind of prosecutors do we have? We've got prosecutors chasing people because they've been giving bonuses to the workers from the staff account instead of spending it at the bar. The worst thieves and criminals don't go after them. They don't prosecute the foreign minister when he commits such a serious crime. Who are you going to chase? Why are you going after anyone? There are no laws in Serbia. There are no laws that are respected. That's what needs to be prevented, and you guys watch what you're gonna do. I'm waiting for the next time to be a triple track. The triple track is going to be - tear it up a little bit more, and then we're going to get four tracks. Four tracks will be - tear Serbia into four pieces. I hope we don't see that coming. I hope the rest of Serbia will understand in time what kind of danger is coming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-26-0.u11450	Thank you. Is there another authorised representative or does the president want a word? No, I don't. ) Since no word has been reported on the lists of parliamentary groups, before the initial search is concluded, do the minister want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since amendments have not been tabled on the proposal for this law before I conclude the search in particular, I ask if the representative of Proposer Milan Parivodic, Minister of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, wants to give the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We will continue Monday at 10.00 hours, according to Article 81(4), because we will not work tomorrow and the day after tomorrow to make up for it, we will continue with the sixth item of the agenda.
