ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14688	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the reason for the adoption of a law amending the Health Insurance Act is the need to create all together a legal basis for equalising the rights of insured persons, regardless of the years of life. It's about changing one single member of this law. As you know, years back in article 27. The Health Insurance Act said that an insured person up to 15 years of life could be granted exceptional treatment abroad, under the conditions laid down by the General Act of the Health Insurance Institute. We propose that this member now, and before the new health insurance law is passed, be amended and read: "A secure person can be granted exceptional treatment abroad, for the treatment of illness, condition or injury that cannot be successfully treated in the Republic of Serbia, and in a country in which a secure person is referred, there is a possibility for the successful treatment of this disease, condition or injury. Closer conditions, manner and procedure, as well as types of illness, condition or injury for which treatment can be authorised abroad, the Bureau prescribes. "It is that in practice, it is necessary that the criteria for making exceptions and making decisions to cover costs for treatment abroad are actually a medical indication without being an age limit. That is a very clear reason why I believe we will all be unanimous together and that this is an opportunity to reach a consensus of the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14689	We have one supplement, it's not a dispute that she's late. We have another authorised representative. Dr. Paja Momchilov is an authorised representative of the SRS for this point. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (The Health Committee and the Family Committee of Dr. Paja Momchilov, Chairman of the Legislative Committee Milos Aligrudic? No, thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 89(4) of the Treaty, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing, with the order of the MPs, submitted by the SPO-NS, DSS and SPS parliamentary groups. I give my word to the MP Vlad Vucicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14690	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are sure that Serbia needs a modern, good and quality law on public health. Of course, the government will prepare the law. But since there was discrimination in the old law that many young people mean life, which is that many patients who cannot find the cure in our country can find a cure perhaps in the neighbouring country, are unable to do so because of reduced resources and because of the limitations that are now in this current Health Protection Act, it is very important to amend the Health Protection Act and it is before us today, that because of all those people who cannot find the cure, and there is the possibility of extending their lives, they find the possibility of finding a cure in a neighbouring country and repairing their lives. What's important is that the Ministry of Health has found a solution and the strength to make changes to the law before the law is passed, which will eliminate discrimination that only patients up to 15 can be sent abroad for treatment, of course to enable people whose life means sending it, to find opportunities and to get to their recovery. Why is it important for this amendment to be passed today? Because so far there has been selectivity in treatment and this law corrects one injustice, which means life to someone. The doctors were in a very awkward situation, in an awkward situation like they had to be judges, and of course they wanted to be lawyers. They wanted patients to meet, to help them get better, and they had to be judges, because the law was kind of limiting them. They couldn't meet the patient, and, of course, Hippocrates' oath made them bound by it. We are witnessing a daily cry that through text messages, various media ads, they seek and pray for help from their loved ones. In all of this, of course, there is also the abuse of cry to meet and help certain patients. I believe that this law, which is now being considered and soon passed, is something that will in some way prevent such abuses, and it will also allow those who are powerless to help their loved ones to meet the states of Serbia, and that these people find opportunities for their recovery. Therefore, I do not believe that any MP in the Republic Assembly will discuss against this amendment to the law, that any MP will be against the adoption of this law, and this will mean a lot to many people who expect their lives to be extended, to be treated. I think that here in this law, in this amendment to the law that we're about to pass, there's one problem that the Ministry will surely face, and that's the problem of limited resources, and in some ways, regardless of the age of sending a patient abroad to be moved, the maltene unlimited, is going to live in practice again. Because I believe that doctors themselves will take care, if there are more such patients, and there are not enough resources in the Republic Fund – and I am sure that these funds are very small, regardless of the good wishes of the Ministry and of the good wishes of all those who have proposed this law and of us who will bring it, will not be able to meet all patients who need treatment outside Serbia's borders – that those younger people are sent and that they are allowed to extend their lives or find a cure beyond our country's borders. I believe that at the moment we pass the health care law, more resources will be allocated and that the possibility of treatment will be able to have all those who need it. New Serbia's MPs took this amendment to the law in a warm way, in the interest of all those people who need this help to vote for this law, and I believe they will do so in the Republic Assembly, and of course that was the opinion of the Health Committee. That is why I stress once again, with all due respect to all those people who expect this law to be passed, people whose lives depend on this law have the support of New Serbia's MPs, and hopefully all MPs in the Republic Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14691	We have a small problem, two late parliamentary groups with a speaker's application, G17 plus and the SRS. I pray that we have an understanding, since it was not possible to determine the order then, but rather, the order is determined on the basis of those groups that have submitted the list in due time, so I apologize to you. We will continue, of course, to accept both groups, but, please, we will continue on the list set by the parliamentary groups that have submitted in due time, and in the meantime we will make a order in the Rules of Procedure, yes and against. The word now has the People's MP Zoran Angelkovic, excuse me, the word has Dobrica Jankovic, and let MP Zoran Angelkovic be prepared. I'm asking the Professional Service to create a new schedule.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14692	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, brief and clear, unequivocal DS, of course, have nothing against such a bill on amending the law. The reasons are very clear. The intentions are good. If we were to talk about what we're here about, which is politics, we could talk a lot, but today I wouldn't abuse my presence on this subject, because I could say, not using some other figure in this sense, that this government of ours has enough in this mandate, so projects that are very good, I would say very well-intentioned, but there's a problem, and that's what we as an opposition are dealing with here, the question of the possibility that these projects that have been put into legal proposals, and also in the laws that have become so, because the majority of parliaments ensure that they are voted. We've been hinting here, talking about how there's only one problem, how to implement what's finally passed here as a law. Also, the question that we can ask about it here and because of how good this intention is and how necessary this project is; I repeat, the DS will vote to amend this law. I would just like to remind myself of this little problem, the position in the budget, the issue of limitations and at all resources, the material resources and the possibility of such a law being implemented. It is a question that raises other issues, and that is how to set priorities. And we have answers to that, but at this point they're not defined. I guess this is a problem for us, and then, I can say, and I am among those who are for when the problem arises, that immediately bravely and uncompromisingly, given the seriousness and weight of that problem, we enter into solving this problem. Let's make this more consistent, let's just let everyone get around it without a problem, without being purely naked political problems, easily agree and agree. Therefore, the Democratic Party will vote for this, but raises the question of what with the means to implement the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14693	The People's MP Zoran Angelkovic has the word, and let the MP Tomislav Nikolic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14694	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, disputed whether the SPS will support the need to create conditions for every citizen, regardless of age, to treat or better say that they create conditions that, if there are no conditions here, they can be treated abroad. But it's not a subject. The real issue, unless we create conditions that Serbian citizens can be treated here in the country, because if we are only making appropriate assumptions, and these assumptions cannot be used, regardless of what kind of consulate they were or something like that, then it will be a false picture of the rights that Serbian citizens have. The need for all of us and the obligation of the ministry, if we support one such legal project, is that as soon as we get one total reform of social and health insurance and human rights, what it says in the law can be used. If we now have a situation for people to heal, not to pay out of their pockets, because they don't have that money in their pockets, but to borrow, to take credit to treat, and we have a lot of such people, we receive dozens of such people daily, and that they have the right to collect in health insurance can't charge for months. Like what? If he has three therapy sessions, and it costs 300,000, for the last six months he's charged 30,000, and he has to wait another two years for the rest to be charged, which he borrowed from the neighbor or sold everything he has, he still has nothing to sell, then it's not worth the right that we're going to adopt today so that someone can be treated abroad when they can't be treated in Belgrade, Krusevec or Vranje. So we need to speak honestly here and find a form that will create for the citizens of Serbia the right to take advantage of what is written in the law. If we extend the law, which of course we agree on, and on the other hand we cannot use that right, then it is one false picture of health insurance in Serbia. The second question is whether our good doctors – and I am absolutely sure that Serbia has quality doctors, capable doctors, capable professors, who can be the most difficult health problems, not to say operations or anything else, to solve, and provided that they are technically qualified – have such apparatus, such technology that follows the trend. I heard about some machines that were purchased the other day, and you know it's the third generation of those used in Europe. And not to mention the cardiovascular apparatus, which is more quality in Valjevo than in Belgrade, and in Valjevo, two or three patients are examined within a week, in Belgrade daily, but still because of the donation, because someone has finished, there is that in Valjev, and there is no in Belgrade. If we don't arrange total health insurance, then our goodwill to support such legal projects, that citizens, whether they are 15 or 60 years old, can be treated abroad, will not come true. It will be one fog that will satisfy some group of individuals' initiative and some offices, and essentially it will not solve the problem and the citizen will not get that right. In that sense, we support this change, but we warn that it is not a "share lie" to collect cheap political points. And it's not some points, it's going to get boomerang, because it's not going to be achieved, not only that right but also the existing health insurance rights, basic health care, so that a man can be treated for what existing legal solutions provide him. Therefore, I ask you to know today that we are also taking advantage of this opportunity to find out whether in this sense something is envisaged in health and social security reform and whether these rights will be used. They can be exploited or it'll be just a right that doesn't matter to an ordinary man.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14695	The People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Rajko Baralic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14696	I don't know, Mr. Chairman, why you're interpreting the Rules of Procedure like this. I wish our representative of the parliamentary group had spoken before me and I don't see any restrictions on a representative of the parliamentary group getting a word whenever he asks for it. He is now changing the president of the parliamentary group and has the right to receive a word whenever he asks for it. It is unnatural for me to open a discussion on the agenda item for which we have a representative of the parliamentary group. So I would ask you to present the SRS within this point first with the representative of your parliamentary group and then the rest of us MPs will take the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14697	Mr Nikolic, I completely understand and I think your proposal is quite logical, but unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure literally states that this right of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group can only be used for the opening and final word. I'm really sorry. I think you're right about logic and good parliamentary work, but I'm really limited by the Rules of Procedure. There's no reason to be angry about it. Parliament Speaker Predrag Markovic called your representative. It really was. Please, Mr. Nikolic, take your word and proceed. He can end up using in the finale all 20 minutes. I'm sorry, that's what the Rules of Procedure says. Mr. Nikolic, you're the chairman of the Administrative Board, so start the amendment to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14698	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, we have before us a bill that, of course, essentially, by reading the strict provisions of the amended article 27, we wouldn't have to argue too much. I would have the right to argue with you who make up the congregation majority, and you did it in your previous term. I think of the majority that this law has already changed and has, in time, abolished the right for insurance companies over 15 years of age to be treated abroad in cases where their treatment in the country is impossible, and there are countries where treatment could be successful. I think this is a law that only adapts the existing law to the Constitution of Serbia and that your member, President of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, has pointed to that. He did not want to call a session of the Constitutional Court, to act on the performances that referred to discrimination against citizens, but he warned his party colleagues that they could even be promoted by giving an opportunity to a much greater number of citizens to heal than this has been the case so far. Who will be responsible for the fact that so far, citizens have not had the opportunity to be treated abroad for the cost of the state, when you claim that this is now in fact equalising all citizens in Serbia. Who's going to answer for what the citizens haven't been evened up to now? Who's going to be responsible for that number of kids over the age of 15? School kids, you say, in an explanation, students, who so far could not be treated abroad. Who will be responsible for young people, up to 20 years old, up to 30 or 40 years old, which so far could not be treated abroad. This can't be presented as human law, because it has to be said that he was previously inhuman, who suggested him, who brought him in, and how many people died because there was a law like this so far. A team before I believe that anything will change at all, Mr. Minister, if the funds remain at the same level as planned, because the youngest part of the population of up to 15 years was envisaged, the rights for that part of the population were envisaged and count on at least four fifths of Serbian citizens now being included in this right, and those citizens you have to assume as a doctor to be more prone to get sick than children up to 15 years old. If you would like to implement this law, if it is not spelled out rather than producing rights, then it takes a lot of funding in the budget, not saying no additional funds are needed. How come we are establishing a new right and not providing additional funding in the budget for a new right? It's not for five, ten users, but for eight million users we're establishing a new right. I wish it was written in an explanation, because it tells me that something doesn't fit. Of course, my remark that the law is now in line, but only in this part of the Constitution, is justified by the first attitude of your argument. You say there was a need to create a legal basis in equating the rights of insured persons, regardless of years of life, in a possible reference to treatment abroad. The Constitution did not allow such discrimination. By the Constitution, we all have the same rights and same obligations. And so far, according to the Constitution, every Serbian citizen had the right to be treated abroad. If there is such a provision in the law of one citizen, then there is for all. Then it's justified that we don't have the resources, and yet we're going to separate ourselves from treating the children, and now you're saying "absolutely we're going to access it, because we don't have enough resources". That "restrictive", the word "extremely", which appears in the bill, can worry and worry. Given that there are foreign analyses on corruption in health, on the non-intentional spending of health reform funds, involving the ministry, the minister and his political party, I do not believe at all that you have good intentions. You have no good intentions, but you have made this assembly the agenda of your political party. These others don't understand it, they don't understand it, days and months pass. We use it, of course, because we understand everything in politics, unlike some others. This law will not be able to present you as the only human party, as you have so far said, that you are the only party leading to Europe. If I were in the position of the ruling majority, I would choose the agenda of the National Assembly. On the agenda would be the most important problems, not the problems of a political party, which sees how to vote a 5% census for the next election. We are not talking about Kosovo and Metohija, we are not talking about floods that plague the country, huge material damage, we are not talking about anything that is important to the citizens of Serbia. We are talking about treatment abroad, and the question is whether we will have enough resources for this treatment and for children up to 15 years of age, which have so far been envisaged. I would like the minister, or any member of the government, or the Prime Minister, to meet the constitutional and business obligations once a year and report here on the work of the Government to the National Assembly. And who else, not to the press, not to their colleagues, not to the directors of the clinics, the polyclinics, the ambulances, are all from the G17 Plus list, and you are going to ask who will join to be the director – but to the MPs, the National Assembly to submit a report. Now I'm interested, in the context of the bill's explanation, how many children were treated abroad last year, what were the diseases, how much funds were spent? How am I supposed to believe that the Bureau will determine which disease and for which patient can be issued a treatment manual abroad? Why the Bureau? Where's the highest medical profession for which a patient goes abroad? Are all these university professors, who deal with these diseases, employed by the Bureau? Why should the Bureau prescribe? Then what are we? We bring in a two-story member and then we leave it to the agencies, the Institute, the ministers to prescribe the conditions unsupervised, and then these transcriptions are sometimes 50 times more extensive than the law itself and they enter into a matter that is not intended by law at all. I'd like to open a debate on the state of health today on this bill of law. Commend yourself to the state of health. Let us who are in opposition tell you what it looks like in those who are dissatisfied, not in the law, what can be written to look more beautiful than before, to introduce ourselves as a good authority. The congregation doesn't exist because of that. The congregation exists because it solves what life is, what's important, what's main, what we can't do without. We hear 250 on TV that the state summit has brought Kosovo and Metohija into line. Does any of you 249, with me 250, know what those attitudes look like? Have you been consulted, asked, informed? No, they're not. You hear on TV, as I do, that the state summit has unique views on the fate of Kosovo and Metohija. Where are the attitudes of the National Assembly? Where is the fulfillment of the views of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? I wish we'd opened up a health hearing, but, well, there are more pointless agenda points. This session will last. From now on, we will prove to you every day that an 82-member parliamentary group cannot be in opposition. You can't have three or four MPs to decide what the fate of the country will look like. From now on, it will go differently. You may be bored, but we're bored too, you're bored with the people, so we'll either go to the big day, to the elections, or this will last. And this is kind of a moon. I am not ashamed of the citizens of Serbia. When there is no discussion of what is important in the assembly, let's see what the debate on which all Serbian radicals will participate looks like. 'It is an unimaginable situation for you to declare on TV, individual ministers, that there will be no choice because you would win the SRS. I am convinced that the election will be much faster than you expect. I hope, as well as the citizens of Serbia, that these elections will be as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14699	Replica, MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic, as an authorised representative of the G17 Plus party.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14700	This is a replica of the party. I want to make it clear right away that the incorrect and the tenorous allegations will not be tolerated even during this debate. First of all, it refers to the fact that most of Serbia's health institutions have directors who are from G17 plus and that G17 plus is carrying out some kind of control in those areas where there are ministers who originate from this party. So once again, I'm going to point out that it's completely incorrect. G17 plus, as a responsible party and a party that received citizens' confidence in the elections, took responsibility in certain areas. We stand behind our ministers doing great. The debate can be held, we can have this opportunity to discuss how the health system in Serbia works. I would clearly like to tell you, therefore, that we are dealing with figures, not insinuations -- of 290 health institutions in Serbia, over the past year all sixty directors of these health institutions have been replaced, and of those sixty G17 plus maybe 20 of them. The figures speak very clearly, and all other insinuations about the godmothers, aunts, aunts and others I would ask you to keep for some culinary stories or when you sit with friends in some relaxed atmospheres. Today we are here to talk about the law, to talk about one change of one point, one law, and the change that brings well-being to all citizens of Serbia. I'd like to ask you to focus on that. Of course, I'm prepared to continue to discuss this amendment and this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14701	The People's Messenger Rajko Baralić has the word, and let Paja Momchilov be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14702	Mr. President and Vice President, I don't know exactly who's in charge, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, but I am taking the opportunity for those who sincerely wanted to celebrate the Day of Victory over Fascism to congratulate that great holiday. As for what's going on here today, I'd like to ask that, with all due respect and great understanding for those whose amendments and addition to this law are on the agenda, let's talk about this seriously. There is only one difference between sick and healthy people. A long time ago, those who are healthy have problems, and those who are sick have only one and want to be cured. This "little" that could mean a lot to them or anything, is important both as a degree of our understanding and as a way of supporting us. The amendment and addition of this law is, above all, hope. Hope for those who do not know whether they will be given a new morning, or for those who do not know what a new morning will look like to them, for their families, which make up superhuman, superhuman efforts to provide basic conditions, to ensure human dignity, to feel better in grave diseases, states or injuries, as far as possible, those who are loved and loved most. I think that, don't mind me, it's not the time that we're politicizing this issue in any way. One definition, and I think it's article 27, it's a little vague and I'm just asking Mr. Minister to clarify that. It says: persons over the age of 15 gain the right if there are no conditions in the country for the successful treatment of diseases, conditions and injuries. What does "successful treatment" mean? Does a successful treatment, Mr. Minister, involve healing? If that's how it's understood, then we have a big problem, because, unfortunately, a huge number of diseases are where healing can't be provided with any medication, means, care or attention at this point. So it's important that we know exactly what this is about, so that we don't give this hope, which I'm talking about here, falsely, to someone who has a big problem and who can't objectively be cured, because, unfortunately, the kind of injury or condition of that kind is dangerous. Is there or is there no means? The funds are never enough, but I expect changes to the basic law, reorganisation and other ways to ensure that what we're talking about here have enough money. Because let me guess, I guess it's more important that someone with a sick child gets the right to be treated abroad for the cost of the state than 100,000 people get the right to a two dinar vaccine, 20 dinars or 200 dinars. We have to call everything our real name and say what's the priority here. (The President reminds us of the order by ringing the bell. ) I'm sorry that MPs are larrying while this topic is on the agenda, but that's not my problem. I also want to point out one detail. These days we had a chance to follow the fate of a little girl. His name is Kobas. I'm sorry I don't know the girl's name. It is the only of 12 surviving children from the Banja Luka maternity center, in difficult years, when due to UN sanctions, the large, human, democratic world did not allow planes from Belgrade's airport to fly and bring oxygen to the Banja Luka maternity resort. It took days of procedures to get a visa for America. There are huge financial and other problems. I suppose that child, this girl today, has earned so much that those who have given such a sanction receive with them and heal at their expense. It was important for me to say it, just to understand what kind of world we live in, what the world is surrounding us and what they're willing to do, to do to us what they think we should be, and that when they face the real consequences of their policy, they do nothing, or almost nothing, to help those who have made them unhappy. This country and this people should do everything they can to have financial resources to treat those and others who have problems like this. It is good to say that the amendment of the law is announced on the next day of adoption. It's supposed to be published yesterday, 100 years ago, if that's possible, because of those who have these problems. Without any dilemma, without any calculations, and without any thought of any kind, I will vote for this, because I know that this is one of those things that provides those who are in a hopeless situation at least this hope that I'm talking about, and I would ask you, Mr. Minister, to just explain this, it's very important that we don't give a broad right, that people don't do it afterwards in various courts and in other ways. It's important that we know exactly. As far as this dilemma is concerned -- why don't the Institute, I don't pollute with anyone, I just want to say that whoever finances must have mechanisms -- how it provides rights, he hires experts, and I have the best possible opinion on Serbia's health care, about his professionals working there, about the experiences they have and about their ethics. I also want to say that, and I would be happy to step up with anyone who claims that this profession is corrupt, that a doctor's office cannot be entered without a dinar, and that in any way I cannot solve the problems that are prescribed and that are in line with the Hippocratic oath. Sometimes in Serbia, the word "associates" is lightly drawn, unaware of the consequences that such sayings have for all of us. I'm done. I've spoken here several times - the doctor's place is like a church, crushed, with great hope. This communication between a doctor and a patient is the most honest, the most intimate possible, and that is why it is our duty to ensure the conditions for this profession to perform its work uninterruptedly, not to label them every day, not to make monsters out of them, because we are taking our children, our parents, and we are treating ourselves. And those, of course, there are always those who are wrong about their profession, about medical ethics and other principles, we should sanction them in a way that is sanctioned and everyone else in other professions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14703	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Paja Momchilov, has the word, and let Miroljub Maric be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14704	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, under the circumstances, I was not allowed to speak here as an authorised representative of the group, and possibly by our mistake. When the President of the Assembly asked me if I wanted to report to the Committee, I said no. Therefore, I did not declare myself here whether I wanted to give the opening statement as an authorised representative of the SRS, but as chairman of the Health and Family Committee. Today we have another one in a series of cosmetic-propaganda laws to discuss. It is probably dictated by daily needs and, in my opinion, represents the small legislative capacity of our Ministry of Health. To go out with one law of two or three members, it certainly isn't hard, anyone can do it and it doesn't take much effort. So, to be clear, the SRS have nothing in principle against the proposed measures, but they remain our dilemmas. We have a whole series of dilemmas that we're going to show here today, and then we're going to try to document these dilemmas with numbers; we're going to try not to mention, or to the least possible extent, names. First, we wonder why this haste now and that this law has been passed this hasty. On the Serbian government's website of May 13th, says Health Minister Tomica Milosavljevic, announced today that a public debate on the health insurance bill will begin in May, which will clearly define citizens' rights to health care. So we have a law announced, a system law that we've been waiting for since 2000, here's the fifth year, and we can't see what that law will look like. Now, as a predecessor, we only bring one small amendment to the previous law. Why, if in a month we have a debate about the system law, where everything will be clearly shown. We are wondering, however, that there is no pressure from a political lobby or some social establishment in Serbia to send relatives abroad for treatment and that this law, by destroying this barrier, should make it possible. I'm not saying that's true, but that's the possibility that we have in our heads. Another thing, not to open one channel to eventually launder money in the future. She's known for her "Medina" affair and what she wore and dragged with her. Why are we worried and afraid things aren't completely clean here? First, because the bill itself says - insured persons can be extremely approved. So, extremely, you can't all. You do not give universal right to treat everyone unless there is a cure in Serbia. The law itself says extraordinary. He's already setting up a barrier. Closer terms, he says, are prescribed by the Health Insurance Office to approve the costs. It is an institution where chaos and lawlessness are ruled, which in the coming minutes we will prove to the written documents of this assembly and this Parliament. We don't think it's the most suitable thing for him to decide on such an important and important thing, who will be extremely able to be treated abroad. Furthermore, the law enters into force the next day after its publication in "The Official Messenger". I'm telling you there's no rulebook in this office or there's an illegal, which is held in a drawer that's not legally brought in. How can the law be applied tomorrow if the rule that needs to come out of this law isn't passed. Then, an explanation, noted and respected colleagues from other parties, that financial resources were provided and then said 57m dinars were provided for this year in the budget, which will say 712,000 euros. During the past year, 52 children were treated abroad for up to 15 years, mostly from severe malignancies, and for these purposes, this money was spent here. There are no more budgets or dinars, and now you know which IMF pressure we are suffering from cutting public spending. You know the situation we're in, and now all of a sudden it's said the funds are secure. The funds are absolutely not provided. If this adds to the information that for 52 children of Italian health institutions they did not want to take a dinar for treatment, and considering it as a humanitarian act and part, then the picture here is quite clear. And if the story wasn't empty, proof is enough if you watched the show at Study B 92, where the distinguished minister participated together with the representatives of the office's fund to help the citizens of President Tadic and our state, where the unfortunate father of an unhappy girl participated. You've seen and you know that there's a fund for treatment abroad for children with severe diseases, and there's no money in that fund. It's reality and it's facts. That's where our suspicions come from. I said the Republic Health Insurance Institute is an institution in which there is a lack of respect for the law. Let's prove it. First, many new people were admitted there without systematicization and certain qualifications. The question is how many new ones have been received since the arrival of the new director and to answer that question. Second, unprofessional and unskilled persons are in the management posts. Who's the head of the Department of Public Procurement? Does he have college supplies? Does he have three years of experience? I don't want to know the name of a man. I don't want to mention it. It's not his fault he found himself in a place like that. The shift of executives in branches in Belgrade, Nis, Pirota, Leskovac. What kind of connections are the head of the Nis branch with one of the ministers in the government? Verified and experienced experts resign from this office. Whoever resigned from the Serbian government, I will mention the name, Rada Lukovic, deputy director of the Institute. For what? For breaking the law. Who further resigned from the fund's post in the recent period, Prof. Dr. Branislava Miljkovic and Mr. Gordana Simic's pharmacy as a member of the pharmacovigilance commission since 21 February 2005. I keep all the papers here. Anyone who suspects it's not true, I'll show him this paper. All I'm saying is, it's all covered in paperwork, and nothing here is true. Why did they resign? Making a list of medicines since 27 December 2004 is a reason. The list was brought in an illegal manner, as it was only available to board members at the sitting itself, and was voted with a majority of 12 votes of 21 members present. The list wasn't on the pharmacovigilance committee. The Commission for Pharmacoeconomics, which was established in the Bureau, on the constitutional amendment of 18 June 2002, Article 32b, correctly states and precisely, states that the medicinal product must be made mandatory by this Commission in order to be on the list. The commission doesn't work at all, and it's scandalous, and these two people have just resigned because the commission has neither its own rules nor its own, and it is required under the law to give the final word when the drugs are put on the list. I don't want to talk about a previous list that's put together in a completely illegal way, so let's just leave it alone. It is the institution that will prescribe and decide such important things in the treatment of our citizens abroad. What we're trying to say is, when laws like this are on the agenda, why are laws like this being passed? What's the reason? We absolutely think it's the weak legislative capacity of our Ministry of Health. If you're looking at laws adopted so far, and we had the Act on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices in October 2004, the article in the "Telegraph" daily, here it is, talking about illegal drugs and medicines that only the ministry had to intervene and withdraw from the market. So, on the drug market today, we have one mess. No one's satisfied. They are not satisfied with foreign representatives, they are not domestic representatives. The market is flooded with illegal drugs, and the press is already writing, and the agency itself that we set up here and what financial problems it has today, and I don't know if they've paid their last personal income. I wonder if they've been provided with the means to work normally, to survive. Can a citizen at the drugstore today buy a cure, an antibiotic? In which country of Europe today is it possible to get out of the money alarms and get an antibiotic for money? What's the deal with this law of ours that we've passed? As the finale of this chaos, take only General Stankovic's statement at Study B, when he said that the pharmaceutical mafia threatened his life and that's why he was demissioning it. And everything is fine with us, I agree with the other parliamentary groups' position to say it's okay, that we don't need to open these discussions, but I think someone still has to open these discussions. When it comes to the system laws we've been waiting for for years, what's the situation? It's a bad situation. The Social Medicine section of the Serbian Doctor's Society, which is very relevant and competent to discuss this, has made it clear that the law absolutely does not respond, I will not quote a brief conclusion, that it should be returned and that the profession must be consulted. This law is, to our shame, prescribed by Croatian law. Literally rewritten members. Unseen shame. Earlier in this country, while Yugoslavia was common, we were ahead of the legislative work in health; in 1978, the concept of Serbian healthcare won, and in Alma Ata, our concept was presented as an example of a good organisation of health services, and we defended it there. Croatian didn't pass. I'm not saying that the Croatian law may be bad and I don't want to go into Croatian law at all, but it must not be prescribed that way. Then rewrite everything, because you have suppressed and what is in that law is good for some of your interpretations. But it's not a subject right now, but I just want to prove why you're bringing such tiny little laws. You don't have the strength and capacity to bring those basic fundamental laws, which you've already had to pass. Also, I won't read to you at all, I know that the minister will be angry when I read the opinion of the Serbian Medical Society in Vojvodina, which has resolutely rejected the draft laws and said he won't discuss them at all, will not enter into those interpretations at all. We have one interesting thing. Our minister, we heard recently, was on the site again, he was angry with the carrying out of some untruths allegedly and announced lawsuits. That's a very interesting thing. This has not happened so far that the health minister has sued his colleagues and sued the press. But, well, he's right probably, especially if it's true that he's defamation. But there's one other thing I'd like to say now, a few words that are very important. The management capacity of our health ministry is very problematic. We have heard that 80 million grants have been sent to this country by the European Community and we have heard that 50m euros have already been hired by loans, and 174m euros have been announced to be taken. If we are saying that we are a society in transition, we need reforms. I feel free to say that, when it comes to reforms, in the health sector, we tap and that nothing has been done. The most recent example is the private sector, which is completely out of the system and is inequitable, which is not regulated at all by European models. There is no indication that it wants to be arranged according to the European model and by most European countries. The mechanism of achieving and the influence of political parties on legislative action is very interesting when you look at projects in health care. You have the G17 Plus Institute, which took part in how many projects we don't know, we don't know how many projects he's got, and we don't know what the solutions are. We have been praying from this pay phone to see the blood transfusion project, where Sofreko participates, but we want to see an open project, see participants, names, budget, specification. Not to read in the newspaper then that seven times more equipment was obtained for three centres in Serbia and that we were in doubt. Open it nicely, as we ask you to open the project Assessment of heat services in Serbia in 2001, which was worth 200,000 euros. Let's see what you wrote here, who was doing what solutions. I agree that you have the right to sue if you are slandered. It is that democratic society rests on it, on responsibility for the spoken word, but it rests in public. You called it transparency. That's what you were saying. We couldn't live. Come on, show transparency, open up all the projects that were made under your cap, but in the right way, where you see specifications, solutions. You don't have to see the evaluation, that's what life will show itself. One message for strangers from this place. We know there's a lot of fire and noise here, and then a man gets the impression when he says something, it goes into someone's ear, and then comes out the other side. But we can see it echoes terribly, but it echoes abroad. Open all projects involving institutions from European countries and foreign experts. There is a suspicion that the lion's share of the funds went back to Europe, that it would not be according to our national "what the godfather brought, with the experts carried". People bid on sums. I don't want to believe any of this is true, but please, open up, say, we've paid the experts this much, they've taken this much, we've paid our domestic experts, Peri Petrovic so much, Marisavljevic so much, so much, I'm pounding. So open it. That's what we ask foreigners for both you and us, because there is a strong doubt that the funds are not spent in the right way, and the intention is absolutely good and we believe human. Let's have an xenophobic claim to make here from this pay phone, that's what radicals look like to us. I claim that domestic experts, which we have and which are not used today, are better than those used in some experts. To name it, I said no names, Olav Esby, there is nothing to look for besides one UN expert, now a living Micovic, besides one living expert, Professor Jakovljevic, a lifelong expert, whom you have declared JUL's expert, who was the bearer of the DOS list in the first election before 2000, who was your first president of the Health Committee or what was already called the DOS institution. You've declared them JULs, you've defamed them, and then you don't use their services. Let me tell you, this Professor Jakovljevic wrote a legal regulation for the Republic of Serbia and Europe has no single objection, and we are struggling and struggling with system laws, we are looking at labor here and we do not know what the outcome of that birth will be. I'm not even talking about primary protection. I have to say, the facility is of national importance, Torlak, what was done with Torlak, with the vaccines, why wasn't that centrifuges that worked for over a decade and that was in such a miserable state? If it was done, we'd be exporting vaccines, thanks to good vaccines. And even though we don't meet the conditions, we have good manufacturing practices. We are told: you have a major deficit – export. It's not done. Here in the pocket is, this is the topic, and this is the topic, this is the vaccine against the rabbis, made by a man here in this country who cannot be produced in this country. High-end vaccine, and foreign imports and hard money are paid. There's also a topic about how much it stands out for the anti-rabic vaccine, if anyone's interested. We have to export, someone who does something goes this way, he gets eliminated, he gets defamed, and then we import as much as we import drugs. There's something about human policy. The distinguished representative came out, so she said, it's only 260, so it's only 60; my colleague, it's 20%, it's a revolution. When something that's sensitive you can laugh, I mean the health system, and he's resting on knowledge and experience, I'm talking about surgical branches, and they all involve themselves, when you're making these pre-tumbations, then it's a revolution in the system. But there's no telling what happened before that. You're not saying that they've been changed by three sets in the management centers, our big ones. There are extremities from G17 plus, you want some name specifically, then here's the spa, it's the Kursumliska Bana, where you hold an absolute of rights for the director outside the law, which works wonders. You want another name, you want Cachak, as much as he studied an esteemed colleague in Chačka, and we know what was in Cačka, and then he submitted the gynecologist's conconsequences for organization, sterilization, this and that. We know who we're working with, what we're working with, what we're struggling with and how we're fighting infection. The infection is present in our institutions, everywhere in the world it's present and it's normal. We have a little more and that's our trouble, and then pay the price in Chačka someone who's not the most responsible for all of it. We don't want to talk about it. Many of the directors appointed in this way are proudly acting, various articles are being dragged through the press, letters are being written to the Prime Minister, the minister, they are being written, here is that director at the Institute for Pulmonary Diseases in Belgrade, he is a constant theme of many media, he has been for months. That's what's bothering and what's wrong and what's the worst that shouldn't be. Speaking of G17 plus, I'll show you the letter, on the municipal board in Kursumlia, there's a debate on human health policy, but it's illegal. It can't be on the municipal level, and we have a letter sent to the minister, there's a minister, he knows who wrote it, and it says that on the municipal board they're discussing who's going to be director of a health institution. Please, what does that mean? On October 5th, DOS introduced a political membership in the appointment of a director in health, not so quickly at the first moment, in the second wave he did so, but what is now done, this is an unauthorized role of political parties and politics in the creation of human resources policy itself. So we can also read it if we need it. What's there? There's something called that some executives, not all of them, have become the Praetorian Guard of our minister, who defends him and his attitudes, and claim that everything he does is fine, and we know it, but so be it. Someone mentioned corruption. Corruption is a taboo topic for all of us, and I mean debate, and when it comes to the government and the situation itself in our country. We know there's a big one, it's a tender one, and we know there's a tiny one that's embedded in the system, the foreigners tell us. Evidence, don't say, that's what the radicals said, don't let the marginal groups say, I mean those who aren't satisfied. Now I'm going to list the evidence for it, and then you're going to argue. "Transaprents International" – of 133 countries, we are by corruption in 103rd place, of course, from behind. "Country Procurement Assessment", World Bank, Health – epicenter of corruption in Serbia, so, World Bank, I named which document. "Marten Board International" – citizens put health care first when it comes to corruption. This is where you all went out astoundingly and talked about the feasibility studio. In point 1.1, called Democracy and the rule of law, preliminary discussions, international research shows that there is a high level of corruption in Serbia-Montenegro, thus fighting organised crime and corruption poses key challenges for Serbia-Montenegro. One colleague said we shouldn't be politicizing things, but this isn't politicizing, and I'm saying it is, so we're politicians. What you're saying is that politics is a dirty thing; no, I think we're politicians, we need to politicize things, and we especially need to bring up problems. These are all the institutions you swear on. There are no Serbian radicals here, no quotes, no sheets, answer this, this is no problem for you. What is the finale, the International Federation, the League of Human Rights, in document 416, in April 2005, says discrimination, corruption and failures in the health system. Well, then, human rights of the poor, Roma, refugees and displaced persons are being violated; how many poor are here, Mrs Plassic will probably be able to tell us, since she is the chairman of that committee. Which is the segment of our society, which today, according to the experts on the side, violates the rights. I've read it, but the minister has challenged this report, says it's foreigners, so let's see who these strangers are. These are two lecturers from Sorbonne, Boris Nayman, who was born in Belgrade, who prayed three times for the minister to receive him when he was doing a study he did for a year, and you'll get all these denials and you'll see, unfortunately, our press will write and write the one you call - the yellow print. So, this study, you can challenge it, you can say it's not right, it was presented on the UN Committee in Geneva for Human Rights a few days ago, but we'll hear what the law will be, what the conclusions will be. Serbia-Montenegro's government gave its report. This counter-report on 32 pages speaks clearly and even lists examples, here's our colleague doesn't know, but he knows Naiman, and this other Hubert, he doesn't know his name, they know, they amount. You know how they came to know, they were here for 10 days, they were doing an interview, and they lined up all the institutions they took the data from, and the names and faces that gave the statements. If you read carefully you will not find any radicals here, you will not find any from the marginal group, dentist, privates who rebel against the minister. These are the people who are from the system, the direct bearers of this policy, even the assistant or advisor, I don't know what it is right now, our colleague Simic, there are three ministerial assistants, who also made statements. And what the banal examples of my profession are, it's a little tasteless for me, that's not what I'm gonna do. It is true that the Praetorian Guard, therefore, today's directors in a strange way government in this country of Serbia, in health care, are making large teams of management, directors, five of them for something that one director, with one assistant, has to do today, five of them, but rarely, they are very engaged and in private practice. So, I mean our climates and beyond our borders. It is a system that now exists and which the international community calls the country's corruption generator. That's what we Serbian radicals put as a problem, you can also condemn us to politicize the matter, call it that, but we're saying it's not good. It's not good because there's no corruption when you look at the whole of health care workers, which is most of the honest people who burn and who don't know how to end up putting together, with this kind of inflation and with this kind of income. From this place I want to appeal, we, the SRS MPs, ask you to raise your wages to doctors as the first measure of fighting corruption in this country, not to say there is no money. Judges can't have a thousand, not because we say they didn't deserve it or shouldn't have it, and doctors, doing one of the most responsible jobs, have 200 or 300. If they have 200-300, they're forced to take your corruption routes. Pay up to the doctors, find out. Raise your budget. So now that I'm only representing doctors, all healthcare professionals, they're all martyrs who've been through a miracle for 10 years. And then some of them went this way through corruption and then the foreigners wrote things like this that we can't allow. We must defend profession and profession. You had to answer and raise your voice that it wasn't true, that it wasn't systematic, that you took 1,000 euros for one birth, that one minority in this country was doing it. You, Minister, not challenge that report here in one way. Health indicators in this country have not existed since 2005. There are no trends. There's only one study, it's the one we all know. We are faced today often with the edicts of people in the regime to say that everything was bad before when they were socialists and, of course, we were radicals, everything was ruined and here are the rescuers who came to save the health care system today. That's not true at all. It wasn't all bad before, we had a good health profession and that's what needs to be said. Come out with indicators, health indicators in the last four years. Where did you go with the indicators to see. Mortality is the largest of cardiovascular diseases in Serbia, even in the world. Let's see how that mortality has been going for the last four years. Where's your data? Mortality has increased by almost 10% over the last three years compared to the situation found in 2000. Where can you find that? In a renewed "Monika" survey, the world's largest research by the World Health Organization on cardiovascular diseases in Serbia. Of course, I'll give the exact figures, who's interested in getting that, too. If the policy is good, it will certainly be far-reaching to give good results, but it can stop negative trends. Show us where you stopped the trends, not to mention malignant diseases, not to mention cardiovascular diseases, tuberculosis, HIV. You're telling yourself that we don't know how many HIVes there are, it seems to be much more than our official data. Look at how the Federal State of Germany issues every year a little book where you can see the health situation. You see disease trends, everything that's interesting, which is relevant to one health care service. That doesn't exist in you, but there are flat-rates -- these were bad, they weren't good and they weren't good. The time has come to see how good you are. You have to prove it by means of data, figures, SANU studies and other professional organizations. There's one more thing I want to say in the end. I've certainly been a pain in the ass, I'm sorry for the extensiveness, it's not appropriate, but I think the situation in our health care absolutely requires it. It's not the Ministry's problem anymore. The man was, he made every effort to do what he could. The results and the situation, the time, show that capacity legislative, managing, is not satisfactory. In my opinion, the problem today is in the government of the Republic of Serbia. We need to locate the problem where it is. One government cannot, in addition to what is happening to us, in addition to these health indicators, remain silent and claim that everything is calm, under control and in place. We Serbian radicals in the next debate, which will be open to the government's confidence, argued, on the basis of the opinion of the profession, and not of the marginal groups, were called those dentists, called one way or another, to show the accuracy of this thesis that Serbian health is in a difficult situation and that the health status of the people is not good, that it must be changed quickly and thoroughly. At this point, we are dissatisfied with MPs, health workers. You see, strikes are announced, the union organisation of health workers has been broken down by small unions in order not to be a relevant force, politics and how it interferes, and you can know exactly who's behind which union. Serbian radicals, of course, do not participate. At the very end, let me say once again that the SRS MPs will vote for the proposed amendment despite all the reservations. What are we gonna ask for? Since we are now in favour of the principles of the EU and Europe, we are looking for "transparentity" of the decision to send it abroad. We're asking as a minimum for you to work that everyone who has applied, to be one point of the rule, has the right to gain insight into the complete material on the allocation of funds to people who go abroad.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14705	The word has a representative, Minister Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14706	Dear ladies and gentlemen, there is a good and bad side in all things. From the first statements, the good side is the main one. There is not a single speaker who has not said here that it is not disputed that in the criteria for creating exceptional cases, when the Health Insurance Fund should bear the cost of treatment abroad, the main thing should be a medical indication, should not stand for years, because it is a category that is not correct. It's about a calculation where two and two are equal to four. This line was extorted, I suppose, because it was extorted in those years that at least one number of you remembers from the parliamentary benches. These are the laws of the 1990s. I want to answer a few well-intentioned questions. The reasons are clear, the intentions are good, and that's where we'll all agree. Let's just say we already have a consensus on this issue. The problem is implementation. If you had asked doctors, respected experts in the field of the most difficult diseases that send children abroad, whether they should take down the 15-year limit, a good number of them said -- you'll make it difficult for us to do a terrible job, easier when there's a limit. In a technical sense, it sounds terrible and ugly, it's easier when there's a limit, but you're here, you 250, to say it's not good that the law of the Republic of Serbia has such a limit. No, it's the task of experts on the Fund's commission that must be 55,000 times harder. They should weigh children who are 15.5 years old, 16 years old, 17 years old and 19 years old, and primarily be diagnosed, to be the primary chance of healing. It would be ideal if the health minister in the Republic of Serbia came before the MPs and said - there is something I want to tell you, there is a huge source of money and we will pay everyone, everyone will be able to choose whether to be treated here or abroad. You know much better than I do the economic situation in the country, much better how the land is inherited, on its knees, how the economy is inherited, crawling, and the one standing. Of course, for a long time in the state of Serbia, we will not be in a position to talk about having enough money for everything we need in health care. We have it more, than European countries per capita, than Albania. These are facts and there are problems in these facts that we are solving. It would be ideal if we had reached such an agreement today that we didn't have to talk so much and make arguments that concern entirely other problems. You will already during this session, I am confident, have before you the law on health care chambers and the health care law, and then we will talk, if necessary, 30 days and 30 nights about each of these views. It's May 10th. May hasn't passed yet. The public debate on the insurance law will begin in May. The government passed a law on the Red Cross before Thursday, which will be in front of you, which for the first time gives precise public authority to this organisation. Also, on Sundays ahead of us, you will receive a bill on opiate precursors, which, by the way, then Yugoslavia was bound by a 1971 convention. But not to fall into a trap to get out of trouble and talk about things that I don't really need to talk about today, but to talk about what's the point. If we need to talk for hours, then let's just answer the tax. It's not true, in one well-intentioned degree, there's a diagnostic device for heart and blood vessels, and for God's sake, it's the best in Valjevo, and it's not in the larger centers. That doesn't suit the truth. Serbia has not bought any blood vessels halls in 17 years, a new one. Today, there are two at the Clinical Centre of Serbia, of which there are no better at this time in any country of Europe. By the time I expose myself now, someone will be subject to questioning, possibly therapy, implantation of stents or dilation of the blood vessel, because this center is the first time since its founding work from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. We are considering a question that all possible capacities are being launched, and in this year and last year there will be 10 purchases of angio-salas in Serbia, if budgets for all centres are calculated, including Nis, Kragujevac, Novi Sad and Belgrade. So it's a propo note that's mentioned there. It would be good if we had a chance to remind ourselves that no one should actually be advertised as such or such a party. This is an opportunity for all 250 of you to show express responsibility for one simple thing. Ten years in the Fund, the Commission must, when someone is 15 and 8 months old, say he has crossed the 15-year line, I'm sorry, it's not legal. It eats exactly in the meantime every day, I thank Mr. Baralic, because he said something that will find a way to the ears of health workers who are working now, most of them are at work and he didn't hear it, but he will hear and see it in the newspaper, and that's what doctor and patient relations are about. I'm at the minister's station right now. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm a doctor, I treat people, I diagnose diseases, I give therapy, I monitor their health conditions, I talk in exact categories, and I try to be collegiate. I thank one of my colleagues today for saying the word "honored" despite everything. Thank him very much. When we talk about further remarks that have been mentioned and deserve comment, if we want to hurry up to solve today's problem and end the debate by making sure that this change is introduced, which is not two, three, that's one member, one concrete change, which makes a big commitment to experts. They will now have to measure five times when setting an indication. That's a big problem. You should know, who doesn't do health care, and surely you've had someone of your own, far away, who's had a health problem and you should know that there are several delusions about the health system everywhere in the world and that it's a delusion that, regardless of the diagnosis, we all have the right to suddenly get some service without any order. It's a question of quality and waiting list. We've been working intensively for a year on the most important things that begin to be solved, related to diagnostics and heart disease therapy, related to implantation of implanted material, primarily hips. We inherited thousands and thousands of unoperative people, who didn't even get a chance to talk about them in hospitals, to even come up with a chance to be treated, among other things, thanks to the Republic Health Insurance Office being understood as a house that has to have its autonomy, which has to operate on an economic basis, which should be completely clear and legible. It can be found on any computer, on a website where you can see the financial situation, the way you pay. There are stenograms and records from all meetings of the Commission for the List of Medicinal Products. This list of medicines has never been better in Serbia. She's not ideal, but she's better than anyone she's ever been. That's what you'll hear if you ask doctors and pharmacists, and pharmacologists and citizens. When we talk about something here quoted as the opinion of the International Federation for Human Rights, corruption has been mentioned several times. There are no reliable surveys in the Republic of Serbia on the breadth of corruption in general, nor in the health care system, because such research is extremely complex, sensitive and expensive. You could hear that at a recent Transparents International conference in Belgrade. The meeting noted that for now it is impossible to measure the reliable degree of bribery of Serbian society. For the time being, at least in the health care system, the data and impressions obtained from a public opinion survey or articles in the press on individual cases of bribery or payment from the service pocket are mostly processed. Of course there is. Corruption is a grave disease of Serbian society and we must all treat it together. If we're already taking out a public opinion exam, let's be honest. When you ask citizens to secretly tell you where the biggest corruption is, then health care is third. When you ask them to secretly say who they trust most, then it's the church, so the president of the state, so health care right here, also in third place. We can talk about the reliability of this information, but that's all we have.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14707	Excuse me, Mr. Minister, please, just lower your voice. They work neatly technical appliances.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14708	Technical appliances work, but last time, I had to explain, because I don't show up so often in the Assembly. In fact, citizens don't know what you're yelling at, but they don't hear it, because the microphones are facing only the speaker. My suggestion is, speaking of technique, it would be good for the microphones to be there, so that they can hear what they say, what wing and how. I think the citizens of Serbia would welcome that. It's mentioned in a study that lasted a year. It is about preparing a report by NGOs for the UN Committee on Economic, Cultural and Social Rights in Geneva. The committee was held on 2 May and 3 May this year, and it discussed several reports by international NGOs. One of them is two experts, who stayed in Serbia for 11 days in November last year and held talks with a number of conversators. Some of them are listed in the reports without speaking to them at all, such as: employees of the World Bank office in Belgrade. Their conclusion is presented to the UN Committee. There are also elements in that conclusion. For example, it is said that infant mortality in 2000 was 16 per 1,000 live births, and it was not, it was 11 per 1,000 newborns. During the debate on this committee, where the state union of Serbia-Montenegro defended the initial report on the implementation of the International Pact on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, including reports from several NGOs, including this mention, international experts had much more understanding of our socio-economic environment and problems, and the availability of healthcare, based on data from routine health statistics, was in fact positively assessed. That's true. With an apology that the president of the assembly had to warn me to lower my tone of exposure and apologize to you, I really suggest that you introduce microphones, so that you can hear what you're saying while someone's speaking from this pay phone. That's what Serbian citizens should hear, it would be useful before any future elections. First of all, I thank you, with the hope that this positive energy will prevail over one simple thing. Serbian citizens look at us and say -- is it possible, is it possible that the Serbian Parliament will spend all day discussing that 15 years should not be a border, but should, above all, be a health indication, did we choose these people? Well, let them watch and listen, will they know who to choose?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14709	Just a moment, Mr. Minister, please, thank you for respecting all the MPs and once again reminding you - The Assembly is one of the poorest institutions in the country, it cannot introduce new technical equipment, nor can MPs receive salaries, as you know, nor service, and it is okay, most of the society has these problems, it is okay, it is normal, but I ask you to concentrate all together on what is today's theme session, and that is - the change of one member of the Health Insurance Act. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14710	"Easy's a little nervous. "Mr. Minister, very culturally, the MPs pointed out to you what they think is a health problem and they didn't deserve from you, nor will I ever allow any minister, to yell at them, and then ask the citizens of Serbia if they chose just like this. That doesn't suit you, Mr. Minister. It's not yours to judge who the citizens chose. That's what citizens estimate. And speaking of this law, which is so simple and so simple, you are a four-year minister of health. Yes, it is; and when you resigned to bring down the government, so that your party would enter the government, it was all part of the policy, Mr. Minister. How you don't fall for these four years to see if it's 15 years and 2 months, how it falls to you right now in May, right now when you're asked to talk here about the responsibility of the government of the Republic of Serbia for a terribly bad situation in society, right now when you're looking for a debate about not trusting the government, how you remember right now that it bothers you. Well, I'm convinced -- if humanity was the reason to put 15 years as a limit, that reason stands today. You'll have a hard time deciding, unless you turn the phone or one of your pals, to make this possible for someone else over the age of 15. There's no money, Minister. I understand that. Money shortages have introduced a limit, not inhumaneness. No minister before you was so inhumane, so to speak, I don't care about these over 15 years old. It was a shortage of money. Well, when that corruption took so much moss that they were treated by grandmothers, aunts, aunts, uncles, that they performed plastic surgery, they were drawn by doctors on Italy as a chess board, where they could take down their fat, where they could pump it up, then someone said -- well, let's set the border for 15 years. Well, I don't care if they make a mistake, so let the 15-year-old go away who didn't deserve it. That was motive. That was a motive for introduction. It's inhumane, it's unconstitutional, but here's four years you've suffered this inhumane and unconstitutionalness. I know that your associates are now devoting laws and asking what else this minister might do to fix it and to remain remembered as a good minister. And I'm telling you, go to the hospitals a little bit, disguise yourself a little. I can give you a few ways how you can do it without being recognized. Listen to some patients. Listen to what they need to be treated for. Now that he's got the funds, whatever they need. That would be very good for the minister. I know you're not at risk. Neither did I. I really didn't. And where I showed up, where the blackest guys were doctors, no one was allowed to work against the profession. You'll have money, like me, and for the most expensive surgery, and I'm sure of it, or you'll find someone to lend to you. But you know how many millions of people don't have anyone to expect it from. You're talking about artificial hips. Look at the current lists, how much an artificial hip costs. How much Serbian citizens have money to bring in an artificial hip to be installed. And you know that there are qualifications, you want to last 20 years, or 10, or 5, or last 2-3 years, of which the material will be, and how much the top doctors are burdened, however much money you have, and give it money, he can't operate for 4-5 months. I want to open a serious debate about health care, about every topic you want to talk about, not like this -- accuse us of politics, and you yell at us here and call on the citizens of Serbia to think about who they voted for. They've been thinking about who they voted for a long time ago, and that's what the latest election results show, and I'm not going to brag about it. Maybe it's not our stash. Maybe we're not as good as you guys are. That's what's worse than you can be. Of this combination, which now has Serbia, there are no worse ones and change that. Find ways to stop blackmailing each other, not to depend on each other anymore. Find a way to run the country well. And what's the problem with us supporting such a good law? But the problem is that you don't allow us to run the state as a National Assembly, to discuss what's most important in it, to discuss what's most important in this moment for the state. Here, an MP from Shida will read you a letter. The plumbing has nothing left to chlorine water. All the other stories fall into the water. In Serbia, we have more chlorine to clean drinking water in cities, which thus provides healthy, bacteriological and chemically correct drinking water. What have you done? The factory is closed, there's a strike, it's not manufactured. This importer, who is now probably privileged, has a lot of work to do. He can't deliver chlorine in two months, and tomorrow he needs water. Are we going to buy all of them at the bottled water store now? Does everyone have money for that? I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14711	Thank you. We're continuing on this agenda point. Please, let's stick to the Rules of Procedure. What replica? No one was mentioned. What are you talking about? Please, please, the word has a People's MP, Miroljub Maric, let the MP of the people be prepared, Dr Milet Poscurica. Excuse me, on what grounds? He's speaking to Ambassador Momchilov. According to the Rules of Procedure? Excuse me, please, I was misinformed by Mr. Zankov for a replica. Excuse me. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of Pai Momchilov, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14712	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure because I'm being misread. Of course, I didn't get a word in, and Mr. Secretary here said that what we said didn't stand, that there was no research on corruption. This is (in hands holding the material) research "Marten Board International". I'm not saying it's quality, or that it's an institution. You swear that this is one cornerstone of democracy in Serbia. You said we have the least money per capita in health care, which is absolutely false. The 2004 World Health Organization report, which I present to you here, says this - per capita in this region: in Croatia $726 per head per year, in Bulgaria 303, in Bosnia and Herzegovina 268, in Greece $1, 1,500, in Hungary 914, in Romania 460, and in Serbia and Montenegro $616. Official source of the World Health Organization. It's not that we're not the bottom of the Balkans. Look at this data. You had to give them this information. Where's the source from? They say it's from Geneva, taken from the UMDPE organization, I can't even read, here, they'll tell me better, those who cooperate closer with that association that gave that data. That's what you gave the official information. It's not as bad as you say. And you say it's a good list. It's safe that she's needed and safe... I'm just saying that she's been brought in in an illegal manner. And I said that because of this, Rada Lukovic resigned from the government of the Republic of Serbia as deputy. And I said that two people from the pharmacovigilance commission, whose names I've read, because they haven't even discussed the law on that commission, have resigned. Now, is the list good? It certainly is for daily use, it can be used and it's good, but I also told you that none of the domestic producers, from Hemofarms, are satisfied, and none of the foreign ones are satisfied with that list. That's all I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14713	Thank you for your clarification, Mr. Momchilov. Of course, there's a word for Minister Milosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14714	I thank the previous speaker, because he gave me the opportunity to say the following: the amount of money mentioned, when it is said that we have more than Albania alone, is the sum of money that has Serbia's health system available every year to provide all the health insurance and all the citizens of Serbia in all the areas of their health care needs. And that amount is higher when it includes investment, on the one hand, state and budgets in maintaining infrastructure and refurbishing equipment, which has not been in place for 15 years, so that is what is sometimes said - painting, painting, building, repair and shopping. That's right, it is, and that amount is 10 times larger in 2005 than it was in 2001. And there is, of course, that investment that we got on loan under favourable conditions, 20 million dollars for the reconstruction of four major hospitals and reconstructions, but also for the reconstruction of the hospital system - Kraljevo, Valjevo, Zrenjanin, Vranje. There is an emergency intervention in 20 hospitals with 50m euros, a favourable loan from the European Investment Bank for 20 hospitals, including Torlak, which was mentioned today, and which is due to invest 2.5m euros from the loan this year. When you include it all, of course you come to a larger amount, because of this investment in infrastructure and equipment that hasn't been there in years. That is why Serbia's health minister, not only the one who is now in front of you, but probably the next, and another, and probably also third, will have to deal with roofs, gutters, walls, windows, doors, corridors, disinfection, washing hands, infrastructure, rebuilding, shopping, repair, and, together with you, the Serbian Government needs, this one now, to create a sustainable health system, which will be realistic and in which it will clearly know the criteria and how the health money is spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14715	The People's Messenger Miroljub Maric has a word, and the People's Messenger Milet Poscurica should be prepared. I owe one clarification and apology, indeed, to the Ministry of Health, and, of course, to my great regrets, Mr Milosavljevic is not a minister for four years, much less in two governments. A whole series of laws that are being prepared go through a public debate and unfortunately could not come to the agenda, and not even one such brief and simple law that has been in the Assembly for several months now, and as you know, the Assembly cannot consider such a number of laws in the procedure. Here you go, Mr. Maric, and I apologize to everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14716	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a law amending the Health Insurance Act. It is specifically about Article 27 and the abolition of age censorship for the sending of certain conditions, injuries and diseases that really do not have the conditions to be treated in our country. This is where we heard from colleagues from previous speakers about various health problems. I would like to express my opinion, given that I am a man who is a 25-year-old doctor and who has spent various stages in this medical system, without the intention of talking about history, with no intention of blaming anyone for the current situation. I think this condition in our healthcare system is very complicated, slightly said very complicated. We're all aware of that, especially us health care professionals. However, an easy complaint would be to my colleagues, not politicians, because politicians have the right, given that it is a very important topic for the lives of citizens, to give certain praises, criticisms; however, I resent fellow doctors who may be using good health information to politicise some serious health problems. I have to say... (Natasa Jovanovic, from the post: Which colleague? ) Not specifically, none of my colleagues, I can even commend certain colleagues who are very exhaustive, and specifically fellow Momchilova, who spoke very comprehensively about health problems. But what I'm saying is that we all need to be together on one front and fix this health system. It's not a problem right now, G 17 plus, that you need to praise the minister. He is indisputable and there is no minister present, but it is undeniable that Health Minister Tomica Milosavljevic is making a huge effort to adapt this system and fix as much as possible to a more decent level. However, the problems are enormous precisely because we have failed to adopt a system of healthcare financing. It's this former system of health funding that we know, and as a young doctor I was extremely privileged, there was plenty of drugs and there was plenty of sanity material, and we were great enthusiasts, and this problem of corruption at the time was not even mentioned, let alone there was. Why? Because we had about eighty years of extraordinary working conditions. Our health system has been developing enormously in those years. What's the problem? Then we could at some point, when we lack money for certain needs, we simply do some rebalancing and there was no question of where that money came from. As a young doctor, I was in these leading structures, some of the SIZ's intermunicipality health, just asking economists how we can plan some expenses for which we don't have money. That's exactly the kind of health policy that's been run these years. I don't want to preach to anyone from the contemporaries and say that he and I were in power and that was bad. It wasn't bad, because then it was doable. It's not feasible today. We, just as a team from the Health and Family Committee or in the field as part of our primary health care reform, have visited six health homes. On the ground, we saw that I had real problems with my leg, especially economic problems. Health organizations owe water, electricity, their current needs. Unfortunately, these debts are huge, they are inherited and burden the normal business of health institutions. On the other hand, I have in a folder a series of data, and now not to be a spokesman for the Ministry of Health, what has been done in recent years. Believe me, it's done a lot. Believe me, here are 20 major hospitals in Serbia that are major construction sites and big investments are planned. However, all of this does not improve the functioning of health institutions at this time. Why? Because we have to create a new way of funding. It is this new way of financing health institutions that will be the basis for the adoption of a new health insurance law, which, as the minister pointed out earlier, will be in the process. We need all our brains and energy to focus on how to overcome these current health problems, because we are witnessing that modern medicine is extremely expensive and that it needs a lot of resources. In order not to raise the issue, given that this is a short law, I would like to stress that the G17 Plus Party will vote in favour of this law and I am very pleased that the Committee on Health and Family has reached a consensus and that we will all vote together to change this law. The problem was a little while ago in law enforcement, law enforcement due to lack of money. Just in the meantime, hopefully, we'll pass a new health insurance law, and we'll probably have a chance to increase that fund limit that's planned for these cases. Once again, G17 plus will support the amendments to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14717	Thank you, Mr. Maric. The People's Messenger Dr Mileta Poscurica has the word, and let the People's Messenger Cedomir Petkovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14718	Ladies and gentlemen, today we will unfortunately talk about amendments to the Health Insurance Act, and instead of talking about this new, long-announced, insurance law, and then to tackle health problems entirely. Understandably, we will accept this short change, which has also been presented by the promoter as a content which means, at least formally, the equalisation of citizens' rights to treatment, and what they have constitutional right to do. I'm afraid it's one of the demagogue clauses and to turn a little ball into some other pitch, usually on the side of those who've accused us of having demagogue attitudes in our speeches, and that we're demagogue-oriented, to add cheap points, and that, if it's wrongly justified, we're doing it ourselves, etc. This law, in fact, even in the context of the formulation put forward by the promoter, shows that it will not give everyone an equal chance for treatment abroad, not only for limiting the funds we hear about, but for not hearing from speakers, we should know it from the board, how much money has been spent so far, how many people have really required in last year's treatment abroad, which was gratis. We hear Italy. Where are the other 18 NATO nations, which have made aggression on this country, why haven't they helped? Is that a thing in their bad governments, in their poor choices, is that because our minister and our government are misquoted there, so no one wants to invest in it and help us get out of a crisis that they have contributed significantly to, which is the increased incidence of cardiovascular diseases, the increased incidence of malignant diseases. Listen sometimes on local televisions by local epidemiologists. Rarely anyone who dares direct questions of journalists to say - more of it is more, they stutter, they fear the director what he will say, they fear some reactions and spies who listen and transmit it, and indeed there are more and more of these diseases, which we can justifiably claim to be a significant part of the consequences of NATO aggression, the radiation that our patients have received. The greatest order now is not just for artificial hips. There are large rows of radiation for patients. Perhaps Serbia needs more mevatrons or linear accelerators today than ultrasounds. So much is the reason why, speaking of this bill, we will express our suspicion that the minister, the ministry and his associates will be competent to realise what they have proposed by amending this. A team before the funds have already been spent. We'll be happy just so that once on the screens of private and state television, we don't look at requests for help. We've seen almost an acute myoblastic leukemia, 100,000 euros for a transplant abroad, 100,000 euros. That's a fifth, that's a seventh sum that's proposed here just in case of one child. Let it be taken off the screen, the people will help and help, and it is de facto, the people are ours. He's on his cell phone, if 25, 50 dinars, and he's helping with the unfortunate fates, but he can't be a state concept like that. That should also be regulated by law, the state cannot rely on it. It may be the law, and it is already in further terms by the promoter that the Republic Institute will form expert commissions, which will decide who will be referred to abroad. Which rank institution will be used, we don't know anything about it, whether we'll have the opportunity to make prominent experts who will be members of these committees, and I believe that it will actually be people who have been living on commissions so far, who we already have on the list of those famous books from Mladenvec, 2001, 2002, where even married couples on commissions are quite politicalally alike. I know from my city whoever went to the Republic Commission for Health, for science, for education, they're all members of the parties in power. There's no dilemma. Find me one if it isn't, I'll be happy to have you confirm that. So, if they are, how will they treat the institutions we're going to go to, will there be any chance, we've heard about the Medenica again? Is that gonna be something else? Are we going to have a chance to heal, heal or heal children up to 15 years of age? What about the elders? Why is the rush this big? If the law was foreseen in May, why wasn't it an integral part of the Health Protection Act? Maybe it's someone who's in a hurry from the establishment, and someone in some secret ways, like in Broz's time when they took the fat off at the Ljubljana clinical center, then state-of-the-art? And help needs that man, wherever he is from, any political alliance that he is, we're not saying he doesn't need it, but are we going to make a new mistake now? Will someone older go away and stay a child? A lot of things haven't been solved, because we don't have the basic information how many people the orientation needs, from which sector, how many waiting lists are there going to be? As far as the profession is concerned, they're very clear, very well-known how many lists there are, as long as anyone can wait for a heart transplant, liver, kidney, there's no dilemma. As for the profession, you don't need any special experts, that and in the textbooks the standard little better stands the maltenes up to the day calculated. Today we are faced with the fact that such deadlines are not respected. Another reason why we think that this minister and the furniture do not enjoy citizens' trust, is that we are operating on the ground meeting with the fact that everything and if the law is passed or amended by law like this, and formally it is okay, the lower institutions also in the subordination of the ministry, such as the Republic Institute, adopt their acts, their boards of directors, pass them on to lower-level institutions, and then they bring new acts on their boards, and then it's a circulation of the reduction of rights, a continuous reduction of acquired rights guaranteed by law. Until someone figures out and starts the question, like we did here last time at a congregation pay phone, why treat someone of quality, it's terrible to say, quality cytostatics, but cytostatics, up to 60 years old. And recently after that, a few months after that, the minister abolished the regulation. If that's an empty story, that's not a demagogue, that's a regulation, that's a law, that's all the cytostatics, that we know when you're already giving them to who you're giving them to, and that someone has to be forced at 60 and a couple of months old, in despair, crying and lying to the commission that he's only 60 years old, three months old has been falsely reported to gain the right to live. One terrible dehumanization, one violation of the basic constitutional principle, has been promoted for years. When it came from here, someone came to think of it, so he changed. See what else the lower-ranking institutions do, but still under the auspices of the Republic Health Protection Institute. It is often the impression that it is a feud over the feud, the institution, and that they and the minister are more powerful, that they can make far more difficult decisions and with more serious consequences to make. Here, let's say, they create famous waiting lists. We know that not all hips can be replaced at the same time in Serbia and it has somehow become a trivial story of hip replacement, but now a new moment appears. The decision was made to participate 10.25%, no more than 30,000 dinars, to replace the hip. Now it's waiting again on that list and there are differences between those in traumatism, those with degenerative diseases and now it's a chance that a center, like the one I come from, has a series of such models that lack one dimension. To get the surgeon into the O.R., I guess he needs three similar consecutive dimensions, so he knows which one he's going to place. Because of the missing one dimension of the hip, someone will be returned for another three to six months to wait. Someone who's personally tied to my family has been waiting for a hip for seven years. The man's too old, there's been contraindications to replace his hip. But a hook is not the greatest evil. The regulation also stipulates that even air therapy has a waiting list. And imagine, as well as the cytostatics, when someone's operated on and indicated radiation goes on the waiting list. And imagine when it comes to having a patient lie down in an institution to be provided with air therapy in hospital conditions. Here's an example. It's not from Kragujevac. It's not from Kragujevci. It's someone who's gravitating. It's impossible to find a place in the hospital for that. Does this raise the problem of general policy if Serbia really needs more linear glaciers, more mevatrons? It's necessary. Give it now, when those who pay us for tens of or more tens of millions of euros from the European Agency for Reconstruction and Development, from the EU, if they give us that kind of money, listen to our experts, give our opinion, our position, let it shift to what is today in Serbia priority. Who's going to convince me and who's going to say it's okay in the ministry and that the decisions of the Governing Board of the Republic Institute are good, or lower institutions, if they say - the radiation of bone metastases is waiting, and whoever's not, they're going to pay eleven and a half thousand. Is it worse than bone metastases? What else is he waiting for? Morphine? What's he waiting for? Death. So, he's got to wait or he's gonna pay 11 grand for pure palitative, the doctors know what that means. Such regulations, adopted by the Republic Health Insurance Office, are being called for by lower centres. Indeed, it is a whole series of reasons why we express the infidelity and do not believe that what is brought will be thoroughly implemented. This is usually a primal good, primal clean and honest decision that everyone has a right. Whether there's going to be a form or a demagogue clause, just like you characterized us to talk about it in a demagogue dictionary. In the last few days, a new paper has appeared in the homes of health and hospitals, where hospitals, stationary facilities, are banned from taking medicines for treatment that are on the so-called. The negative list. So far, it has been possible, and now the restrictions on rights and what doctors are now doing to extend treatment, to press the length of stay in the ward, to release the patients and to think that they transfer to the burden of home health. When, like, yesterday in my town, the health director calls and says, "He can't have longacef, he can't get anybody but an extension of the hospital." Watch the longaceph, at the time the most spits, it was longaceph. Today people are treated with gentamicin from all infections and cheap antibiotics pe-ros, which has its place, but therefore in a third, a quarter of the old population develops renal weakness. It'll only cure the fact that he's got a home of health. Therefore, the health of patients with the cheapest medications is ruined. We know it's really, formally, an antibiotic, but let's remember all the less time-consuming years we've ever had at our disposal for this primary health care. Home of health, no lower level. Look at the famous list of medicines, which the minister says has never been better, is bigger than any vademecum. It's a huge list, an international classification complete, and there's all that SIZ is supposed to cover under different circumstances. Something on the prescription, something stationary, something when it's prescribed by the commission. Ask multiple sclerosis patients how much they were diagnosed in the subsequent procedure so they don't come to interferon, how much with or won't get pegazis with Hottatis C, how much the commission will estimate, how much biopsy will be done and that they will never get. So, it doesn't work out everything on the ground as perfectly well-conceived and imagined, because the Ministry itself doesn't stand well. The thing is that it is a lower institution, a step below, just a step lower, almost egal with the minister and his associates, making regulations, decrees that reduce insurance rights in a less or more visible way. When it comes to primary protection, take a list of medications A, which go to medical prescription, so open up more carefully, because doctors know that even among medications there are, all those who would be more favourable in the world, where they make us fight for points, for medical education, learn new, as if we don't know it, so when we learn new and good, and you look at the list, participate a patient from 25% to 75%. The more expensive the drug, the higher the patient’s participation level. Even some antilipenics, if we want primary prevention, remain reserved only after special commissions that are difficult to get for the therapeutic phase of treatment, when the patient is already having a heart attack, when he develops dilated ischaemic cardiomyopathy, and then he can get an antilipenic to prevent it, the rest of his life to make it more favourable. He's not in primary health care. The world will be hard to convince that it's okay. It's understandable that there's a criterion and every doctor knows it. The other side, the second or third reason why we think the Ministry is not doing its job well is an application in the very regulation that they have implemented with their own decrees. Here, one of these regulations given by the Republic Health Protection Institute, where it clearly writes, is not subject to the payment of medicines and who is released from participation. When you look a little more closely, you'll also see for blood donors, after 30 donations or only three months after the last one, they're free of payment. How are you going to motivate someone to get to the 30th, if you know that on average, the poorest give twice a year's blood. He's 15 years old, trusting only this set-up, has to go into a blood-giving loan so he can be treated there for 16 years, so that some of it pays off, that he's got the benefit. The law will regulate it, future donors, legacy of tissue and organs. And how, with what will you motivate them, when we fought almost on the board that one day the sick will get more of those who give blood. Why do we visit the local experts all the time, why foreign experts give us money? If the reform of the transfusiological service was spent between 10m and 12m euros, we do not know how much of it went into the equipment, how much it invested in the equipment, how much it went into consulting services. And just imagine if a few percent were saved, how many more surgery would be. Don't we know how to make blood products? Don't we know what equipment is needed for that? And is that necessary, I don't know if an affair that started last year about it was brought to an end, to give foreigners that what is most qualitative, which is the ideal resource of our healthy population in this regard, to give someone to do on the side and to do the job and to gain additional benefit. I'd like to ask you some more questions, and that's why we don't think we're going to get a final solution in this way, and this is going to be one of the demagogue clauses, which is related to the functioning of this minister's furniture. There are often so - called health institutions in today’s health institutions. Excess labour force. Very often in many hospital wards a medical staff, which works for several months, without an indefinite contract, are not under contract, are fired, a new one is accepted and a number of funds is raised from the fund, and is compensated, and the healthcare institutions themselves are bypassed, because they are then not paying nurses, lower technical personnel, and then when they are brought to the edge of the service organisations, they are quickly received, so someone loses their jobs, and they receive someone again. See today where I come from, at the Dialysis Centre for several days is not prohibited, but it is recommended not to simply receive patients from the belonging municipalities of Topol and Arangelovac but to pass on to Mladenovac. The minister was in our dialysis, and now that he's gone and he's disguised, which one of the MPs said, so he can look at what the center looks like, it's a quiet chill. There are no more spatial options, no more appliances, because the incidence of such patients and the criteria that were previously quietly significantly lower, no one had asked that question before. But sophisticated technology has given people the opportunity to heal in 70 years of life, even later. Now we can't start treating newly-dialysed patients, we're able to get many back, send them to another center, and it's likely to be a circulation of the viciosus of closing down other centers and making their work worse. If everyone goes to Lazarec, where there's room, then the dream and the ride will cost a lot and it'll be a discomfort of another species. There's no general concept, at least as far as this center is concerned. We've already lost every hope for five years waiting for it to heal, turn, emulate and fix something. And this institution of ours is obvious evidence, I don't want to talk bad about the city where I live, I don't need to say it, it's in itself in a very difficult state, the whole city and the economy, it's all in a very low state, but because I want to make a point, not to say that it's one of the demagogues, that it's one of the inaccessible states that we're so often, just to talk about the authorities badly, we bring out. A number of different decisions have been made by the Management Boards and institutions supported by the Decision of the Republic of Slovenia to make so-called Participations for services are executed, and this last one, which is quite decent, looks like already seen from a few years ago, 10 to 30 dinars, rarely when more, but still it hides another danger. The mass of the institution schedules now checks and for two months you can't do a standard laboratory analysis in the home of health, or in a mediocre city, because it's now expensive, it's only 10 dinars of participation, and they used to, by charging more, take more money, so they've been revoking the reagents faster. So, however you turn, it's not good again, and if you're not taking anything from a patient or just 10 dinars per analysis that's scheduled. Waiting lists for diagnostics or overa specialist for a specific diagnostic agent, that's something you can't put on, so, some kind of means, some kind of laboratory analysis of a particular species, where you're going to have to have a whole consulate go to verify that someone needs immunoglobulins not to pay. It's a routine analysis that a specialist doctor or an immunologist could determine on his own. And sometimes it happens to some high-priced doctor from another profession who knows that, say, nephrologists have to write an immunological analysis, and they can't pay 990 dinars for that immunological analysis, because it's on some list and it's not socially going to admit a refund of funds. We know that the fund refunds very late, if it refunds at all, and the last decision that has now come to many institutions has come from the Republic Institute again, that the list of negative medicines must really be applied. But it's hard to understand that when a patient goes to the vascular surgery ward, he's going to have to buy 40 ampoules a second to get an infusion, because the hospital hasn't had it in years, I know it from personal experience, and it's been taken. The doctor who prescribes the current, according to hospital director's regulations, will be able to carry out the consequences under the labor contract. But what it means is he gets fired. The patient, as much as we can talk about whether the use of this drug is life-saving or not, but the other drug we don't have to give, everyone gets it, and everyone has to buy it, and 40 ampoules, that's not very little. If he does not pass the commission under that order, according to the decision, here is the decision, not to make up, in that decision a consilium of five doctors, and if a man lists names and watches are usually doctors who are expertly engaged in tenders or for some large and powerful houses. As the same characters agree, it's just a story for themselves. Well, then the general composition of the ministry and these lower-ranked and lower-ranked ones, it's an empty story, and it's clear to everyone. One more thing to throw a shadow at the money's disposal. We were witnesses that up until a few years ago in the King, Europe was doing an experiment, that some money, they shared money, but it was meant for the doctor to take the computer and knock everything instead of the medical records, and then the effectiveness of health care will increase as much as possible. I heard from a doctor from the field, that I don't say names, that they're not very excited about it, is that they learned to knock, people who are my age or older, they weren't really into computers, but they did it. I don’t know how many medical institutions such a computer processing is applied and how much it will bring to someone the sources of income when bought and whether if the ministry buys a computer or a few of these, it will deny money for the treatment of serious patients. The latest hit is that in some pharmacies in the interior, large videos are installed, some screens on which instructions will be programmed for drug patients, interactions, or information for patients, read and fly on that screen, and in any case, close pharmacies and children will probably push when their medicine comes to their turn to read about the cure. It's just amazing. There's an intervention phone, I don't know who's answering it, five to seven, so the pharmacist will tell you if your interaction is good, whether the combination of drugs is good. Then where's the doctor's role? What are we playing at? Some pharmacy directors say, when it's new, when we introduce new software, hardware, someone to split the money by vertical to the pharmacy director, we're going to read what the highest frequency of disease is and what the people in our city suffer the most from. Where do the pharmacists do that? Anyway, the money's coming, it's supposed to cover it, nicely for you and me, now you're new to Serbia, with a new project, so you sign it up as a point, and you're staying after a candidate for a higher institution, and we hear the Agency for Medicinal Products is doing a bad job. So, a lot of things happen, money can be spent on anything, so this discussion has gone too far, from the point of view of the ability to reroute money, at least for those who will be subjected to treatment abroad, for whatever reason to be an indication, of course, disease as an indication first of all, and not a year. We expect that other useful discussions, first of all from opposition lines, will achieve one effect, the neri-bund effect, the knowledge that simply other doctors, other people, other political participants in political life are able to see the objective state of our health and see that something really doesn't work so well, and that there are no elements for large praises. That something's moving and happening, it's happening, but let's not forget that there's been a lot of investment on the side and that these investments are very disparity. We know about Japan that it stood out, let us praise Japan, let us commend if Italy has treated so many children. Let's see who else, but if we open it up and we start to brag, how much did anyone give, then we have to ask the question of where the money went. Maybe that's what we can't wait for, maybe it can lead us theoretically into a chance to stay rude or ungrateful to someone on the side, even though he was a member of group 19 of those who did us harm, but if he gave us something and contributed something, we should know that. To finally come up with what we have, what our problems are, because only 700 000 euros, it is indeed a small sum for the newly assumed situation and interventions of different species to be done abroad.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14719	The word is made by MP Cedomir Petkovic. He's not here. The People's MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic has the word, and let the MP Predrag Mijailović Luna be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14720	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the minister had just been angry at the MPs for showing a desire to expand the subject a little bit, which is not just a matter of amendments to a member of the Health Insurance Act. However, we are here national representatives, and we have a duty to point out from a broader point of view to health problems, when the bill's proposing is already in the O.R., or competent minister, because it is an opportunity for the minister to hear what is really the state of health, what is the situation in the resolution he is managing. It is not our goal to just post-poto criticise, but to inform the minister of some real problems, and we, as MPs, still have little more insight into what is happening in health care, what is the situation in health institutions. And instead of being kind of grateful that he can be familiar with it, he's unwarrantedly angry with us, even wondering why the citizens are putting us here with their votes as MPs. In order to gain insight into the state of health, a patient’s eyes should sometimes be looked at, the eyes of health employees, and that of the vast majority who work hard for a small salary, not those privileged minorities who manage health institutions, not those of the minority corrupt, who put aside all health employees and this entire sector. Since, by circumstances, I am a member of the Health and Family Committee, I can tell you that this committee is overwhelmed by the presentations of citizens on the state of health in almost all health institutions. Here, mainly in terms of patients or health workers, they complain of a catastrophic situation in terms of organisation of work, poor management, corruption of individuals, even some much more serious criminal activities. What's mostly going on with these performances? The Assembly Committee does not have the effective power to do something concrete and we are going into a pointless situation to forward this play to the Ministry of Health, even when the applicant of the play tells us that he has already spoken several times to the Ministry of Health, and he has not received an answer or received a satisfactory answer. We as citizens, as MPs, have a complete understanding of the non-resolvement or poor resolution of any problem in health, if the cause of the problem is a lack of money, but we have no understanding of not solving any particular problem, if the cause is not a lack of money but bad handling, if it is a cause of corruption. So maybe with a little more negative charge, we're using the opportunity to get out of this assembly booth, because that's the real meaning of the function of the MP, we point out from one broader aspect of the problems in any area. As for the amendment of this member of the law we are discussing, it is too much to say after those who have already spoken, there are no MPs or citizens who will say that this change of law is not good. She is good, but on the other hand we're trying to point out some risks and possible consequences of changing this member. What are the risks? The first is the risk of awakening the false hopes of many patients and their families. I'm already seeing tomorrow's paper on the headlines saying that from the day of the amendment of this law, everyone will be able to be treated abroad. You know how often journalists can be very simple, incorrect to write and not pass the essence of the law. I can imagine how many false hopes this change will cause. The other negative consequence is going to be - which one? The minister himself said, and we all know that and that he didn't tell us that he couldn't and couldn't increase the money fund for treatment abroad. Since the category of those who will have the right to go is expanded, what will happen in the state of Serbia will have to happen, and that is that through this small open door, the provokings will be privileged and powerful individuals, members of their families, their friends, their godfathers, etc. What's wrong with that? It's bad that now children under 15 will have potentially less chance of being treated abroad than before. So we absolutely don't think that the proposal's motive was to open up the possibility of allowing privileged individuals to be treated abroad, but this will be a practical consequence. As for the Health Insurance Act, the minister announced that he would soon enter into the two basic laws governing health care in Serbia. It's a health care law, which was held at a public hearing and, according to our information, the professional public did not welcome it with enthusiasm, and the health insurance law. What is there to say about this future health insurance law? It will be necessary to introduce several different levels of vision, forms of health insurance. It will be necessary to introduce additional voluntary health insurance, not to be in a situation where we all invest in the Health Fund, in proportion to the same, without all getting the same, that those who have more can relatively more and invest, in order to exercise the right to a higher degree of health care. What will be the most painful, the most delicate topic, is a new situation in the past few years in Serbia, which is that there has been an expansion of the private sector in the area of health care. What do you do with the private sector? He is there, he provides health services more and more and it will be inevitable and future. What is the status of private health care now? Private health institutions exist, as far as I know, only for tax authorities. For the Ministry of Health of the private health care institutions practically do not exist, they also do not exist for the health insurance system. The proposer of this new law must cross that ruby. It will either continue its practice to ignore the private sector or integrate it into a health care and health insurance system. If it integrates it, then we will change this current absurd situation for a citizen - a patient who decides to carry out a review at a private health care facility to be discriminated against at a later stage of health care in state institutions. So, the one who saved up the initial funds to the Health Services Fund by going to a private facility instead of the state, practically, is now losing his right to any further diagnostic procedure and losing his right to prescriptions for medications recommended to him in a private health care facility. This situation is illogical, unfair, and intolerable in the long run. Whether the Ministry will have the strength to integrate private health institutions or not, I know it's a really big bite to swallow, that the current system doesn't leave any extra money, but the Fund is in big losses, so I'm pessimistic that some important step will be made in that area. One more thing stands before the ministry as a major challenge, and I would say a grudge over the past period, that is that health capacities do not adapt to new morbidity trends in Serbia. We know there's an explosion of malignant diseases, we know there's a much higher rate of morbidity in cardiovascular diseases. There's tight throats. Maybe in the ministry, inside four walls, there are some elaborates, some projects. As MPs, we don't know that, citizens as sick and as patients don't feel it. There's a huge grudge to the Ministry that in the last four or five years nothing's been done. So we expect the Minister of Health to propose these two fundamental laws, and I agree that then, as the minister said, if we need 30 days and 30 nights, we will exchange arguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14721	Minister Milosavljevic called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14722	Since there has been a concrete question that deserves a concrete answer, 3,000 and slightly more have been private institutions registered in the country for the last 15 years. A year ago, the Ministry of Health made a public call, along with the Fund, to all private people, to offer their services for the conclusion of a contract with the Fund. Of the 3,000 institutions, 19 reported. Three have concluded a contract and today they are doing services that the state health care does not have in its capacity. One is a private hospital that provides services for 26 people on haemodialysis, so they don't go to the car in Barajevo, Lazarjevac and around. Prior to that, the ministry insisted on a strategic contract with the KBC reference institution, which will be responsible for the management of complications, with the Institute for Blood Transfusion and Emergency Aid, so that co-operation could be as necessary when a citizen is at risk of complications. The next step, before this law story, is several hundred ministry talks, on the one hand the minister and his team, among other things, a consultant for improving relations with private practice, which has been appointed over the past few months. After these talks, the Fund was given an order that all private owners of the facility, doctors of general medicine, dentists, gynecologists and pediatricians could conclude a contract with the Fund, get a stamp with an identification number, the same prescription form, which is being prepared, with holographic protection, which will be used from July to July for all. Therefore, these are concrete moves. Adapting capacity to new needs is also in action. One of these hospitals I mentioned, let's mention it now, 700 beds had a grain hospital as part of a project that wasn't just painting, painting, building, finishing, but restructuring. In October, a major European meeting, organised by the Council of Europe, will be held in Belgrade, in the field of paliatical medicine, extended hospitalisation. For example, out of 700 beds today, this hospital has 470. Of course, restructuring is a serious job, adapting to the new needs of the health system is a serious job, which requires not hasty moves and marketing, but carefully measured moves. To conclude, in 2005, state large institutions, for example, the Nis Clinical Center, with a contract with the Fund, have 3% more resources to do their job, just so that, at this point, they don't have a magnetic resonance, they can send a patient to a private center and then they themselves pay for that service that was done in private protection. Meanwhile, resonance is being bought. Both Nis and Belgrade will have new resonances this year.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14723	National MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14724	What the minister was saying is true, but it's true what I said. I was talking about the need for the private health sector to be integrated as such into the health care and health care system. The minister said there is a possibility that private health institutions are now contracting with the Fund to provide services that the state sector cannot provide. That fact is familiar to me, but that's not what I was talking about. So what the minister said is undeniable, it really is, but it's a drop in the sea. It must open up the possibility for private institutions and their users to be able to go to a private institution with a health book, to do everything that the institution can provide, and to cover the costs from the Fund's resources. Whether it's gonna be some extra, voluntary, or I don't know what form of insurance, that's another question. As for capacity adjustments to some new trends in morbidity – I would also use the term that it is a drop in the sea, there are narrow throats everywhere, in all municipalities, in all health institutions – and that, of course, must be a long-term process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14725	Thank you, Mr. Nedeljkovic. Another note, please, Mr. Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14726	I'm really sorry to call so often, but well-intentioned, actually, we're having a conversation and it's good to know what the facts are. There is no insurance register anywhere in Europe that can say - this is a insurance register, it is a health dinar, and now everyone under equal conditions competes with their services, no matter what level of service it was, what quality the service was; under equal conditions you will earn by performing a health service. We need modern health insurance, which will be a modern, independent fund, which will be the business's client. So, the fund should be a modern insurance company, which will buy favors from someone, and someone won't. If you go to any Western European country today that has decades-old traditional insurance in the right way, of course it's a mandatory insurance tradition and civilization fluid. And I fully agree that in the new regulation, it also stands in the old law, but it has never come to life in Serbia, we need voluntary insurance, which will then cover the extra packages, which will allow for the selection of a large number of institutions, but you can hardly expect to suddenly accept all the institutions formed as private, as fully equal in the search for a health dinar. No, by quality standards. Today there are private institutions, as well as state institutions, which make contracts with insurance cashiers, so if you go for example. In Austria, you will see that under the notice it says - all the cash registers, the contract is signed, but there are institutions that are free on the market, which do not have a contract with the fund. Therefore, the fund must have autonomy in the conclusion of the contract and that implies relations - the quality of health work does not depend on ownership. Evidence of this is insistence on chamber, licensing, accreditation and quality as something that has nothing to do with ownership. We're talking about the same things, and, if I may say so, we've again agreed that this amendment of article 27 should absolutely be supported and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14727	Thank you. The word is by MP Predrag Mijailovic-Lune, and by MP Nikola Todorovic. You will be given the word as an authorised representative, of course, please, after the debate is over. Please, I have to follow the Rules of Procedure in an exact order, don't worry, we'll respect everything by the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Lune. The emissaries insist. I've already given my word to the speaker, I can't, I have to wait for the speaker to finish and give my word to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14728	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have only one member of the Health Insurance Act in front of us. At first glance, it would say that it's not that important, you might even think about why we put this, this change, on the agenda, when we have much more important system laws waiting in the process, and at the same time we say, we're wasting time on this one member. Amendment of Article 27. The Health Insurance Act reveals and shows how responsible we are here in parliament, of what the Parliament is, and that is also a reminder to this Parliament, as well as to all of us MPs, that when we pass laws and come out for this pay phone, we must think carefully and always be aware that not only one member, but also a word, and in some cases even the commas can define fate, even the right to the lives of the citizens of this country. It is no wonder, then, that such a lively debate is being held on this one single member. That was understood and proposed by the government to amend the law. Normally, it should have been before, but there were other laws, and that is why the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and hopefully the entire parliament, wants to put all citizens of this country in an equal position, to have the same rights to receive health care under the same conditions, regardless of the years of life. To clarify - to the current member of the Health Insurance Act, which is changing, the right to treatment abroad had only persons up to 15 years. As a man and a professional, I work in health care, I certainly know that there are many diseases, let's just say what to do with a man. A person who's 16, 17 or 30. Then the profession will define who it will send abroad, and at the same time, if we take away that fundamental human right to someone, that we, gentlemen, in front of the people, in front of Europe, in front of the world. We can't. That is why the Democratic Party of Serbia will support the bill and vote unreservedly for it. But let's say once again from this pay phone that very often they told the skeptics that this government would never bring this country into Europe, but here's what this government has done for this short time. They say it's slow, it's slowed down, but in a year and a half, it's the first step towards Europe, it's a feasibility study, and at the same time whether and at what rate we're going to go in other directions towards Europe, ladies and gentlemen, it depends on this Parliament, at which rate we're going to make laws, and only we, in this assembly, will decide when we enter Europe, whether we enter or not. The door to Europe is open to us, and they are opened by this government. We remember well here when it was said by the government, and above all by Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, that we must have two-way co-operation with the international community and the International Court in The Hague. We all know we have to do this. Everyone said -- that this two-way co-operation could be done at all, and that Europe and the world co-nspired against us. But, ladies and gentlemen, we showed it. How? By showing, first of all, that our citizens who were suspected of committing war crimes, and not war criminals, they believed the government, they voluntarily surrendered, and Europe and the world realized that they had a very serious government, a responsible state, and they fought back as they could have fought back -- by letting war crimes suspects go free to defend themselves from freedom. Do you know who the world respects? He respects his citizens, his state and his legal system. So, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you all here to go to work together, to Europe. And this government is no longer pro-European, nor is it pro-European, but European, because it respects European standards.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14729	Thank you, Mr. Miailovich. Please stick to the agenda theme. The word is made by the People's Messenger of Pai Momchilov, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14730	Dear People's MPs, I am advertising Article 97, the first position, where it is said about the misreading of what we Serbian radicals have shown for this speaker. Since the minister has also accepted the controversy with us, which is good, let's be clear to the end. When we talk about private practice, we say-- you need to systematically solve the problem of private practice. When 19 people call you, what does that mean? They're boycotting because that's not good. Of those 3,000, it would certainly be more likely to come up with such a solution. I'll tell you what's wrong. If you want to get that private practice into the system, you didn't do a package of services that you had to define, so that the fund with this package of services competes, both the state sector and the private sector. That's what you should have done, you know it well, and you have to do it when you want to bring these people into the system in a fair way. These people have to have no right to write recipes, they have to have the right to point to a higher territorial level, they have to have the right to suffer and then they're equal. If you didn't want to do it, that's perfectly clear. In the Health Protection Act, you are talking about health institutions and private practice. If someone has an office, private funds invested, real privates work, isn't that a health care facility, for God's sake. It's not. It's something new now, and it can't be. Because there's another thing. I asked Mr. Bubal if we were a socialist, communist or capitalist state. There is no system in transition, it is a transition from socialism to capitalism. That's where we're going. Mr. Bubalo tells me from this place, we're a capitalist country. If we are a capitalist country, the private sector cannot be discriminated against and he must, I have clearly said, according to the solutions that Europe knows, be involved in the system. These kind of partial offers, which are later cast into cartoons, and not only that, but again in crime, I can't. An example of a baro-comora, an indication of a baro-comor, a contract signed above for an Earth hospital, and which exists, the new private owner also has the treatment of sterility. Please, to treat the sterility of the baro-coma is meaningless to talk. We are just talking about it, and colleague Nedeljkovic was talking about it; include in a fair, European way the private sector in the system, do not advocate communism further, it will not be able to survive in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14731	Thank you, Mr. Momchilov. Wait a minute, you'll get the word, just for the record, one correction. So it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I got it all wrong. According to the Rules of Procedure, referring to Article 97 which allows for replication, Mr. Momchilov spoke. Thank you. Here you are, Minister Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14732	Of course, I wouldn't want to compromise on what kind of system we are, where we're going and where we want to go. They need different standards and it's clear to all of us who are high standards. We need, as far as the health system is concerned, a quality criterion as the main, not the ownership criteria. There's only one thing I have to say that's been said here and that's not standing. When it comes to health institutions and private practice, it's not what anyone came up with to write, it's based on the country's existing legal system. When something is an institution, then it works under the Public Service Act, it has to have a board of directors, it has to have a board of supervisors. He's got a completely different procedure based on what he's doing and how he works. What's in that law, and yet we're running out and we're going to talk about it very quickly to the details, what's important, is that the facility can establish any physical or legal person. That means tomorrow you can have a clinical center that creates a physical face, and then the clinical center is an institution, because it's on a list of institutions, and it has to work under a law that implies the existence of an organ, such as the board of directors and supervisors. That's the only reason. I wouldn't go further, I wouldn't go on and on and on, the fact is that from what I think, or someone who thinks differently, it's much more important that in that one institution that has made the contract 26 people go away twice every week and has haemodialysis, and under what conditions, it's known how much it costs, it's known when the contract is concluded, when it expires, under what conditions. This kind of bargaining, quite clearly, is what the Health Insurance Fund and every regulated country need. Are we an orderly country? Not yet, but we do it every day. Now I'd like to paraphrase that drop in the sea; no, I'd rather say a thousand steps, and this is the first. It's small, but we won't do that thousand if we don't go like this and if we don't all let those steps go further without wasting time together. Let's not waste any time, we agreed, Article 27, everyone's in.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14733	The word has the People's MP Nikola Todorovic, and let the MP Vesna Lalic be prepared, if he is there. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14734	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, before I begin the debate on this bill, I'll tell you a short story. The actors of this story are two heroes: driver, incomplete elementary school, committee president and party chief at the time; the time is the beginning of the 1970s, the state of Serbia, Timočka krajina, Zaječar district, settlement, town or town town of Majdanpek; the second hero of the story is doctor, specialist gynaecologist, surgeon, ambitious, at the time young. None of those two heroes from the story are alive and I'm not going to mention names. The head of the party comes to the doctor and says, "Doctor, I've come to agree on how to arrange health care in Majdanpek. "Then the doctor very capable and ambitious, thinks he could say what he said, "I'm a doctor specialist and competent to arrange health care, and you, sir, can drink coffee and juice at my place, and take the wheel in your hands and do your job. "He quickly finished the doctor's story, had to flee abroad. He couldn't have come to the state for 20 years. Interpol had an APB on him, protected by the German government, treated by the Chancellor's wife at the time and showed the world all its readiness and strength. As much as the party had an impact on health care at the time, how much today the political parties in power have an impact on health care, it's just a parallel. Sir says we're going to Europe. We'll go easy to Europe, I don't know how to get out of Majdanpek to Zajechar. The minister of capital investment lifted the train, and the minister of economy fired the workers and we have no salary. Minister Lalovic reduced the fee during the temporary prevention of work, for sick leave, for the base, and then for less compensation. Buses that were then working in the Zajecarski region are now in the process of restructuring, as well as other businesses, and private ones have not yet taken over or are ineffective to them. And it's impossible to ask for health care from the village, and I'm going to have to mention their names, because that's what citizens are looking for. They're so close to Majdanpek, you can't walk for a simple injection, when it's started on Mondays and it takes six or seven injections to receive, and you need to walk, because there's no organised transport, seven, 15, 30 km to an institution called, and it used to be a medical center, and now it's called the Boreal Center department. Not a home of health or an institution to provide sanity or a car and to send a nurse to share those injections with elderly people most often. I deliberately mention the entire health environment in the context of the situation, and the environment, and the environment, and the transition, and everything else, and where you have a case like this: you've lost your job and the bearers and the fosterers of the family. Under the Mandatory Health and Social Insurance Act, at least one of the households from the village, if not provided on the other, must pay mandatory health insurance. They can't, because of their income from agriculture, even though the tax administration has defined one, two dinars, they haven't paid for years. Based on that, the Health Insurance Department won't verify their medical records and make it short of the need for emergency intervention, to drop a child in the yard and get hurt, bleed, and can't ask for medical services, because there's no certified medical book. It is to this extent a difficult situation in villages around Bor, Majdanpek, Negotina that a large number of households are without any medical care. The younger have gone to Italy and are working on black, or another European state. They brought the kids. There are other grandparents, often immobilized, and they can't keep grandchildren, since the younger ones haven't created the conditions to take the children with them if they're young. That's where we have the salasses and the bazaars, as they say in the Vlach area of Timočka, driving children wild because old people, sick and immobilized, are unable to take care of them. The Centre for Social Work, the facility, is poorly equipped, both technically and materially and humanely, and is unable to leave, visit and take care of those children. You won't believe it, very close to Bora, a railroad that no longer works and trains don't traffic anymore, it's not far away, we have wild children that nobody cares about. One more example, I'll tell you in a very short time. I was in one sector's factory when a worker came from another factory and asked for help. The younger woman lost her hearing, on one ear 100%, on another 80%. She needed a hearing aid over there. I had to read all the regulations in the field of health, and I think the law says he's right if it's the basics of insurance and if it's up to the existence of workers, he needs it to help him work, what he's going to live on. That's what the law says. When I insisted, although the worker is from another factory, there is no help from the director, the union does not include, from the Department of Health Insurance in Majdanpek has no understanding, the clerk says - you have no right; not even the submission will not receive, so he will refer to the Commissioner in the Department of Bor or anyone else, to help that woman because it is the basis of its existence, its functioning. She works at the factory, she goes through the drive, she doesn't hear the fork behind her, she almost died, she doesn't hear, just because she doesn't hear. No one's gonna help her. Reading further the rule on how to help with the purchase of these aids, depending on which type, this is a hearing aid, I learned a terrible thing that, although they say by law that they have the right, but the board of directors of that health insurance office, then some decisions that were made two or three years ago, they say they can only make one small sum, they set a base, part of that money to secure the purchase of this aid. Although insisting on seeing where the problem is, I learned that because there are also certain institutions that make and centres have contracts with them, they are getting, that in so far the price of this aid that could be obtained in relation to what the Health Insurance Office provides. Then all my efforts to act humanely were in vain, in the context that a 36-year-old woman would not stop working, to function as a healthy person, to be bought, all of her health insurance had made every effort to prove, quoting all the provisions of the law, regulations and regulations, that she had no right to do so. Let me guess one more time. It's impossible to ask for medical attention from a small community now, because it's expensive to leave and if it's necessary. The doctors said, everyone in the profession, and my story from the beginning is for that reason, not to fall into the trap, because in mining I worked for 30 and a few years, I'm not from the profession, the doctors are talking about my experience, the material opportunity, the equipment of the center and all the problems they've had. I'm speaking from the point of view of customer services and I see that today getting a quality service is very difficult. Only the rich can be treated in environments where you can't get the most basic medical attention when you need it. And especially what one of the doctors has already said, which is the pressure of the health care department on doctors not to sign expensive medicines, although it guarantees short treatment, short treatment and healing, but is being treated using some medicine that damages health otherwise, using some medicine that is not adequate, etc. There's a lot of irresponsibility, corruption in particular. I mentioned a committee, a party, a party organization, for the reason that I was forced to intervene several times in certain cases, following the number of people employed in the economy, trying to reduce their time on sick leave. That's up to 30 days followed by an employer, over 30 states. So why don't so many people, even though they've been sick for a long time, go to work for a disability commission, don't evaluate their health status. The doctor won't accept it when the insurance company, or I don't know what concept to use, the worker, the insurance company or the patient, comes and tells the doctor, I can't work. The doctor says, "I can't, I have to close your stay under the law." The patient's remark that he can't work, that he doesn't feel well, that he should write, sign and refer to the commission. That's not what doctors do. Those who are forced, those who abuse the right to sick leave, they put several euros in the bookbook, get sick and do other jobs, that's evident. They can't even be treated, they can't work, and they're in the hardest situation. I don't know how to help them, how to reduce healthcare corruption. If you at the Health Insurance Office had some agents who would follow those who are sick from the list, you would see that a large number of people really abuse the right to sick, do other jobs. And then it's easy for someone who participates in the Health Insurance Office, along with the medical commission, and when he extends the sick leave to notice that someone who's been sick for another month, and another month, is doing some other job, and that's the basis for not paying him that sick leave, that's the basis for the employer to cancel. And like this, no one's looking at it. I appeal, I know you know it, it's hard to fight all the difficulties, but I'm telling a story because of those people who are truly sick, they can't be treated, because they can't make money, because it's a small salary, because they can't go to a doctor because it's expensive, they're far away medical centers. A bit of a joke, the nurse says - I have to run around the building to measure my load, the ECG under load, because they don't have one center. I went to Zajecar, paid for it, didn't ask for it, I have Belgrade security here, I go to pay for it, it's easier for me to pay for a doctor who has private practice than to go to a state facility, even though among those doctors I have acquaintances of 30 and some years, and I'm a close friend with them. I find it in one reference facility that they don't have paper on a machine that records the heart rate. I paid, I found a piece of paper, I paid for the checkup, I came back because I found out who the good doctor was, I didn't go to any doctor. I left, he did it right, and it's all right. But I have seen that our health centers, our state institutions are falling apart, so doctors dissatisfied with working conditions, unsatisfactory with status, wages, technical equipment, resort to variations to equip their own clinics, and also work in state institutions, working in private institutions, neglecting work in state institutions. The wrong EKG machine, there's no tape, there's no review, and then tomorrow you leave, you have to pay for a doctor's checkup and finish, because your health is the most likely. Only those who can provide money to pay for that review can do that. A lot of people can't. It is easy to go to Europe rich, but from Majdanpek to Bor, Zaječar, from Negotin to Belgrade, there is almost nothing we can come to, because we have nothing to come to and we cannot pay the way for the review. And more expensive therapy to pay, that's a special story.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14735	Minister Milosavljevic. At the same time, I would like to inform you that there are no more registered Members of Parliament who have the time available.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14736	I thank the previous speaker for what he presented as examples from the corner of the user. We're all users, just some right now, some of us will be users, and someone's his user. We have a problem, because we can't be objective enough, we who provide a service, and in one system, where you have those who provide a service, those who use these services every day in different ways and those who pay that service, which is compulsory health insurance, which should be strengthened by payments from the budget, so that they can withstand all the cost for those people who don't have to pay their own health insurance because they are not employed or expelled from their homes, so they were temporarily displaced or had to avoid it. There are different relationships in that system that have to be arranged, that exactly the cause and effect, flow, quality control, type of service, and we'll all agree here together that it's a complicated, complex, very sensitive system, and for us it's unusually important. When the election campaign starts, everyone's mouth is full of health care, health care, care for the health of the population. You were talking about a part of Serbia that the Majdanpek association was a lump of ore in which there were gold and silver, and something was shining. The association on Majdanpek, Bor and Zajecar was Serbia's strength, but the real power of Serbia, which is now missing. But I don't want to give a political speech here and demagogue it now. I just want to tell you people: it's important for the citizens of Serbia when the MP comes to his health care facility, and I ask you from here to go to the prison health center, but as a National MP, and to make sure of what I'm about to tell you. The Zajčar health centre is one of the largest in Serbia. From 2001 to 2004, a total of 5,000 euros in equipment and investment values were in the centre, through the restoration of operating halls, a coronary unit monitor, through diagnostic equipment for cardiology, through endoscopes for diagnosis of malignancies, finally last year through two new ambulances. There are 20 emergency intervention hospitals on the list; because one of the departments, for example, pediatrics, is able not to deserve our children in Zajecar and the environment; there will be most of the money invested, when you share the 50m-euro loan with the number of centres. It will mean to the employees if they see that after the talks in the Assembly, over one member of the law which is undeniable, which is crystal clear, that about it, the minister from one party and the MP from the other party on the case of Zaječar exchanges 10 sentences, where they are very well understood, you and I now speak a fully understood language for you and for me, regardless of whether the other MPs understand what we are talking about. In the Ministry of Health there is a counsellor for the protection of patients' rights, there is also a counsellor for patients' rights in Zajecar, and it is an institution that is new from 2002 or 2003, which is yet to live and which will exist from now on in Serbia's health system, because citizens need to know their rights, which is why we need new rules, and that is why we will have the opportunity to have this constructively you and I, and all together, talk about these laws. Only in the end is one observation regarding your first story about the party and the impact on health; politics is not irrelevant in the life of a society, especially when it is in transition. She can't be crucial, she can't be in charge, she can't be of exclusive importance. In the draft law that will appear before you on the election of directors, it is perfectly clear that it is a proposal to be a competition, to be limited to the length of the term of office and that this length of the term of office can only be repeated twice in parallel, and that the law states that someone can be resolved. So we've stepped back into something that's going to be a debate next week, but that's a good sign, that means you're eager to talk about health care and laws, and I thank you for that, besides being a 27th totally undeniable member. I realized that the first word I said today in the Assembly, which is - the consensus, that word begins to live, and we're really going to have a consensus on this thing, and that's for the citizens of Serbia, who are still at work, a good message.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14737	I ask if, before the principled search is concluded, they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups? Yeah. ) First, Mr. Paja Momchilov, the authorised representative of the SRS, and then Zivodarka Dacin, the authorised representative of the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14738	Dear People's MPs, here we are at the end of this debate that did not last too long, and the great cause is not worth more time, one might say so. What I want to say at the very end. It is a clear view of the SRS MPs that in this flood of laws and non-essential laws, well, we drowned in that, too, we will support this bill, because we generally think it cannot be against it. However, by pointing out ourselves, when you do not create conditions to achieve something, we can express our doubts that you are not well-intentioned when you have proposed such a law. First you have to catch a rabbit and then make a rye and then bake it. You don't have a fire, you don't have a rabbit, you don't have enough money, it's irresponsible, and we're obliged to repeat it in this final word. I wouldn't repeat what was said. It's very important for us to draw your attention that we have an institution here that needs a lot of attention, which is the Security Office. We have stated that there is clear evidence that there is no respect for laws, that there is work outside the law and that there is order to be introduced. Whether you do it or not, it's up to you, but we draw attention to the citizens of Serbia that things don't work right there and that the law isn't respected there. What we have managed to say and draw attention to our public, and I hope to you, too, fully well-intentioned, that you must take into account the fact that Europe, which you are calling upon and in a study that you often honor here, says in opening preambles, therefore, that corruption is a fundamental problem that this society must face and that you also have to open up ways to fight this corruption. In this debate, which was boring to some, some were useful, a clear conclusion came to our attention. So, that you are not a reform government, that you are not in favour of the real reforms that the EU advocates, that you maintain a system that you have criticised fiercely, which has arisen because of sanctions and war conditions, just by installing systemic corruption at all levels, low personal incomes. And, of course, because you understand privatisation in a radical way, that it's a private practice and that it's an advocate for her when I work in my hospital early in the afternoon as a civil servant, and in the afternoon as a private person or I run into 30 different offices to do private practice. It's not privatisation, it's criminal privatisation, it's conflict of interest. It is certain that it can also be allowed to exist and live, if the need for the health of our citizens imposed it, because then we will have no objection. What you don't have and what you didn't have, and before you have to pass these little laws, you have to bring a health care policy based on a health analysis, and then a strategy to see. And let her be brought by the government or your ministry, and then we'll pass the laws. We keep asking you to do so, and you don't keep doing so. In no social segment, and we in the SRS keep repeating, there is no previous basic analysis of the situation on the basis of which national policy follows, the national policy follows the strategy and then legal normation. Here it goes the wrong way, the laws are being fixed, changed, dictated by daily policy, and there are no essential system reforms in health care and institutions. Believe me, you have great dissatisfaction and health care professionals and patients. You say, it's good, it's much better. Let me just tell you about a letter that came to the board, and it came to you. One intellectual, who was treated in one of the top tertiary institutions, says: "In a facility where I was treated there are no pillow pillows on the pillow, there are no. "So in Belgrade, in the middle of Belgrade, I will not appoint an institution, there is no need, because you received the letter. And then he calculated it for you, and it signed five patients, to do two exams a day at that facility. Therefore, they are left to mercilessness, and without professional care and supervision they are during the afternoon and night, and they are severe heart patients. What are we talking about, Mr. Minister? Therefore, SRS lawmakers say in the closing statement, we will vote in favour of this bill, but start solving serious problems and plead clearly, we will not reform that right, because we will not include the private sector. What you've been telling us about the public service law, it's technical stuff. It's about the point. You're going to introduce their system in the right way. Europe tells you, the ones you swear to, that corruption is the main problem, let's see how you see that problem and see the solutions that you want to contain. We don't criticise you for criticism, we give you solutions. Of course, you'll say, we disagree. But, well, Serbian citizens, they will know that they are assessing in some of the next elections, and they will be fully clear on who and why they should vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14739	Here you are, People's Messenger, Long-along Dacin. Allow me, please, it is not correct, according to the Rules of Procedure, what, and what, by the Rules of Procedure, can I help you? No, I'm sorry, we've already spoken, be kind, we've spoken extremely correctly. Allow me, by the way, to thank Mr. Momchilov for his support and I assume that the Committee of the Assembly will request that he take another closer look at the analysis that the minister, i.e. the Ministry, ordered on the state of health which was completed two years ago, and which joins this joint fight against corruption. Here you go, Mr. Avramov, tell me according to the Rules of Procedure - what?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14740	It's a business thing. I wanted to take advantage of the opportunity while the minister is here, because he has a very burning problem in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14741	Just name a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14742	I'll be very brief. JKP "Vodovod" Shid: "This informs you that the JKP "Vodovod" Shid is facing a serious problem due to the lack of chlorine because the company "Zupa" Kruševac, as the only producer, is on strike for more than two months. The same problem is all public-communal enterprises for water production and distribution in the Republic of Serbia. In April of this month, we took all the activities around the purchase of chlorine via the importer Patentin DOO from Belgrade, which was to obtain and deliver chlorine to this company by May 10th, which he did not, and he informed us that the required amount of chlorine, which we paid in advance, cannot be delivered for at least twenty days. So if we don't borrow a minimum amount of chlorine within two days, we'll be forced to declare drinking water technically, so please help this JKP solve the problem of obtaining chlorine. As you are also a National MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I ask you to meet the authorities responsible for solving this problem. "I think this is a really burning problem. Namely, I've come to the knowledge that 70 water lines in 70 municipalities use this bottle system. It's about 3.5 million people, who will be forced to declare water by technical water, because it won't be for drink. There's a health minister, bacteria lie in the water, and water will be unusable. Please update that, the problem will be in northern Serbia, the problem will be in southern Serbia, where floods will also bring down wells and epidemics. So the chlorine will be necessary. There is a case in the municipality of Kula, where the excess arsenic was found, which may be even more dangerous, etc. I thank you, President, for giving me your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14743	I thank you for warning the authorities, although once again I ask you to do it the intended way next time. The minister is here, tell him and he will, of course, take appropriate measures. This, by the way, wasn't according to the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure explicitly say that an MP from your MP group cannot give you the opportunity to replicate. He didn't call you personally. Not in the cities. You're the president of The Tower Community. We work here according to the Rules of Procedure and the parliamentary groups. The word is from MP Zivodarka Dacin, authorised representative of the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14744	Dear President, Mr. Minister, dear fellow MPs, you can see that only one member of the Health Insurance Act has been invited to a series of stories they have little to do with health care, we've gone through The Hague and the Performance Study until this member is changed, we've talked a little bit about everything and everything. There are two opportunities: or the President of the Assembly no longer needs to give us such a long break, so we wished for speakers and stories, or what else I wish it were a fact, which is that we all look forward to that reform and the laws that have been announced a few years ago. Okay, Tomislav Nikolic, but now you're in opposition. The Socialists will go into power and then it'll be the best government. There was even talk of what kind of government this is, that it's really bad. I would say that this government is not bad at all and, of course, it would be much better and it would be the best when socialists participate, because we just have a lot more experience. So, I'd like to say that obviously all this story is perhaps a good guess, so there will be fewer stories at the next sessions, that the sooner they come to the agenda, the sooner these two system laws on health care and health insurance. And it is absolutely not disputed for us that they should go in parallel to the procedure, because simply as long as it is not defined how much the country's health insurance per capita is so far, it seems to me that we will not be able to identify which extent of Serbia's state of health can provide to its citizen at the moment. It's hard, but we have to deal with it. We've heard from several speakers and from Mr. Minister that here, in fact, only age changes, there are no more limits. In order not to talk about what will be said tomorrow in the newspaper on the front pages - Serbian citizens, please, you can treat yourself abroad, it is clear that only if there is a medical indication and if there is no institution in the country of Serbia that can help the patient, then it will be possible, regardless of age, to go and seek help outside our country's borders. I would like us to look at this differently and vice versa, which is that these resources, which are minor, are not so much needed, but that the state of Serbia, the government and, of course, our resolution minister, make so much effort to educate, and otherwise we have great experts in various areas of health, that technological equipment and then we are qualified as a country to treat not only the citizens of our country, but to reverse the story, so that from around countries they come to us for healing. Why not? I think it's a time we've known, and we remember it's been before, and why don't we build our future on it. Of course, the objective situation in which our country is located, as a country in transition, is very difficult, and this is an economic situation and these are the facts that we cannot escape from. Today in the country of Serbia, two million people from their profits stand out for treatment, while eight million have the right to health care and should have. The state of Serbia must provide for every citizen to have an absolutely equal treatment for everyone and everyone. This is what the Socialists have always advocated and will always welcome any change in the law that will contribute to the man, the citizen of our country, and especially the patient. Truth be told, we can talk, but without improving the economy and standards, we can't even improve the health situation. Secondly, the Socialists have always advocated that this health care be free, but it is obvious that at the moment when our country is in transition, we are not as a state of power to enable our citizens. If we had discussed health care and health insurance reform laws today, then we would, but when these laws are on the agenda, we must say openly and clearly that this health care package is free of charge for Serbia to provide every citizen of this country, and everything beyond that in certain conditions, participations or whatever. Furthermore, it has been spoken here on several occasions, biding on how much it stands out in the country for the treatment of our population. I know it was almost only 50 euros, really very little, and I would say at least. We have heard data from both sides, and yet I have some data that approximately 140 to 160 euros per capita treatment. That's what's real, that's 300 percent or three times what it was, but still not enough. If we re-analyze the countries of our former old Yugoslavia, they are still the closest to us, let's say Croatia stands out four times as much at the moment, and Slovenia is even 10 times more, and given that Slovenia was our republic, which was a rapper in that old Yugoslavia, I would like it to be a rapper for us today, at least as an example of a country in transition in which all these reforms have passed and in the area of health, and they had good experience and good laws. I would be very happy and pleased that next year at this time we have that standard and we say - the country of Serbia is now the one that has increased the isolation of its population by 10 times. Of course, there can be no mention of this very difficult situation that objectively exists in health care. We, in communication with the directors of health institutions, heard that in 2004, compared to 2003, there was one shift, but negative; in fact, the current material costs increased by 75%. It's really not a question. Personally, as a man who works in health care for so many years, I can never believe that health care can do business with loss, because healthcare covers every single single favor by helping its citizen. Of course, the problem is the systemic, disorientation of things, that this loss will always remain in health care institutions, not on what needs to be provided by those funds, which is the Fund, the state and our branches down there. You know, for 30 years, this story is that the Fund must always be some protected animal, that it has to finish its annual business with a positive zero, and all these losses are transferred to health institutions. That's right today. (President: Time. President, I have 20 minutes. (President: 10 minutes in the final part. Here you go. Finish it. That's how it was then. I think that should be changed and that we should say that we have exactly that much money and that health institutions contracts with health funds are not signed at the beginning of the year for that year, if there is no real possibility of providing that money by a republican pricer who is the official valuer for which this state and this government are likely to give the green light. So these are some problems that aren't just on these relationships. It simply encourages all of us to think about regulating the situation and better functioning of the health care system in our country. Of course, when it comes to this change, the Socialists will absolutely vote for it. We have an open dilemma and to say that this is exactly what the law explains - means to implement. I will quote only one part: "For the implementation of this law in 2005, there is no need to provide additional funds, since they are already foreseen." However, even on the Health Committee, we calculated that it was around 720,000 euros. That doesn't matter, that fictitious amount. I would say that it is impossible not to provide additional funds here, because these funds are planned at a time when this member, which has not been amended today, has not been changed yet, but fortunately it will be changed, that it should make efforts, when the budget is rebalanced, that the minister has not yet been amended by his authority, that the government understands the situation and help, and in parallel, in two directions. So, not only do they increase funds and enable everyone, unless they have the opportunity to get the cure in their country, that they can get beyond the borders, but also in this other direction, that there is a parallel education of healthcare professionals, that there is a real need for those objective medical indications, that these patients are sent outside our country's borders. I have, personally, as a People's MP, one great pleasure that, after the resolution on Kosovo, for which we are absolutely all unanimous, this will be the only thing that we will have absolute consensus on, that all 250 MPs in voting day will vote for this change. I think it's a good message first of all to our citizens, a good message and a lesson for all of us, that's how we should do it. We should also face our opinions on the Assembly committees and here to fight, but to keep it all in the interest of the citizens, especially when it comes to the area of health. You will admit that all laws are very important to us, everything is very important to us in life, but for either of us there can be nothing more than health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14745	The word has the deputy president of the G17 plus Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14746	I would like to take the opportunity, at the end of this debate, to transfer to the MPs, Mr President, Mr Minister and the public of Serbia the position of the G17 Group plus on this law. First, I want, as well as a colleague who spoke before me, to express great satisfaction with the fact that this law, I hope, will be adopted unanimously in the Assembly. It is indeed a great pleasure to all of us, but I must conclude that, unfortunately, today's debate has been used, above all, to discuss the state of health and criticism of the Ministry of Health, which I think was really possible to do at some other opportunity. Let's go back to the law that we all agreed on. The law is good, well-intentioned and it will bring well-being to the citizens of Serbia. In the case of this law, there's something else I'd like to point out, that's something we're not talking about right now. I think this is one of the laws, I can only say since I have been an MP in this assembly, who has indeed been adopted and whose initiative came directly from the citizens of Serbia, not even through MPs who are their representatives. Indeed, the initiative came from people who had a problem and whose children were, unfortunately, 15 years old and several months or 16 years old. I can be pleased to tell you that part of the MPs also took part in this whole story, because the whole initiative happened by reading an article called "Law More Important Than the Life of a Child". Today I am pleased to say that the laws, fortunately, are not more important than the lives of children. That was the title that encouraged me and the MPs G17 plus, of course, we also invited our good associate Mrs. Dacin. That same day, we invited the father of the little girl that we were talking about. Of course, we wanted to hear what the problem was. We heard a story about a girl who can't get her treatment right because she's more than 16 years old. Of course we couldn't promise that moment of treatment, but what we promised, and what we said, is that we will all pledge that the law that puts this kind of restriction is changed and that, of course, what is our second function, we will be mediators to the citizens in contact with the Ministry of Health, that we will ensure contact with the Minister and that the Ministry of Health will do everything in their power to treat this child abroad. I really don't want to use this for marketing purposes. I don't think that's necessary. On that occasion, all MPs attending the conversation asked the gentleman concerned not to use it at any time, in any public appearance. That's how it happened. Some others have been involved, I must say, but the MPs who attended and helped this family have not spoken of it so far. Today I want to say this not for marketing reasons, but because I want to draw on a good practice that is possible, which is a practice for Serbian citizens to change the laws for their own benefit by means of MPs and executive authorities. That's what we did today and for all of you, including the Ministry of Health, thank you. Whether the Ministry of Health works well or not, the topic is for another day. I have been called directly by some other MPs on many occasions, and I need to answer that question. True, poverty in Serbia is greater than we wanted, and it is true, corruption in Serbia is significantly higher than we would like. It's probably a lot higher in health care than we'd like. I think that everyone who wants to think seriously about these phenomena is that they're phenomena that don't occur overnight and that these are phenomena that we all have to change together from the root, as they did -- long and persistent. I have to answer, I'm gonna try for a little while, to have G17 plus favor their health staff. That's not true. I'm not very good at math, but if I said that out of 290 barely twenty directors are headed by health care institutions, then it certainly can't be 20%, but something below 10. Why are they where they are? Not because they did good before, but because they did bad things. Are they doing all right? We can talk about their results based on numbers, and here are some numbers. I'll tell them about Leskovac, 'cause I'm from Leskovac. The leadership has come up with the following situation - 124.989.000 and still debts towards suppliers. Within nine months, these not only new purchases were regularly serviced, but debts were reduced to 110 million. So somewhere near 15 million reduced debts. Furthermore, as regards the costs of the team, which were 456,000 for 2003, in this year and nine months of new management, respectively, were reduced to 200,000. So more than double. As for the savings in the funds, the funds spill over the name of the refund, in the first six months of 2004, there were 8254,000 dinars, and now it's 20 times smaller. For the first three months, it's only 230,000. So these are the results we can talk about. And we can talk about how happy patients are with these results. I do not think it is mentioned during today's debate that the Ministry of Health is constantly following patient satisfaction with the work of health institutions in Serbia and that we have very clear and exact results. Public opinion studies may not be exactly what gives the relevant results and data on this. I'm going to tell you again about Leskovac, that is, the impudent hospital. When asked -- how many problems did you have to get a place in the hospital, 96.3% of the patients answered that the hospital had a place with no problems at all. This may also be the answer to the extent of corruption. If you have no problems, then you do not need to use additional resources to solve these problems. When asked - what was your doctor's relationship to different patients, 95.7% replied that the doctor did not make a difference among patients. To the question - to what extent are you satisfied with the work of your doctor, 91.4% replied that, according to their assessment, a good expert, and the question of overall satisfaction with the treatment at the hospital, 88% replied that they were completely satisfied with this treatment. And, just for a little while, I'm going to say the results for the children's and youth health care services, where the question is -- how often do you wait for a pediatrician to receive you, 53.1% replied that there are only 10 minutes waiting for the reception, and 35% to wait about half an hour, which makes 90% of those who wait less than half an hour for the pediatrician's reception. When asked -- are you satisfied with your pediatrician, 86% are completely satisfied, and 0.4% responds that it is very unsatisfactory, 2.3% is relatively unsatisfactory. (Glass - in what country? ) In the country of Serbia, in Leskovac city, you can check, the results are accurate and clear. So, we'll talk about this more when the topic is government and the work of the Ministry of Health, and now I really want to welcome once again the initiative of the Ministry of Health and the strength of all of us to adopt this law. Because why are we in such a hurry? In the end, I want to answer that question. We're in a hurry because a large number of children, who go 15 years, are 16, 17 or 18, are waiting for that right now. This law has been in the process for months. In a few months, a large number of children in Serbia could have achieved this right. Why didn't that happen? Because we've extended this session indefinitely. Because we don't know when the next session will be on the agenda and because the system laws we all stand for are waiting for that order. I appeal once again to hurry, to work more efficiently, for the benefit of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14747	Thank you, and as all MPs know, because the President of the Assembly is holding his word, the next session will be immediately, the next day after this session is over, and so will the Rules of Procedure. Replication to your presentation, Mr. Paja Momchilov. Here you go. I guess those questions were about you, you recognized the content.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14748	Yeah. The honourable MPs in a small number, it's interesting, the colleague started with how this was used to miss out on the subject, to talk about something else, and then we heard some information from the locals. It's just a max failure. We have been trying to systematically present a problem for all of Serbia. You're giving us information for Leskovac. Maybe it's true. But you didn't say the source, the publication, you didn't say the year, so let's believe you. We trust good witnesses, but more evidence. The evidence was materialized, a written publication, so we say it is, and dentists said it was an extraordinary service, and they wrote it themselves and filled out the questionnaires. We know about those cases, too. Now, as far as math is concerned, and that only prompted me to go out for a pay phone, I loved math because it's a matter of logic, and you should know, you said 290 is an institution, and 60 was a change; 60 versus 290 is 20% to you. That's what I said, dear colleague. Well, you didn't understand, you didn't hear, and I didn't even get into the number of doctors from your party who were directors of those institutions. And I said that certain solutions, so I led them, and how they cause problems, bitterness, both colleagues and health users, our citizens. That's what I need to tell you, so we understand each other clearly. So you resent us for discussing the system, then praise the system when it suits you. You took one partial area, one region as an example, and then you still have to be consistent. And as far as math goes, believe me, I wasn't wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14749	Thank you. Of course, we also support the current practice of the Minister of Health that those personnel, who are shown to be bad, are immediately shifted. Now I'm concluding a principled search. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the proposal in particular. Since amendments have not been submitted to the bill before I conclude the search in particular, I ask if the proposing representative, Minister Milosavljevic, wants the final word. Can I have your patience, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14750	I'm not going to be over-exploited, but the propo system and the system view, due from this place, to say the following. Of course the Republic of Serbia has adopted a health policy. The government of the Republic of Serbia, in its previous term of office, adopted a position on health policy in February 2002. On this basis, the Health System Reform Strategy was adopted in the first half of 2003, with an action plan by 2015. The work at the Ministry of Health, in the government, in the past year, since March 2004, has been a continuity in the Ministry of Health since half of 2002, and therefore we can say that this year Serbia is welcoming with sectoral strategies, which have been adopted after a broad debate and participation of a large circle of experts. One of them is a strategy against HIV-AIDS infection. The second strategy is to fight tuberculosis. The third is -- a framework convention was signed on the control of tobacco by the World Health Organisation, which awaits ratification in the state union parliament of Serbia-Montenegro, followed by a public health strategy, in which we opened the first public health school in Belgrade. No strategy can survive unless it has an action plan and has no results. I'll finish the exposure by mentioning some results. In the last 12 years, 31 babies were born in Serbia who were HIV-positive at birth because the mother was HIV-positive without knowing before pregnancy. By implementing one of the important elements of the action plan against HIV-AIDS, which is called preventing a vertical transmission of disease from positive mothers to babies, because today there are medicines that are possible, if given in time, to ensure a reliable delivery of a healthy baby. In the first six months of implementation of this programme, four babies in Serbia were born without HIV being positive, no matter what mothers were without knowing it before pregnancy. These are the first results of something you implement as a strategy and as an action plan. Otherwise, the law never obliged either the Serbian Parliament or the Government to bring a health care strategy, and we will all discuss together a proposal for a new law in which we make it a commitment. We say there will be a council for the health of the Republic of Serbia, which will have one year's longer term than the mandate of MPs, who will have an obligation to propose a strategy for at least ten years. Everything I've counted as strategies binds us and needs to bridge political me. Whoever is in the government, in the Assembly, the ministry, has to carry out a strategy against HIV AIDS to give birth to more babies and to get 69,000 pregnant women offered to be confidentially and voluntarily tested on HIV, and to be able to have a child who will be HIV negative. A survey of 29,000 treated citizens in Serbia's hospitals in all areas was conducted on the occasion of systematic remarks in November 2004. She implemented a network of the Institute of Health Care, led by the National Institute "Milan Jovanovic - Batut" and when you ask citizens if you are satisfied with what you experienced in the hospital, indeed 40 percent say – very pleased, 40% says – satisfied. I'm not saying that the situation is ideal and that it is excellent, but I say that the subjective assessment of the satisfaction that existed in Serbia's health system is an annual practice. The results can be found at the Institute for Health Protection of the Republic of Serbia's "Milan Jovanovic - Batut". On the grounds of the pillowcase. The minister can't go and change every pillow, the minister can't run hot water where he needs to, the minister can, as he did, analyze every maternity home and realize that 40% of Serbian maternity homes in January 2005 and December 2004 cannot open a window. If the minister needs to come and open every window, paint it, wash it, teach the nurses, the nurses, the doctors to wash their hands, then we missed the subject. This should not be done by the minister or the ministry, but should change the rules and establish control, order, so if so, as happened in 2003, that women who are pregnant at 100,000 births die eight. Eight women die in connection with pregnancy, and then each of those cases in that maternity ward must be carefully examined and personal responsibility established. If C hepatitis occurs as an epidemic, then it is responsible for handwashing and unhygiene and a lack of doctrine within the waist, and therefore the waist is responsible for such failure. Because if two years in the focus of the health ministry's priorities is the health care of mothers and children, and this year it's all over the world under the World Health Organization's motto, let's make every mother and child equally treated. There must also be personal, direct responsibility, and institutional, of course and responsibility of the Ministry, and government and Assembly, just to know what is the task of which and how it is carried out. So much for pillowcases. In the end, I'd really like to take advantage of this privilege that's undeserved, to tell you now that you can't replicate, although I'm glad that you can't replicate. I want to thank everyone because today's debate has really shown something that is a common spirit. We have a problem and this problem is called – it is not normal to decide to send in exceptional cases only on the basis of those 15 years; it does not matter whether there are three months there or here, it is an important medical indication. This will be a huge challenge for the profession, for experts who will struggle to make a list of priorities and stand behind it. This job of course must be completely open, like everything we've done so far, and it will be. The laws we're talking about, the chamber, the security, the security, we'll sit down for 30 days and nights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14751	Thank you. I must appreciate the great satisfaction that all MP groups will vote in favour of this law, and as has been said many times. At the same time, the legislative authority is fortunately the fundamental authority in this country and MPs have the right and now to replicate you, Mr. Minister, and it is decided by the President of the Assembly, as he had just decided, so in one case he allowed, and in one case he did not. Now, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. Thank you all for understanding. I'm taking a break until 3:45. Thank you. [[After break – 16/25]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we continue our afternoon work today's session. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE TURISM (principles) 114 MPs are present, according to official record. Please determine the quorum. I ask Members to insert their cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. At the same time, I'm passing the apology. The minister is on his way. He called while he was on his way and we expect him to enter the congregation any minute. I'm guessing we have a quorum. You have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović, Dusan Petrovic, Svetlana Stojanović, together Milan Ninić, Sanja Čeković, Blagica Kostić and Staniša Stevanović, Dragan Vuksanovic, Branko Bosnjak, Natasa Jovanovic, Veroljub Arsic, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Antic, Dragoljub Stamenković, Momir Marković, Milorad Mirčić, Milko Glisić, Zlatan Jovanovic, Ljubomir Kragović, Zoran Krasic, Zoran Krasic, Branislav Rankić, Nemanja Šarović, Dragan Čolic, Miljko Čević, Milovan Radovanovic, Rodoljub Gačević, Tomislav Pevezić, Zlatko Radić, Zlatko Radić, Radić, Radić, Radiša Ilic, Radić, Sredo Perić, Sreto Perić, Sreto Perić, Petar Jojan and Zrandević. You received notice from MP Svetlana Stojanovic to withdraw amendments she submitted to the article. 6, 17, 22, 26, 31, 46 and 50. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Trade and Tourism and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time for debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour three minutes and 36 seconds, the Democratic Party - Boris Tadic – 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus – 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Serbian Renewal Movement - New Serbia – 21 minutes 36 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes 24 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, four SPP MPs and three SDP MPs and one independent MP, five minutes each, on the basis of Article 89(3). Rules of Procedure. At the same time, I would like to inform you that representatives are authorized for this agenda point: ahead of the SRS, Natasa Jovanovic, in front of DSS Arsen Djuric, in front of DS Aleksandar Radosavljevic, in front of G17 plus Branka Bosnjak, in front of the SPS parliamentary group Rajko Baralic. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Since the proposer's representative is still traveling, do the committee's rapporteurs want a word? Committee on Trade and Tourism – Rajko Baralić, chairman of the Committee? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14753	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Committee on Trade, Tourism and Services has considered practically three times the proposal for a tourism law because, for reasons unknown, the tourism law has been withdrawn twice from the assembly procedure. Also, I would like to say that in the context of a project that was recently implemented in collaboration with the OSCE, the Tourism Committee discussed the proposal for a tourism law. I want this opportunity to point out one problem that other committees have, I mean a total of six. The Committee on Tourism, Services and Trade in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has no so-called The government's majority. It is necessary to overcome this problem. Namely, the Committee numbers 11 members, of which the MPs of the SRS and DS have four plus two, so six, and the parties forming or supporting the Government have five members of the Trade, Tourism and Services Committee. Although the Committee has held 10 sessions so far, and I thank the MPs for the collegiacy and others who have helped the Committee function normally, I would ask that this issue be discussed, it is about some other committees, and to provide for congregation working bodies, committees to function normally. It is not possible that a committee works in quality unless it can begin its work for a simple reason that parties that do not support the government or are not in the government will not give a quorum or do not want to make known about some of the legal projects or reports of the ministry. It makes it difficult to work, complicated our situation and our position. In that sense, I ask you, Mr. President, to ensure that with the heads of the parliamentary groups, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Assembly committees reflect the structure of the government's majority, so that the committees can carry out their duties uninterruptedly. Of course, MPs of opposition parties do what they, according to the Rules of Procedure, are at their disposal and no one is angry at them at this time, I just find out what this is all about. So that's what I wanted to say. Nevertheless, this bill has received the necessary support on the Committee, which I thank my fellow Members of Parliament, which is not the case with the Committee when it comes to protecting competition, we will talk about this when the law comes to the agenda. As far as the law itself is concerned, I will say more about him when I speak as an authorised representative of the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14754	Does the president of the Legislative Committee want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Please, first MP Natasa Jovanovic, authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14755	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although Mr. Trade and Tourism Minister is not present here, he could, on three occasions, hear the opinion I delivered on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group. I just need to supplement what the chairman of the Committee of Resolution, Mr. Baralic, has said in support of how long this law has been waiting to enter the assembly procedure, that is, to discuss it today. In fact, Mr Baralic, as chairman of the Committee, insisted that we discuss the bill, and that was in September 2004. From that original version, that first meeting, attended by the followers of the tourist area, I am primarily referring to colleagues from our largest national association, from JUTA, to the bill that we received next month, that is, in October, nothing has changed, in terms of the government's position on certain issues that we have raised as crucial in our denial of such a bill. When a session was called in November with a large agenda, there was also a proposal for a tourism law on the agenda; it happened because of the poor functioning of the assembly majority and because of the fact that you are approaching the end of the year, that you are in a tight spot with time, and you had to adopt the budget, that the law was withdrawn from the procedure. If that was the case, then the resolution ministry should have changed one part of the reasoning left in this bill. In a part of the explanation, it says that the law is urgent, that it should improve the tourism economy, the overall tourist area in our country and that it is necessary to adopt it before the winter tourist season starts. We are on the verge of the summer tourist season (some, and I see some members of the government, have done well, have used this preliminary holiday in these holidays), and the law is just before us now. Although this is a close area for me, I would really like to discuss some other issues because I think that for citizens in Jasa Tomic and other places in Banat, it is a very important and key question of what the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing when it comes to helping the most vulnerable. If the government wasn't able to provide five or more thousand pairs of rubber boots to help that people, if this aid comes slowly, at least, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, it is a degutant that we are talking here today about a single business branch that is in the right sense a word for a huge number of Serbian citizens, and so everywhere in the world, in countries with developed economy and standards, is a luxury. We could talk about tourism if this law was not, in the right sense, to improve the tourism economy of a dead letter on paper and it would give guarantees to us as MPs and at all to all those who expect to find employment in the tourist branch that, in the coming period, it would be the product of adopting such a law, provide many tens of thousands of jobs. There are exact data for Southeast European countries, in some partnership with Greece, and with countries in the west, with tourism-developed Spain, Italy, there is France, too, as much as it needs funds in this initial accumulation of capital, when it comes to tourism, in order to secure a number of jobs. Given our standard of living, the high unemployment and percentage of women's unemployment in relation to the total number of unemployed in Serbia, and 980,000 of them, the people who dealt with this, and above all from the Faculty of Economics of Kragujevac, through various studies they made in this regard, came to the conclusion that one billion US dollars invested in tourism would bring 120,000 new jobs. Of course, Serbian citizens can't even dream of an investment of billions of US dollars, because those big business systems that are waiting to be restructured, as the previous DOS furniture has decided, are now in a position to observe what is happening to those, conditionally speaking, more developed industries, than tourism is today. All people who follow tourism both in our country and in the world must agree with the assessment that this economic branch, primarily because of its seasonal character and because of certain negative influences here in Serbia, can have a depressing character for overall economic growth. If you look at the situation in the Serbian hotel industry – today the annual tourism stock exchange in Serbia – if you look at Banjska tourism, recreational tourism, the state of our hospitality, you will all agree with the assessment that the systematic collapse of the economy, which was particularly expressed through robbery and any privatisation in the last few years, has contributed to the fact that a business branch such as tourism is further collapsing, that these negative effects are being thrown to the surface, that is to say that the number of unemployed in tourism is increasing rather than reducing. What did the proposer in this law give us, which does not agree with the SRS parliamentary group? These are the provisions of laws that only, conditionally speaking, harmonize the tourist area with other developed countries; a tourism development fund is created, whose character and manner of business are not acceptable to the SRS, and for all other people who would claim to receive assistance for the development of their tourism programme, i.e. the project, because this fund, which is made up of this kind of management body, is also a space for manipulation. You know the position of the Serbian Radical Party when it comes to any agency or the establishment of any new fund. Here, I'll compare it to the fund that the Government of the Republic of Serbia established for our troubled countrymen in Kosovo and Metohija. You have seen that the effect of the action carried out by the SRS is only the first phase, through the help of children in primary and secondary schools and through the donation of 100 computers, i.e. the entire school configuration, is much greater than the overall effect of what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. We who were there and visited the Serb enclaves, visited the villages of Prilužje and Plemetina, of course we couldn't come with the story that there was a session on the agenda behind the Easter holidays and Djurđevdan, the tourism law, because it would be, at the very least, an insult to those people. They haven't had electricity in four months, they don't have food, they don't have basic resources and they don't have the ability to educate their children. If this law should only represent a framework, but it is not well defined, then let's look at what the future responsible authority, which I only claim will be radical, should pay attention to the development of tourism in Serbia. At the first meeting, when we discussed the draft tourism law, there were major objections from distinguished colleagues, exceptional experts, first of all the owners of the country's leading tourist agency, two agencies, and then the director of JUTA Mr. Stankovic, to the fact that JUTA, as an institution in the right sense of the word, is not represented in the administrative body of the Serbian Tourist Organisation. Then, for us, if the promoter wanted to arrange the tourist area, it was unacceptable to give us an explanation on our amendment that not everyone should be punished in the chain of tourist offer, that is to say, to carry out conventions if there is a non-compliance with the contract. And, on the other hand, the other amendments, concerning travel insurance policy, and it says -- for every trip, we will discuss this when there is debate in particular, for tourist agencies, here are later accepted, but the compromise solution offered by a group of MPs gathered around Vuk Draskovic, or SPO (because for these others there is no idea what they are), because in the meantime there has been a party, or internal consensus of these fellow MPs with Mr. Minister. So these were not their original amendment proposals, or reactions to individual members, but were done by the SRS and its MPs, as Mrs Pop-Lazic, because one amendment refers to her proposal, Mr Nemanja Sarovic, counterpart Darko Glisic and all those who are identical to the amendments of this group that have been accepted. In fact, it shows that the minister did not show, which proved to be through discussion on committees, flexibility in this sense, and especially when at the JUE meeting, in September of the month, from two leading tourist agencies known as tour operators in our country; he very badly welcomed our remarks, not realizing that they come from the profession and that these are really the real problems that tourist agencies have in their business. (President: Are you using another ten minutes? Yeah, I'll use it. We felt it was necessary for every manipulation or improvisation to be strictly sanctioned in the chain of tourist offerings. You're familiar with cases, unfortunately, some of them are tragically completed, when it comes to some quasi carriers, when it comes to organisers, above all, to our youth, and abroad, that there have been a lot of ruthless events. Therefore, the intensity of the SRS parliamentary group was that the amendments that we have submitted to the bill define which company is the entity, the legal entity that can deal with organising a tourist trip. When it comes to the amendment to Article 54, which was submitted by a respected colleague, Milorad Mircic, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, we went so far as to define through the proposal a brand-new member, i.e. an addition with an existing member, what is required to do by the travel agency in the field of travel organisation. Believe me, all of what we have stated, or my colleague Mircic, in points 1) to (6), comes from the problems that tourism agencies in Serbia have today. The colleagues who are highly professionally involved, who are under difficult circumstances, under the unprecedented sanctions that our country had, weakened power and energy to safely, professionally, very correctly organise travel in the country and abroad, know that something like this is necessary, and the minister simply disobeyed it and did not want to accept it. He made a general impression with SRS MPs, members of the Committee on Tourism, that Mr. Minister, who did not arrive at the time, at the beginning of the debate, and waited eight months for the law to come into his procedure, had appeared several parties, i.e. with some animosity when it came to our parliamentary group, although six months after that it had been processed, but essentially the same amendments of other colleagues belonging to his party had accepted. It is their right to bear it, but only enough to know that these were our basic objections from the very beginning. Serbia, with all the problems it has, cannot say that the main priority is to develop tourism in general. But when it comes to local self-government units, when it comes to the district (or what some like to call it - the region, because it is not, in the administrative sense, only the continent is rounded up), especially in the central part of Serbia and in the Banj and climate areas, these people have big problems because in the full tourist season they could employ a large number of those who are jobless, mostly female labour. Because, apart from the management function, working in tourism, above all in catering, there is no need for a special qualification, and that would also benefit these women, but why not young men or young men who are jobless. Here it is actually going to be that through the privatisation that has been carried out, primarily certain hotel and catering companies, capable people, with decades of persistent and diligent work in the field of tourism and hospitality, are being thrown out into the street and there is no work for them today. Of course, we can't say that the Adriatic Sea is going to be placed in Shumadi or Vojvodina, or that it will cross the Danube through Arangelovac, but we know that any country that seeks to develop, any area that has developmental opportunities, but that it is responsible, of course, for the government (shown by radicals in municipalities where they came to power), can do projects for its environment and thus improve employment. However, it is obvious that the government of the Republic of Serbia has not heard enough about those projects that have been waiting for several years. Branislav Dudic, an tourism inspector in the Shumadi County, submitted a request for categorisation in the area of the Shumadian district as early as 2001 when it comes to rural tourism. A lady who is a professor at the Faculty of Economics in Kragujevac did many years ago, along with a group of her students, when the Department of Tourism was open at the university, a study of what Šumadija can, with its cultural, ethnic and all other characteristics, offer as a tourist product. But to this day there is no answer from the ministry, or the previous one led by Milosavljevic, or the one led by Dimitrijevic. Also, you remember that in that meeting that I was talking about at the beginning of the debate, there was also a proposal for a ski law. I can tell you that the law since the Serbian Radical Party took part in the government, when Cerovic was Minister of Tourism; to this day there is no agenda. As far as tourism organisations are concerned, and this is potential in reason, urgency and necessity of the adoption of this law, I will tell you something that is completely devastating for tourism in general, and the town of Kragujevac. The minister will say it has nothing to do with the Ministry or the Government, but let him wonder why. The tourist organisation Kragujevac, believe it or not, with only six employees in central Serbia, in a town that marks this year, as these Stevanovics declared, a year of constitution and theatre, does not receive a single dinar from the Kragujevac City Assembly budget. This should go to the soul of Veroljub Stevanović and the new city government who had no ear for it, but have been deaf to the demands of colleagues who have not been paid for months, supported by famous êsumadinca′′, or those sculptures, larger or smaller, which some of you may have in their cabinets or brought as a memory from an ethno-center. Is it normal, when the development of regional tourism and economy is even promoted by Mr Dimitrijevic or any other minister, that in such a state and with such opportunities, which these people really have, because they are experienced in their work, they cannot express them, because they have no help from anyone. We did not have an acceptable solution at all, and Mr. Minister knows this from the previous three discussions on committees, concerning the possibility of organising a trip and underlining a union or recreational journey that could organize any association, union or people who are ignorant of the job, and that this trip takes several days. I cannot speculate whether the parliamentary majority, and the government and the minister did so, will accept an amendment identical to the amendment of the SRS, which was submitted by a group of MPs mentioned earlier, because our goal was... (President: Time. I'm done. We will also have the opportunity to talk a lot about the bill in particular or, eventually, in replicas. In fact, our goal was to enable the work of people who are highly humanised, who do this job in quality work and who are willing to, if they make a mistake, really carry the consequences, but to be the same archaic for everyone. It was unacceptable for us, and then we submitted the amendment. However, I say, an amendment to the same text was accepted, but submitted by other MPs, although it came months later. I've already told Mr. Minister that a tourist branch or any other job done by any minister in the Republic government, but apparently it's the manner of all ministers, it can't be for short-term purposes. Mr. Minister, take the Greater Serbia, the latest edition, you can look at it later. (President: And you bring the end of your exposure. ) I asked Mr. Minister, believe me, this is the only time I haven't gone to the tourist market in the last 14 years, or at a tourism fair in Belgrade, why it's written on the invitation that the tourism fair (or else, the director of the fair is also a member of the SPO) will open someone who bids on a royal throne. They wrote, imagine – his Majesty the Crown Prince Alexander Karadjordjevic. It's not possible! Then he told me -- you know, the fair can open any other citizen. That's nice, Mr. Minister, but you won't be at that opportunity, I'm telling you, the next year when there's a tourism fair in Belgrade, so none of you, or that Trpkovic, or you can strut there, or anyone who doesn't know how to speak Serbian. (President: Time. ) You will observe how this will be done by the future minister, or government to be led by the SRS. Not only will Branislav Dudic, a colleague inspector from Kragujevac, and other colleagues not only wait a few years for the categorisation of rural capacities in Šumadia and other areas, but we will, with those priorities that await us, give tourism great importance and we will include people from the profession. No matter how vain you are, you could have accepted the suggestions and suggestions that your colleagues gave you, but you didn't want to, because you were closely observing this problem. You have defended yourself with arguments at all Committee sessions, which really do not drink water, which the Shumadinians would say, but in the days that follow, because this debate on amendments will be long and perhaps tiring for you, we will show you that we have had better solutions and that we needed to accept them in September. In this way, this existing tourism law, along with these corrections and changes, and with our absolutely not accepting this foundation of the fund, is unacceptable for the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14756	The word has a minister. I'm joining this request to use the exact spelling. So, the Crown Prince is written – His Majesty, but it would be written for the King alone – Your Majesty.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14757	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to welcome you and apologize. The reason for my delay is that we were just on the "Banja Srbija" tourist market and at 15.15 I left Vranjska Banja to get here, so my driver had a good homework assignment. This is my first address to the Assembly, and I have to admit that I have some nervousness about the importance of an institution to which I should briefly explain this law. I think this law is the result of the work of the previous ministry and the work of the entire tourism economy for the past three years. Finally, after these exhausting debates over the other agenda points, we were waiting to put this point on the agenda. So let me explain relatively briefly the basic idea of this law. The successful development of one country's tourism depends largely on the quality of tourism policy and the coordination of the development of tourism and other complementary economic activities. The world is familiar with the experiences of developed tourism countries where public authorities appear as tourism policy holders, and its implementation is specified through appropriate system regulations and measures of current economic policy. Tourism policy with us in the past has deviated from classical and developed countries of well-known methods. There is insufficient respect for the positive experience of legal definition and regulation of tourism areas. Although the current Tourism Act has created a normative and legal framework for improving tourism as an activity of importance for the country's economy, the current application of this law has shown that tourism must be seen as an integral activity, conceptually adapted to development needs and opportunities, with stable sources of funding. Given that tourism is an economic activity beyond national frameworks, the text of this law is in line with the regulation of the European Union, and as a principle based on the regulation of relations in the field of tourism, the principle of sustainable development of tourism from Agenda 21 was adopted from the World Summit in Rio de Janeiro in 1992. The law consists of several chapters. The development and promotion of tourism is seen as an integral activity which is achieved through integrated planning for tourism development, protection, booking and sustainable use of tourist space and coordination of the activities of bodies and services, public, business and other tourism-related entities. Two mechanisms are foreseen to encourage tourism development. Encouragement measures for the implementation of projects in the field of promotion, spatial urban planning, the development of projects for nature protection, the environment, natural resources and cultural heritage, the construction of tourism infrastructure and the improvement of existing tourist offers will be financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. These are mostly projects that don't have commercial character. The Tourism Development Fund is being opened within the framework of the budgetary system and will be financed from the budget of the Republic, part of the tourism fee, donations and loans from the country and abroad and from other sources. Fund funds will be used to support tourism economy, co-financing, with lower interest rates or to subsidise part of the interest of bank loans for the development and implementation of projects of priority importance and to improve the development of tourism. In the field of promotion, the role of national tourism organisations in the process of improving and directing overall tourism development, as well as in coordinating the activities of tourism organisations, public businesses and other tourism entities, which act directly and indirectly to improve the promotion of Serbian tourism. The Serbian Tourist Organisation, in addition to implementing and preparing a strategy for promotion of tourism, sets out guidelines for the development of work programmes and plans for promotional activities of territorial and local tourism organisations, organises tourism market research, analyses the success of promotional activities and performs a number of other jobs that are important for creating a unique picture of Serbia's tourist product. In addition to defining jobs and roles in the promotion and promotion of tourism by territorial and local tourism organisations, they are given the opportunity to establish non-profit organisations for operational, marketing and promotional activities with the consent of the founders. The law provides for the adoption of a special act on the content and appearance of tourist signalling, with the aim of standardising the symbols and characters that play an important role in the process of informing tourists about tourist potentials and the contents of the tourist offer. A brief note – immediately after the adoption of this law we will start making a project of tourist signalling, for which, by means of subsidies, we have provided adequate resources. The paper in the law is a tourist fee, which represents the amount paid by legal persons, entrepreneurs and individuals who perform the work of travel agencies, travel agencies, catering activities and provide services in tourism, or perform other activities directly related to tourism in the territory of the tourist resort. The aim of this legislative solution is to create stable conditions for tourism financing, as well as to restore some of the revenues achieved thanks to the benefits of a particular destination, which has been declared a tourist destination, and to invest in the development of tourism in the city. In part of the legislation that regulates the activity of travel agencies, i.e. travel agencies, with the aim of harmonising normative and legal solutions with the law of the Member States of the European Union, provisions of the European Union Council Directive on organised travel, rest and circular travel from 1992 have been incorporated and solutions are proposed to raise the level of quality of services, protection of service users, as well as protection of tourism professions. Also, the distribution of tourist agencies to travel organizers and intermediaries agencies has been carried out. Travel organizers' agencies, in terms of conditions they must meet, can be the organisers of travel in the country and abroad (i.e. category A) and travel organisers in the country (category B). In the part of the law that defines the services of tourist professions, in addition to tourist guide services, the new solution is to define the services of a tourist animator in order to improve the quality of our tourist offer, in line with international standards. Compared to the existing solutions, in addition to certain additions and precision of the solutions so far, the special newspaper is the creation of normative-legal assumptions that international standards are applied in the categorisation of accommodation and other facilities in our country. This is an extremely important step to integrate our tourist offer with developed tourism markets. In order to develop rural tourism, it was regulated to provide accommodation and nutrition services in rural tourist households, located in the rural area, whose members mostly live on agricultural production and organised as rural tourist households. The provisions of the chapter on nautical activity define this activity, as well as the types of objects of nautical tourism. In co-operation with the ministry responsible for traffic operations, it was given the authority of the Minister responsible for tourism and traffic affairs to adopt a regulation that would prescribe minimum technical conditions, services and categorisation of these facilities. Based on these powers of law, nautical activity will be regulated by a single regulation. The supervision of the implementation of the provisions of this law, as well as the sublegal acts adopted under this law, is carried out by the Ministry through tourist inspectors, with established rights, duties and powers. Ladies and gentlemen, I have, of course, prepared a detailed explanation of the contents of each of the members of the law, but this time I would refrain from this kind of explanation and explanation, as I would, of course, wait for other comments, mostly from the heads of the parliamentary groups, so I might say one more thing about the results of the tourism economy in the previous year and a few days since I led this ministry. Thank you, for getting started.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14758	Thank you, Dr Bojan Dimitrievich, Minister of Trade, Tourism and Services. The following is the word by SPS authorised representative Rajko Baralic, and then by Mr Radosavljevic, the authorised DS representative, answered. Here you go, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14759	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, for almost a year now, for reasons that I cited at the very beginning of the debate on this agenda point, there is a law on tourism in the assembly procedure. It's a very important law. Given the potentials of the Republic of Serbia, the tourism, catering potentials, acquired habits and good practice for Serbian citizens to travel and receive guests and for the experience that existed in the last few decades, revenues from the tourism economy in Serbia were far more significant than some other areas than can be imagined today, from this time distance. I remind you, in 1972, Vronjačka Banja made a million overnights. That year, only two other spas in Europe, Karl's Vari and Baden-Baden made it happen. Of course it was a time of social tourism, a different organisation of the state, a different system, but it says that it is possible, when there are basic assumptions, to make significant economic results in the field of tourism and to employ other resources of one country, such as agriculture, craftsmanship, traffic and many others. And I'd like to ask one of the current and one of the former ministers to chat afterwards, if possible. Thank you. Unfortunately, the situation in Serbia today is not so. A huge number of tourist facilities, primarily catering facilities, are located below the level that can be tolerated, below the level that can guarantee an elementary quality service for those who want to achieve such a service. The level of technical regularity, technical conditions of traffic means is now far below what is also possible to tolerate. The purchasing power of the population is far below what we would like. In this regard, it is important that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopt a law that will create assumptions and ensure conditions for the development of this branch of the economy, which is in the field of services, but, of course, includes all these other compatible activities that I have been talking about. I also want to say that the SPS's position in forming this government was that the Government of the Republic of Serbia should have a portfolio of tourism and sports portfolios. I'm sorry it doesn't exist. Anything that exists in Serbia as a possible perspective in this area could deserve to provide a special portfolio, a special portfolio for tourism, for now the Ministry of Services, Tourism and Trade and Tourism. We'd like one ministry to deal with tourism only. It's not the subject of this law, but it's an opportunity to say with the proposed law. The law regulates and reserves tourist space, a space for performing tourist activity. This is compatible with the solutions found in the Space Plan adopted by parliament for ninety-seven years, I apologize for not knowing correctly; if that's important, I will say so – while the Socialist Party of Serbia has exercised power. This law defines how hospitality is carried out, in which the agencies become responsible for the users of tourist services. This law cannot define what we would like, a prescription, so it is impossible by law to prescribe that one agency provides as many foreign guests as possible in Serbia. In any case, there is a clear intention and there is awareness that this is necessary, because Serbia today is a country which unfortunately exports tourists, and inadequately host guests from other countries. In this way, there is a constant deficit that should be our constant concern in both this and all other areas. It's not easy to achieve. It takes a whole series of measures. The new tourism law is one of the important assumptions that all of this is defined in a normal way. I would especially like to talk about tourists, subjects of everything we do here today. I am free to say that representatives of tourism, tourist agencies, catering facilities often point out their work as basic, irreplaceable, without whom this would not exist. That's not true. All of them, their activities, their capacities exist solely in order to meet the needs of people to rest, to heal, to travel and to feed, to cultural needs; all these capacities serve only that purpose. With that in mind, there are several provisions in the law that clearly define it. A guest of tourists will be more protected in Serbia after the law has been passed than he has been before. Regardless of the objections that came from JUTA, HORES and others, I would like to say that tourist agencies have to take responsibility, although this has been settled by some other laws, the Law on Liaison. They have to take responsibility when they take 50 people a thousand miles from their place of residence, and these are often children, children of preschool and school age. They must have full responsibility, they must guarantee that the quality of transport and all other services that are subject to the arrangement will be at the level of the agreed, not agreed. With this in mind, I urge Mr. Minister and his associates to pay maximum attention to this matter and to the tourist inspection and to all others. This law does not define the organisation of student excursions. The Committee on Tourism, Trade and Services initiated an exchange of views on the subject. I ask the presidents of the Committee on Education and the Committee on Transport of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to hold a joint meeting, counselling, discussion on the organisation of student excursions in Serbia with representatives of these ministries and committees and all other interested tourism organisations, and in particular JUTE. There are several reasons why I'm talking about it here. First of all, we want to protect the children, we want to prescribe how excursions are organised, we want student excursions organised in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. We want to say, as you used to like to say, that everything is transparent and that those who organize excursions and take children ten days and more outside of the place of residence, and most often abroad, assume responsibility means that those who perform traffic services should have means of traffic that are at the level of the necessary quality that can guarantee the safety of children who are involved in these excursions. Definitely, educators, who take great responsibility by taking our children on a field trip, should be properly rewarded for what they do. When I say it the right way, then I'm perfectly clear, I'm not imputing anything, but I want to say it's important because we're all parents, uncles, some are grandfathers, and some are going to be. So it's very important to organise a student field trip safely and in quality. Let the Ministry of Education say what's important when it comes to the very essence of the field trip, all these others need to do whatever it takes to organize the field trip the way we all want it to be. I'll use the other ten minutes in the next call. I mean, Mr. Minister, the SPS will vote for this bill. I would ask the MPs to support the amendment that we have submitted, and we will discuss it when there is discussion of the details. In the end, I want to say that unfortunately for the reasons that I stated when I first called today as president of the Committee, it was too late to pass the law. It's not the Ministry's fault, and it's not the Committee's fault, it's the coordination, what's on the agenda. Once again, I would also ask Mr. Minister and Mr. President of the National Assembly for the Committee on Tourism and Trade to be constructed to reflect the government's majority and to have a structure like the Government, because otherwise we lose too much energy by organising Committee sessions and wasting time on the Ministry and on us from the Committee. It is necessary that the Committee on Tourism and Services and Trade has a 6-5 formation. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, a total of 11 members, six from the structures of those parties that form and support the government and five from the opposition parties. It's the only way the Committee can work effectively, and he's been doing quality work so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14760	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. Are any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has Aleksandar Radosavljevic, an authorised representative of the DS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14761	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, my predecessors have already noted, we have before us a bill that only last year has been withdrawn twice from the assembly procedure. Both times he was withdrawn, whether because of the preambitiously established agenda by the president of the assembly or simply not knowing the rules of assembly work and assembly activities. This important law was welcomed in May 2005. So much for the good legislative activity we've had in the past. So, the bill, as the minister himself found, was largely determined by the previous government, or as he put it, to be precise, its predecessors. We can freely say that we are discussing this law at a time when the season has long begun, so that the law itself will not be fully applicable for this year, only since the next 2006 will it be fully applicable. If there had been a goodwill and a valid determination of the importance of the bill, it could certainly have been in full effect since January 2005. Until then, in the area of tourism or tourism, the situation will be very bad. The Democratic Party finds that the Serbian government does not even have a concept of how and how to start working on the development of tourism. There is no tourism development strategy in Serbia. I remind you that his predecessor in the Serbian government has made up a strategy, that it is in the ministry, but that this strategy should have been looked at by now, if not by the minister himself. That hasn't happened until today. The elements of Serbia's tourism product are still undefined and unrecognizable. When they are processed, it appears to be styphic, chaotic, and largely personal ingenuity of individuals. There are no foreign investment in tourism. Much has been said in the past that a large number of foreign companies will come to invest in Serbia. That in this particular case almost doesn't exist. To this day, absolutely nothing has happened. The privatisation of the hotel is completely stopped, the system of work is retained, which is freely established, absolutely exceeded and unadjusted by modern tourist flows. Also, for the Democratic Party, it is very unclear how and by which criteria budget funds are placed. An example of Kopalnik and an example of investment in ′′Genex′′ cableways is very unusual, so I ask Mr. Minister if the Minister of Finance has consulted anyone, if not personally the Minister of Trade and Tourism. Where's the tender in that case? Where's the public in a specific case? Was there any abuse? That remains a very vague question. Why is it just so invested in the ownership of a company that has not achieved very small and negligible income since the exploitation, and until then development projects in the tourism sector cannot be financed? Reminders for the sake of tourism signals in Serbia are almost impossible and with only these funds that have gone to the mentioned facilities could have improved a lot and brought to order in the area of tourist signalling. As the entire branch is without concept, as we said, it is without the concept and promotion of Serbia's tourism potential. No point of tourist offer has been made, which is a motive for coming to Serbia. The way the data is processed, the measurement of tourist traffic is absolutely inadequate. Monitoring of specific consumption effects, for example, almost does not exist. The policy of selling accommodation facilities does not exist, each creates its own individual policy, regardless of the quality and degree of filling and the like. What has this ministry had to do in the past, and it has not done, that the condition, which we have mentioned in the shortest lines, is improved? There was no incentive to invest in development, there was no effective credit policy. The situation in that part, primarily from the restoring minister and the ministry, must be drastically improved. A proper tax policy must be conducted to stimulate development and investment in tourism in Serbia. With all these problems in mind, it seems a startling fact that after a year and more, the resolution ministry comes out with its first law from the vaults they cover, a law that, once again, reminds you, was created by the previous government of Serbia. I have to remind you, the president of the Assembly Committee just complained about the lack of a majority. The Assembly Committee on Trade and Tourism did not adopt an annual report by the resolution minister not because there were not enough MPs of the ruling majority, but rather the main reasons are in the lack of good communication with the speaker of the Assembly and lack of legislative activity, which is absolutely necessary in this area and where the ministry has shown its very high slowdown. I don't know where or where that came from. As far as DS MPs are concerned, the final position on the bill will be made after a statement on a number of amendments. Some have been accepted on the board of directors, have become an integral part of the text, but I must point out that, as far as DS is concerned, it is far greater damage that we do not have the law, incomprehensible damage, because the law has waited a year and a little more days for it to appear before the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In any case, according to the number of amendments adopted, DS MPs will be defined in the voting day, and in the principle debate will be attended by other my colleagues who will certainly state the reasons why we believe this law should have taken place much sooner in the assembly procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14762	Branka Bosnjak, an authorised representative of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, spoke for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14763	I am authorized on behalf of the party G17 plus here to express my support for this law. I will talk about it with several aspects: as a citizen of Serbia who supports all the system laws that encourage one or more business branches; as an architect who participated in the development of planning and project documentation for the development of tourist sites, as well as tourist facilities; as a user of our country's tourism services, with the aim of helping the quality of offers and services be better; in the end, as a folk MP, whose obligation is to protect domestic but foreign tourists from all kinds of abuses and incompatibility, which are unfortunately quite present lately. This law creates a legal basis for the development of a comprehensive tourism development programme by defining the following stages. The planning phase, sources of funding, strictly determines the jobs and responsibilities of the tourism provider, sets standards for the provision of services in tourism, protects the users of tourist products and also protects tourist workers and professions. As a comprehensive result of the application of this law brings tourism as an economic branch of importance it can have, but unfortunately it still does not exist in Serbia at this time. What's new in this law? First of all, the spatial organisation of tourism; tourist regions and tourist resorts are defined by categories one to four, all in order to integrate tourism planning. Secondly, encouraging measures are being defined for the development of Serbia's tourism and budgets plan to develop spatial plans, promote tourist regions, protect the environment, develop tourism infrastructure, improve the quality of tourist offer and tourist services. The new is also the role of the old TOS, the Serbian Tourist Organisation. It gains importance by strengthening its role in the development and promotion of tourism content and programmes. It co-ordinates participants in the tourist offer, proposes a strategy, participates in realisation, initiates the creation of a unique IT system in the country and abroad. Given the importance of the Serbian Tourist Organisation, partial funding from the budget is mandatory, but TOS will also have its own sources of funding. In the following, the new law sets out criteria by which the level of residence tax and tourist fee are defined. Tourist tax is paid by persons who use tourist services in a place outside of their residence. The law also defines anyone who does not pay a tourist tax, which is children under the age of seven, persons who are referred to Banjski treatment, researchers and some similar categories. Tourist compensation is paid by persons and entities who are active in the tourist area, such as those who betray their facilities to tourists. The paper in the law is also a fund managed by the ministry, and funds are used, in the legal way, to develop strategic plans in tourism, incentive measures, environmental protection programmes, promotion of tourism, infrastructure development, reconstruction of existing tourist complexes. The law in a particular segment defines the work, organisation and control of the work of entities providing tourism services both in tourism and in catering. For travel agencies, the law prescribes a space in which the work is carried out and a certain personnel training of employees. The agencies shall be classified as categories. Also, agencies get licenses based on deposited funds in the bank or based on an appropriate level of insurance. The law also provides for conditions under which that licence can be withdrawn. This law may be the most important in this segment, given all the bad experiences we remember in the recent or further past. Of course, this law is welcome, that it was necessary to speak and certain statistics. I don't know how familiar you are, but it's amazing that all of Serbia has 47,000 beds. Belgrade, as the capital, has a total of about 6,200 beds. When I say 6,200 beds, I mean all categories, even the lowest categories of hotels that have accommodation capacity. A few more of the statistics on how they benefit from the tourism of a particular country in Europe and how Serbia earns. I will list some countries in the environment and some reference countries, the most developed European countries, which are the most income from tourism. For example, Greece has about 14 million overnight stays and an annual income of $10 billion. Hungary has about 15.7 million guests and about 3.5 billion dollars; Croatia 7.4 million tourists and 6.7 billion dollars of income; Italy 40 million tourists and 31 billion dollars a year. France has 75 million tourists, with $37 billion in revenue, and it is also a recordr of the number of tourists. Spain has fewer tourists, but it is a tourist income recordr; it has 51 million tourists and generates $42 billion in revenue. If we talk about Serbia, zeroes immediately, Serbia has about two million tourists annually, with an annual income of $220m. Let me remind you, when I was talking about revenue for all these previous countries, I was talking about billions of dollars. Finally, little optimism: whether participation or the role of this government, most likely because of this, has increased the number of tourists by 10% in Serbia over the past year. Because of what I said, on behalf of the G17 party plus I want to say that we will support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14764	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 89(4) of the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure, until the opening of the search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, MPs submitted parliamentary groups of the SRS, DSS, DS, G17 plus and the SPS. I give my word to MP Jovan Todorovic, and let the MP Slobodan Pajovic be prepared. There is currently no Mr. Pajovic, and unless he shows up, the next MP will be Vesna Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14765	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our colleague Rajko Baralic said the SPS' position on the proposal for a tourism law, and I allow myself to say a few more things that I think are important in the content of this law. First of all, a few perfectly principled things. I think tourism is one of our past missed chances, and in the future, one of Serbia's great development opportunities and comparative advantages. We have missed many things over the past decades in the field of tourism, and therefore today we have data from counterpart Branka Bosnjak. So today in Serbia, tourism-based income is measured only with $200m or euros, however, and other similar ones, and I would say to a tourist offer even poorer, the country's tourist income measures in tens of billions of dollars. The goal of every law, and I mean this one, is to repair the current situation in a particular area. It seems to me that the legislator of this law is on the right track, following those problems that should be addressed in the field of tourism, but in a way that will involve strategy and integrated planning of all activities in the area. A lot of the new one has been defined in law, and from that point of view, I couldn't say a certain point of view. Stepneath was done, as I would, if I were a proposer of such an act, because there must be some kind of tourism development strategy; then definitions of tourist space, tourist regions, tourist resorts, etc. It's all logical, but unfortunately, life leads us to reality and it tells us that it will be very difficult for every other minister in this area to, say, agree with the criteria of this law and definition, declare one place as touristic. Take, for example, a member of the 14th law, so you will see that the tourist resort is defined as an organisational and functional continent with a formed tourist offer, natural, cultural, historical and other attractions important for tourism, municipal, traffic and tourist infrastructure, as well as facilities and other facilities for accommodation and tourist stay. Now someone might ask what's going on here? You see, many of these elements we have and these elements are present in reality, but if you take the notion of traffic and other infrastructures, then you'll come up with one defeating knowledge. Unfortunately, all this tourist offer, all this good infrastructure is accompanied by very poor traffic infrastructure, and there is no tourism, there is no domestic or foreign guest in any touristic space, in any tourist region, in any place, if to these tourist resorts, we have to go on the roads we have today. I could talk about all the municipalities in Serbia, but I know best the opportunities in western Serbia, which, as you know, has a rich tourist offer, but the roads to that end, to Loznica, from which I come, are the same for those of us who have to travel here, and let alone that a tourist will go on some kind of tourist adventure on our roads. I look at a respected colleague, Perić, I think of Sretu Perić, so I remember Sokograd and such tourist offer that is located around the municipality of Ljubovije, but getting to Sokograd is a real art, because you risk losing your wheel, losing your life in traffic, etc. What do I mean? We must build such a policy and force our Mr. Minister Velju Ilic to do everything possible at this time, in May, before the tourist season itself, to clean up this travel network, at least to the extent possible to reach certain tourist destinations. Vela Ilic is an optimist, has promised more roads than there are, therefore, that she will do in Serbia, but let her do what needs to be done at this time, basic traffic routes; they should be arranged in a way that the tourist can really contribute to the overall development of the economy. Serbia's tourist offer is diverse and I would say rich, but we still haven't learned some basic things from that segment. I almost read the statement of a foreign tourist who said, "Serbia is a very beautiful country, but only what comes from garbage." Take any route through Serbia and you'll see wild dumps by the roads, forests full of shelled and thrown cars, car cemetery, car tires and who knows what, just in the natural areas, in those destinations where garbage is not the place. We cannot hesitate, encourage to invite foreign tourists if they will react on such occasions as a tourist who has recently been in Serbia and has just said so. Someone in this country has to lay down a rule that we must not dirty our environments, that we must not be as human beings, nor as people, nor as citizens, and especially as business elements, grumble. This is first and foremost for me: clean your house, tourist space, tourist resort, region, the facility in which we will receive guests. We can justify the sanctions, the difficult economic situation, the lack of money, and that the tourism economy is low-accumulated, and that's true, but there's no excuse for the dirt that's at every turn, which nobody in this country is trying to seriously wipe off the face of the earth. For us, it is a very big problem, although it can be done to someone that when I speak these words, I exaggerate and, without the right reasons, I suggest that it is one of the basic problems that we cannot possibly be proud of. The minister said the law also envisions some incentive measures for tourism development. I welcome that. I know that many here will wonder if it is a good solution that within the budget of the Ministry of Trade and Tourism, appropriate funds are allocated in the form of a fund that will encourage the development of tourism, but whatever form they give me is the most important thing that is the very definition of the government and the Ministry to help the tourism economy, even so, through the fund. It is understood that appropriate criteria will be established in the use of these funds and that, I am quite sure, a large number of economic operators from our Republic's space will be interested in using these funds. I am also sure that, at least at the first moment, we will have shortages, i.e. insufficient funds for all those who would like to invest in improving their tourist offer, improving the infrastructure and total tourist wealth, which is in some way within our reach, but not enough or almost, compared to potential, we do not use it. There are a few things that are not clear to me. In the definition of certain concepts, it has gone so far as to define what domestic work is, what is a natural person who provides services in the area of accommodation and in the area of nutrition and what is a rural tourist household. I welcome it, first of all, as an idea to be within that so-called. rural tourism has done what has not been the case so far, and you all, fellow MPs, can list a series of examples in villages, which, as a rule, have run out of residents, that we have so many built houses, magnificent, with areas of more than 150, and over 300 square meters, in which almost no one lives, and just those houses have been built in areas that are a tourist paradise and which provide the possibility of organising a rural tourist household. By definition, the rural tourist household is authorized to provide accommodation services, provided that there are no more than 30 beds, that it provides its guests with food services, tastings of their food products, drinks, as well as tourist groups that appear in the area. But a natural person who has been registered to perform this activity and who is doing just that, and not a rural tourist household, you will notice, does not have all these powers and rights, so he has the right to feed only those guests who sleep in it, and others who would eventually appear as guests in passing, as a tourist group, or random passersby, have no right to feed. I simply failed to understand until the end what is the difference between the rural tourist household provided by these accommodation and nutrition and physical persons, which is registered as such in the competent authority of local self-government, which also provides these services. I did not understand, unless it is thought that these are the persons who will perform this activity in the area of the city or suburban areas, so they will not be able to provide food services from their own production to tourists, but rather, they will have to organize the diet in some other way. Furthermore, it is also said that it is new that tourist compensation is being introduced, which will essentially be decided by local self-government, with the ministry's consent. It would be good if the minister could tell us in the follow-up to what amount these tourist fees can be determined. It shows here that 80 per cent of the funds achieved on the basis of the tourist compensation will be kept in the budgets of local self-government, and 20% will go to the republican budget, i.e. the fund from which some other entities outside the area will be financed under some tourism development strategy. This is, of course, necessary, but we must be careful, because the tourism industry is currently in such a state that there is not much opportunity to bear some high fees, and since there is a danger in both local and local congregations that many local congregations will seek to collect as much revenue as possible on the basis of this fee, but, unfortunately, it will make it more difficult for those tourist followers who decide to do so. Also, from this whole concept, at least from what the minister said (although he himself said that in a short version he was talking about this law), I do not realize until the end whether natural persons and rural tourist households will have the right to compete for these funds from the tourism development fund. I'm particularly concerned, I'm not really sure about the text of the law, whether the individuals who have registered for this activity will have the right to compete equally with all the other entities that appear here as potential beneficiaries of these funds. We have here in fact two ways of encouraging, by the state, the development of tourism. One refers to the tourism development fund, and the other to the incentive measures set out in Article 16. I think that this is actually, at this point, something that we have to do to create the elemental preconditions that anyone at all defines to be seriously involved in this activity. Unless we have arranged planning in the field of tourism, arranged spatial plans, defined spaces, regions and tourist resorts, then all this story is in some way unnecessary, because we don't know where we are in all of this. Someone may think for themselves that it is a tourist resort, but if it does not meet the appropriate criteria, let's say in terms of traffic infrastructure, municipal and others, then it's a wasteful job, if we don't get these incentives from Article 16. It is especially important under point 4 – encouraging the construction of tourist infrastructure, sports-recreative and other accompanying content of public character important for improving the quality of the tourist offer. Article 17 states: ′′ The right to use the funds referred to in Article 16(1) of this Act is provided by users who provide their own participation. ′′ This own participation can be 1%, 5%, 20% or 50% of the required amount. I do not know what act or decision of the Government or the Ministry will establish criteria for funding activities such as participation in financing the development of relevant spatial plans, financing promotional activities, financing projects for nature protection, environment, natural resources and cultural heritage of tourist regions and tourist sites. I think it's also news from tourism organisations that we have a degree-of-the-art establishment of tourist organisations and that's by having a tourist organisation at the level of the Republic, then at the level of the autonomous province. We will be able to join together as two, three or more municipalities, and we will establish a tourist organisation for the region or part of that region. The city will also be able to have its own tourist organisation, as the local assembly, i.e. the municipality, now has the right to establish a tourist organisation. All the experiences I know about the work of tourism organizations in the past are about the fact that tourist organisations were actually institutions and institutions that were vegetative throughout the story, because there was no serious incentive for tourism development by the Ministry, government and local parliaments. Finally, in this country we must understand that we have lost the technological battle with highly developed countries, that we cannot produce products that require high-tech, at least at this point, but that we can measure ourselves with any country in the environment when it comes to the tourist offer. This country also has a very rich resource, and I also consider it our comparative advantage, which is agriculture. Successfully organized tourism, strategically designed activity in the field of tourism, and well-organised agricultural production are actually two branches, two areas of economic life that can pull this country forward and, most importantly from my point of view, leave a large number of young people, above all, in our country, and then in those areas where food is produced, in the rural area. This can reduce their ambitions or the need to flee from the village to the city, bring them back to where they will best profit for themselves, for their future and for their family, because they will be food producers and make an organized rural tourist household with the relevant facilities. Because they are educated, at least with medium professional training or with higher schools, and are now meeting the criteria of this law that they can also be managers of catering facilities, motels and hotels, and in particular that they can deal with the activities of catering, provision of housing and nutrition services, at a level that requires secondary education and, of course, what is absolutely necessary, knowledge of at least one world foreign language. So if we develop these two areas, tourism and agriculture as it does to reasonable people, then within a very short time, in a few years we will be able to collect results from agriculture, which will be over tourism and export-oriented. I'll finish, since it's the end of time. I wanted to express my view of the SPS and my humble opinion of this area. So tourism is an export chance for agriculture. I don't want to talk about the results in the area of exports, foreign trade, balance of payments, imports, etc.; we know that there is a disastrously difficult situation in that area and that any export can take this country out to some clearing that means a better perspective. Joining these forces from tourism and agriculture is a desperate need. It would be a sin not to use the natural potential we have in tourism and agriculture, precisely in a way that provides increased employment and not only 47,000 beds in the country of Serbia at our disposal, but 150,000 - 200,000 and so on. Finally, when I mentioned the bearings, Mr. Minister, I'm afraid you're a little rigid and too strict in determining the criteria of Article 12, when it comes to the tourist region. Point 1) says – at least 1,000 beds in basic accommodation facilities, and in point 2) – at least 150,000 nights achieved in the previous calendar year. Given the difficult situation, Mr Nikolic, in the area of tourism, it is hard to expect that those who plead to be declared a tourist region will be able to prove that they had 150,000 overnights in the previous year. Mrs. Bosnjak was just saying that unfortunately, we have a catastrophicly small number of overnight stays in all the years behind us. We could cut it in half, make it acceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14766	The word has Minister Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14767	At the end of the day, let me say one more thing. I think a certain comment deserved what MP Radosavljevic of the DS said, because I believe that, apart from those things that are true, there are some things that are not true. The first thing that is absolutely not true is that the Ministry has no concept of tourism development. It's just not true. In the concept of tourism development, there are about five or six things that we have defined. First, it is a legal regulation that we are now defining, it is an incentive means, it is a promotion of tourism, a tourism development strategy that we are preparing and intensive communication with the tourism economy. Furthermore, it has been said that there is a tourism development strategy made by the ministry's previous meeting. That's not true. You're the one who got mixed up. There's a strategy to develop trade. The last strategy for tourism development is the one from 1997, which in many respects is not so bad, but time has run out. That is why it is our idea to innovation the tourism development strategy. As regards the strategy for the development of trade, we, of course, supported it as a ministry and moved on, because these days we are completing the draft law on trade, which is the concreteisation of the strategy for the development of trade. When it comes to results and investments, all I have to say is that tourism records, when it comes to foreign exchange revenues, may be the fastest results of all other industries. I don't think that's primarily due to this ministry. This is something that makes sense for all countries in transition, because the share of the services sector, primarily trade and tourism, is legally growing in all transition countries. That's why the foreign exchange revenue from tourism since 2000, when it was $20 million, has now reached 220 million. So almost 11 times in four years. This year we expect over $300m of foreign exchange revenue and we also expect a growth rate that will certainly exceed 15, if not 20%. We've got good conjuncture hints, because the tourism fair may have been the best ever. What is one part true is about investment in tourism, but I think there will be more and more because the joint agreement we had with the Privatisation Agency and the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation to speed up the privatisation of the most important hotels, especially in Belgrade and in our most important Banja cities. It's right on stage. Nevertheless, there are incentive funds in the Ministry's tourism development fund. The Serbian Development Fund has allocated over 300m dinars over the past four years. There have also been several significant international donations made for the development of spas, in the first place, and the Republic of Croatia. We think that's also where we expect significant results. Just one brief comment on what they said, I think, Mr. Baralic and an MP from the SPS. When it comes to stimulant means, natural persons will be able to use them, perhaps within the next month. When it comes to the problem of student excursions, perhaps during this debate there will be even more time to say something. That was also the subject of the Committee on Trade and Tourism. There, the ministry had more initiatives towards the Ministry of Education, how to solve the problem in the right way. It is crucial to ensure that parents know exactly what they pay for when they sign their consent to organise student excursions, that is, what is the element of the offer that contains the appropriate tour organization.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-10-0.u14768	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. The word will be given tomorrow by MP Slobodan Pajovic. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 102 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Vladimir Milankov, Anita Beretic, Aleksandar Radosavljevic, and in the morning Dragan S. Jovanovic. We move to the 10th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE TURISM (resumption in principle) The word has a National MP Vesna Obradović, and let the MP Branislav Stevanović be prepared.
