ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-24-0.u15817	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, I am opening the fourth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 226 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 242 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. Notice of the absence of the Messengers of the people: no messenger has informed that he has been prevented from being present. In accordance with Article 80(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session in agreement with the Presidents of Parliament Groups in the National Assembly, within a short period of time set out in Article 80(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the need to consider the points of the proposed agenda of the session as soon as possible. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda acts by emergency procedure. A group of 80 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group suggested that an emergency procedure should be put on the agenda of the motion for a non-confidential vote to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 6 April 2005 (point 1 of the proposed agenda). I'm putting this motion to the vote by emergency procedure. For 116, against 128, two of the 246 MPs present did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. National MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meso Omerovic suggested putting the draft law on the agenda for political parties, which submitted to the National Assembly on 18 April 2005. I'm putting this motion to the vote by emergency procedure. For 33, against 129, they did not vote 84 out of 246 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. A group of 80 MPs of the SRS MPs suggested that an urgent procedure should be put on the agenda of a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances relating to the increasingly common public information on the participation of Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus in corruption affairs, which she submitted to the National Assembly on 26 April 2005. I'm putting this motion to the vote by emergency procedure. For 115, against 105, abstention 23, three of the 246 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. Since we have made a statement on the proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure, pursuant to Article 86(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Ambassador Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-24-0.u15818	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. President, I'm advocating a violation of article 199. The Rules of Procedure, which discusses the deadlines within which proposals for not trusting the Government and individual ministers should be put on the agenda. The whole agenda, which should be discussed today, rather than decided, was to be found in this House much earlier today. What is important in any case is to point out that when 20 or more MPs demand a debate on the government's non-confidential vote, this debate, according to the Rules of Procedure, must be opened. It cannot, or at least it must not, be the subject of voting, or it cannot be the subject of voting. The SRS has submitted a motion for a no-confidence vote to the government. She pointed out her reasons, but the DS states that any proposal to vote for no confidence to the government represents an opportunity for parliament and for the public to discuss the entire policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia. The DS believes that economic opportunities in the country are very bad, that all economic trends are more than worrying and that unfortunately all those objections and criticisms that the DS, when the government of the Republic of Serbia was formed in March 2004, came true several times in 2004 and in early 2005 before Serbian citizens. Inflation was measured in March 2005 at 16.6%. Unemployment is not reduced, tax inflows in this country are 30% higher than they were, and the economy is inequitable. The economy in Serbia is in recession. The security situation is much worse than it was in 2003, although the minister replaced more than 700 people operating Serbian police. The situation in the judiciary is more than alarming and we receive daily messages from both abroad and from relevant country-wide players. All these are reasons why Serbian citizens need to hear a debate about the government's confidence. If the debate does not take place, the parliamentary majority, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the prime minister of the government, are afraid of what MPs in this parliament have to say about what is wrong with the government of the Republic of Serbia's politics. Before I entered this hall, my friend Milan Stanimirovic reminded me of a thought that Masarik said before World War II: "The essence of parliamentaryism is not in the decision, the essence of parliamentaryism is in debate." I don't understand why anyone would be afraid to present 250 MPs to this House the reasons against the Government of the Republic of Serbia or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is a clear sign of weakness and is a clear sign of cowardice if the parliamentary majority harms the Rules of Procedure if the constitution is violated in this way and if Serbia remains deprived of the debate on the confidence of the government of Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-24-0.u15819	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Tomislav Nikolic. Is it the same member? Excuse me, please tell me, Mr. Nikolic, that I would not fall into a trap, do you advertise the same member? I'm sorry, then I have to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-24-0.u15820	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know which of these binding acts to show you and which one to defend before you today. This is the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, adopted by the majority of the votes of the MPs, and this is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, adopted at the referendum. First Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 73 and Article 93. Article 73, point 11, says, "The National Assembly is in control of the government's work." Article 93(4) says, "A vote of mistrust can only be accessed after three days of the day of submission of a motion for a non-confidential vote." You want to stop us today, breaking the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The constitution has given the National Assembly the right and obligation to control the government, and you want to prevent that debate. The Constitution has set a minimum time limit within which a non-trust point must be found on the agenda. The constitution did not tell the president of the National Assembly that he could fake the National Assembly session and that he decided mostly whether to discuss the government's trust. This isn't a vote, this is being discussed, and then it's being voted after the debate. Mr. President, you're doing such a laugh here to ask us today if we're accepting an emergency procedure for a proposal for an act that we filed in April of the month; whether we're in favour of an emergency procedure to vote for mistrust, and it's been two months since we tabled that proposal. You may be a serious man, Mr. President, but this is an unserious way to conduct a session of the National Assembly. You have reason to defend the government, but not to defend it by not discussing its work today, you have an argument. So if after a year and a half of government you have no courage and you are unable to come out here and talk about the results of the government's work, then why are you defending her, why are you defending her by leaving the O.R., how you're going to feel – because you're going to be the second majority convocation to defend the government in this way. The first was Dossovski, in which you defended the government of the Democratic Party. In this way, even more brutally, in words - who are you from the opposition to destroy our government, you didn't even choose it. This is the same way, same manner, non-democratic manner, dictatorial. Don't create a vision of democracy for us, if there's no debate about the government, we don't need a congregation. Order regulations on who will rule, how long will the government, when ministers are replaced, do not need the National Assembly, if it cannot, to discuss the government, and it has fulfilled the constitution of the intended obligation. We have fulfilled the Constitution of the intended obligation to discuss the government, and you say it is the most successful government. Let's open up that debate. Our debate comes down to the government's co-operation with The Hague. If you touch us in that debate, then, of course, both you and everyone else, let them expect to answer Serbian radicals. You want not to discuss the government that brutally kidnapped a man from medical devices, not hearing and not audio and visual apparatus, from life-giving medical devices. She kidnapped him, put him on a plane and transferred him to The Hague. A few months after you made a public promise not to arrest anyone, a few months after our consent to what you're doing in Serbia, and I wanted to tell you, maybe you'll stop me from hiring criminals to provide you with the money you pay for families of people who, say, volunteer to The Hague. Yes, but these criminals are funding another parliamentary group here, so it's already become a manners. I'd tell you all that if it were possible for you to allow it. I would tell you what this co-operation with The Hague looks like and I would say that General Lukic never denied his family's statement that he was brutally kidnapped. I'd tell you a lot if you'd let it happen, but don't look like those governments before you who wouldn't let them speak in the assembly. None has ended well, and therefore I beg you, Mr. President; you are a serious man in a mature age, and you and I are getting away with almost everything in life; what we shall do is biology; therefore, that you may remain remembered, Mr. President, as a man who has led the congregation with honor; for you also do a crime. You're one of the state's authorities here to prevent them from carrying out their duties. So please, don't let us play pointing to the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, don't let it occur to you to escape from this hall and the moon, because it's unnatural for me to run away and wear it in the hand of the Performance Study. Something seems to me like you're being roasted by that feasibility study. It's unnatural for me, such a strong coalition, which, day and night, controls that no one has been kidnapped, that someone hasn't been paid yet, that he hasn't sold his soul to the devil, as individuals in this congregation; something is making me uncomfortable and so strong and powerful political parties. The polls say you're extremely strong, even some of you would cross the census, so I don't know why you're running away from this moon. You open new jobs, you build roads, you build bridges, you build factories, all flowers, banks are sold at huge prices, everything is right in Serbia, kids with a song go to school, no one touches them, no one sells drugs, we get Serbia. We'll start as at the time of the hippie movement to carry flowers around our necks, it's all due to this government, so let's just tell us that you're responsible, maybe we can go to the end of the session and congratulate you on your successes. So please don't step on the Rules of Procedure, Mr. President. No one here has suggested a single point of expansion, no point to shorten the agenda. It's about the agenda you suggested. If the Assembly doesn't adopt that agenda for you today, I expect you to resign immediately, Mr. President. That's the least I expect of you. In Japan, I'd say you should look up to honorary ancestors, perform a more radical act, and resign here.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-24-0.u15821	Thank you for your remarks from Japan. I ask you to look up to your ancestors from Switzerland and take care of the timeline. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Vlahovic, and then, according to the Rules of Procedure, the MP Gordana Komic appears. During exposure, please reduce your intensity of care for my biological clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-24-0.u15822	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 199. I don't think there's any need to read it, because my predecessors also made it very clear where the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly was injured, or where the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was violated. As my esteemed colleague Dusan Petrovic said, the essence of parliamentary life is not the vote, but is the essence of parliamentary life in the debate. It is really not clear to me how it is possible for a coalition that has a majority in this parliament to risk harshly breaking the constitution, breaking the Rules of Procedure harshly, not allowing exactly the debate that should, above all, point to the citizens of Serbia where Serbia really is today. We have been in the past witnessing of universal joy, which has just come from the ruling majority, which I suspect exists today in parliament, otherwise the debate would have been allowed, which is -- that in Serbia has never been better than today, as our roses are flourishing, here comes the Performance Study, here and the IMF has reached agreement with the Serbian Government and from now on our journey in transition will be filled with roses. When that is the case, I am surprised that it is precisely in this universal happy noise that a few tones pass that, unfortunately, comes from those who, among other things, are there to assess the course of economic reforms. You could have heard three days ago what economists like Bokroš, Baclerovich think about; and I remind you that these are the main creators of transition in the two most successful countries in Eastern Europe; they said very clearly that economic transition in Serbia, that economic reforms in Serbia -- are ahead of collapse. But you had opportunities during this debate to hear the argument of what it is that the Serbian government is not doing well. I'm afraid you're missing, as Milosevic has always missed out on arguments, argumentary criticism, to change the course of his ship, not to lead us to ruin; I'm afraid in the autumn you'll pay a much higher price for it, when the real reasons we wanted to point out to you today during this debate. You could have heard during this debate, but unfortunately you are both prepared to break the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure just so that the debate does not occur, that today in Serbia the growth of industrial production is measured not by a positive figure, but by a negative one. It's a fall. That's what we told you last year when you were destroying the development of the private sector. You could hear that in the first quarter of Serbia inflation growth is 5.9%. There's nothing of single-digit inflation, as planned. As we could remind you of your "phenomenal" results in 2004, which is that inflation was by 70% more than it was projected, that the trade deficit was twice as high as in 2003, that the balance deficit was up by 80% – that all performances were literally all performances to measure economic activity – worse than the year before. As you could now hear, during the debate, what is it that awaits us in the autumn, and these are huge social unrest; not because the public is not ready to accept the inescapability of restructuring public enterprises and the inescapability of reducing the state administration; but because the constant difficulty in applying these measures has led to an even greater and greater social price. (President: Time. I'm sorry that you're missing your last chance, to hear the argument over arguments, based criticism, that would help that government, because if you have a majority, you'll eventually vote for survival. Of course, you'll trust the government, but I'm sorry you won't let you hear the arguments, and I'm afraid that's exactly why you're going to pay a big price. You already paid for it. (President: five minutes. ) As my esteemed predecessor said, some may skip the censorship of the next election, perhaps, but most certainly not. (President: But you certainly skipped the time foreseen for conversion. Be nice and get it over with. I advise you to hear the arguments we have in the debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-24-0.u15823	Here you are, MP Gordana Komic. I hope you will talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure, and then the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-24-0.u15824	Ladies and gentlemen, I point to a violation of Article 28. The Rules of Procedure, which discusses business, apart from constitutional and legal obligations, shall oblige the President of the Assembly to take care of constitutionality and legality and to take care of the consistency of the work of the Assembly's body. The President of the Assembly is responsible for what is happening in the Assembly. With the ruling majority's will, whatever you decide today as the ruling majority, when it comes to these six points of the agenda, the Assembly is at a loss. It is unforgivable for anyone who wants to cope with all the difficulties facing institutions in transition, indeed contributes to the work of the Assembly. One opposition group has raised a political issue, which is a debate on confidence in the government, a debate on confidence in ministers. The ruling majority responds to this by technical question - we have 126. We're not interested in asking your political questions. The shortness of that move is something you had to learn, because I'm going to quote you two years ago -- that such a procedure is "violence against the Constitution and violence against the Assembly". Ask the current Prime Minister if he said it. I don't care what the Prime Minister wants or what the ministers do, I have a problem with the President of the Assembly. So you have two proposals on this agenda to discuss the President's trust. One was submitted by an SRS parliamentary group, the other by the DS. So, apart from the fact that we have a minority government, we also have a president of the Assembly who is concerned about whether he enjoys the trust of the number of MPs who voted for him in the election. Even if you decide to answer the political question technically, which is a mistake for the Assembly; you will see it by public reactions very quickly; it is not done. When you see someone make that mistake, you don't repeat it. It's called passion. Obviously, in Serbia, he must be in power every once in a while and use the full capacity of his passion to learn that the Assembly is not threatened by the fact that when someone answers your political demands, you say - I don't care, I have 126. The particular problem is that there are a lot of materials, when it comes to the government, to discuss it. Just one remark. The Ministry of Education and Money, which is intended for schools, which has been withdrawn from the vault, and the sum of the special stimulation of teachers and professors for the work of extracurricular activities - has been abolished. What does the congregation know about it? It is about the population we all call upon, that we will invest in their education for modern European society. The police department, how many scandals, how many unverified news, that's what we're supposed to be talking about here. (President: Time. I repeat, it is much less important that the Prime Minister has not submitted a report, which the ministers have not submitted, than the fact that you are ignoring that the president of this assembly has been asked to discuss his trust. The government is one topic. If the ruling majority will not use the Assembly's capacity to control the government's work, it is a problem for the ruling majority to be paid in the elections. If the Assembly doesn't want to talk about itself, then we have a much more serious problem than the sentence - I have 126 and I don't care if I put it on the agenda or not. The capacity of the mandate (that's what I was telling you when we talked about the Government Act), which you're assessing your own mandate, shows the political maturity of those who got the state to run. Never will a politically mature person answer political questions with a technical response and a sentence - I have 126, I will not talk about the government or the president of the Assembly. We are sorry, and indeed once again, whatever you decide to do, you are at a loss; and worse than all, the congregation is at a loss.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-24-0.u15825	Here you go, Mr. Wolfie, and then the People's MP, Dragore Hiber.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-24-0.u15826	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not talk about the Government of the Republic of Serbia and abuse the pay phone in any way that you will not transfer me. I want to talk about the violation of article 100. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, because I believe that the dignity of the National Assembly is hurt in the worst possible way, brutally overrun, and I know that most MPs agree with it, regardless of whether they are not allowed to vote because of party loyalty or something else. In fact, you swear so much in Europe and European standards, and nowhere in Europe, but neither in Asia nor in America, nor in Africa so far, and so far there is no case of the opposition launching a request for a debate on government or impellation, and then someone saying, "I'm sorry, this can't be on the agenda, and we won't even talk about it because we've had a thought of not having a discussion or as someone said -- the government is doing well, so we won't even discuss it. Guys, if the government's working well, then let's have a debate. But doing good and doing bad is not a question of your opinion and your desire. It has to be on the agenda, whether you like it or not. He can't do that because someone doesn't know what's going to happen in those five, six or ten days, how long the debate is going to last, whether some thieves and criminals are going to buy some other thieves and criminals, to exclude all other MPs from the story and discuss what is the essence of the question, whether this government deserves trust or not. What we are asking as a question, and that is -- who was able to convince someone in Serbia that it has become normal for something like that to not be on the agenda; they say -- here we have most of us to take it off the agenda. Nowhere and never, in any European country, something similar has happened. Comparative practice does not know a similar case. Nowhere and never. So this could have occurred to some genius and it fell in the previous term; we had then explained to the head of the DOS parliamentary group, who said here a genius thought -- the opposition can't replace us, because the opposition didn't even choose the government. We listened to such brilliant sentences, but now I must say, since October 5th, we have had dozens of requests for the replacement of ministers and it was only once on the agenda, when it was Minister of Justice Batic. It was never on the agenda again, because someone said it afterwards – it doesn't have to be on the agenda anymore and we won't talk about it and we won't talk about it because it was an awkward discussion. What is the reason for this House? Why is there a National Assembly? For what you agree, the four party presidents who are at the head of your parliamentary groups, you agree, and it doesn't matter what the MPs say, what the opposition says or anything like that says. You don't like the subject, the government's doing well, and now we're gonna take it off the agenda. It offends citizens' intelligence, as it insults citizens' intelligence, when the BETA agency announces, and then some media transmit, say -- after 50 years, the first democratic elections in Iraq. There, 100 dead every day, trampled, destroyed the whole country, and the cold ones announce that the first democratic elections and all the media are broadcasting. They think the people are crazy. They want literally from each of us, it's not just that, whatever country you want to take and in any way, someone wants to do it from the citizens of Serbia. What they're saying is, people, you're not people, you're not even chimpanzees, you're orangutans. That's what you're trying to tell the citizens of Serbia right now, everyone, because no one else can do this, because there's never been anything like this. (President: Time. Let one of you lawyers come out, say where this used to be, where this happened in a similar way. I know it's time, Mr. President, I'm interrupting. I tried to show you, not at all, not to measure things, to the extent of our demand, why this is a problem for you to do today. I see you're determined not to give up on your idea. Please think again because this too will remain recorded, it will enter the annals of the National Assembly, and it would be good to do so, because here are four or five parliamentary groups in power, one will enter the Assembly, and the rest will not be next time. At least let those who do not enter the congregation think well that they may not be remembered after this. As far as we're concerned, we don't worry about it, the citizens of Serbia have seen everything. They saw who was afraid of the debate about the government, and as far as we're concerned, you'll only make us spend more power to work on the ground, to explain to the citizens of Serbia and to fight for the elections as soon as possible, where we'll beat you all together.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-24-0.u15827	Here you go, Mr. Hiber.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-24-0.u15828	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 199. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly are written in an indication, not in the contextal. He says that the National Assembly will debate, not that it can debate, or that it will decide whether to debate. There is no dispute that by putting on the agenda, the vote on a debate on the confidence of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is a serious violation of the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is true that such a violation of the Rules of Procedure, in a similar provision, and a violation of the Constitution, the National Assembly did so in the last term. She did, but one wrong decision, one ugly interpretation of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure does not give the right to continue. That was also understood by the assembly majority in the previous term, and in the autumn of 2003 trust was placed on the agenda for the president of the National Assembly and trust in the government. It's not worth it. You won't change the truth by throwing it away. It is not true that the debate on the government will waste the time it takes for progress, for reforms in Serbia. Just the other way around. If this debate opens, we will be able to discuss the reasons for it, that one of the central pre-election promises of the parties that make up the backbone in the government, which is the change in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, is not met. We may be able to find a common solution to the way the Constitution changes and the contents of the future constitution. We will also be able to see why our legal system and the judiciary do not change, where the obstacles are, and why we move Serbia forward. Instead, by pushing things under the carpet, by majorizing through a 128 figure, one "thin" number, ask Mr. Zivkovic how thin and dangerous it is, we only prevent reforms in Serbia from being carried out. Therefore, I suggest that the gentlemen of the position think again, accept the cast glove. If the opposition has no arguments, they will pay the price for asking for an argument in which there are no arguments. So go ahead. And if the opposition has arguments, then, as good citizens of this country, as responsible politicians, if nothing else, you will vote in confidence to the government by your majority, but you will be given an indication of how to change the policy you are leading. The election will come sooner or later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-24-0.u15829	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-24-0.u15830	Well, unfortunately, this is an opportunity to point out the violations of the Rules of Procedure, to point out to the citizens of Serbia what is happening in the National Assembly. In order not to receive a warning, I will refer to Article 199, which the previous speakers have specifically said should be interpreted, what is said, and I would also refer to Article 157 and Article 86, and point 5. The provisions that I have stated unequivocally state that the National Assembly must respect the Constitution’s prescribed minority right. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 93 has guaranteed minority rights in the National Assembly, and the Constitution itself has prescribed what these conditions are, making it difficult for the minority to exercise its right. And the right used by a minority of 20 MPs is to demand a debate and a decision on a proposal to vote non-trust with the government. It's a form of control of the executive government. A mistake is made here in continuity, which puts this item on the agenda. The second mistake that is being made here is that, according to some interpretation of the professional service, an emergency procedure is required to stand there. This doesn't require an emergency procedure. This is what the Constitution has prescribed for automation, by saying that the debate cannot begin before the three-day period is over, and within which time it has to end - is not prescribed. What stands in the Rules of Procedure, as a period of 3 to 15 days, only aims to speed up the inclusion in the agenda and debate about it, not to give someone the right to take off the agenda this item of the agenda. This item of the agenda is what protects the minority in the National Assembly. The minority in the National Assembly used its constitutional right, provided a proper number of signatures, made a proposal. The proposal is on the agenda and there is no vote. Because if you're interpreting it this way, then the president of the National Assembly should go to jail because he didn't hold the session within three to 15 days. Of course, no one sent him to jail. As we should seriously imagine, what the situation is when 200 MPs are waiting for the president in the hallway, because he is blocking the work of the state authority. He is not only a people's messenger, but you will see for yourselves, under certain conditions, and V.D. The President of the Republic and in any case the most responsible person, and the National Assembly cannot depend on his will - whether he will allow himself to enter or not. We don't get into what number of votes you get or lose in this debate, but the debate isn't decided. The Constitution guarantees it, and that's why you've done a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and let me warn you -- if you take down all the points of the agenda in the same way, then we don't have a day to vote. Think about how it's made up.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-24-0.u15831	Thank you. Here you are, Mrs. Stojcic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-24-0.u15832	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. MP, yes, we have come here to hear, among other things, some of the tyrannys of the MPs representing the opposition in this House, because the ruling majority, both in the Constitution and in the Rules of Procedure, is obliged to protect the rights of the minority; it is obliged to open a discussion on the topics which the representatives of the opposition parties in this Parliament want, because this right allows them the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That is also the right of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, whose members I call upon for this speaker. These are members of 199 and 28. Rules of Procedure, which have been broken by who knows which time. Mr. President, you who are calling for Parliament's dignity, the dignity of parliament and MPs, each individually and all together, are putting yourself in a position not to even put a point on the agenda that applies to you. I understand that you have an obligation, as a member of the ruling coalition, to, in some way, try not to put an end to the agenda of the government and individual ministers, but on 16 March 2005, the DS submitted a motion to resolve the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Predrag Markovic. And then, like today, Mr. President, you violated the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. Then, on February 17, 2005, in the National Assembly, the Labour Law was passed. On the same day, a source of the same Labour Act, which was submitted to the signing of the President of the Republic of Serbia, was also made. Following an insight into the text submitted to the President of the Republic of Serbia, it was found to be the most serious forgeries; it was the revision of four members of the Labour Act. I'll remind you - Articles 105, 108, 118 and 188. You tried, out of ignorance, what I doubt, or of intent, what I believe, to deceive both the people's MPs and the citizens of Serbia, that it was legal-technical changes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-24-0.u15833	I warn you not to insult the People's Messengers. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-24-0.u15834	President, I warn you that I did not insult the MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-24-0.u15835	I'm also a People's Messenger and I've never tried to deceive anyone. It's an insult. Be kind, choose your words, and now proceed...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-24-0.u15836	Of course, I can quote members of the law, although I'm sure you know them by heart and realize that there have been permutations between members 118 and 108, for very clear reasons. I will make only one example – that the cost of eating during work, so a warm meal and a regress would be taxed, although MPs in the National Assembly voted for amendments not to be taxed, which has a direct political benefit on the group you belong to, which controls finances in the Republic of Serbia, i.e. direct benefits on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. By moving the provisions of the amendments adopted from one member to another, the essence of the laws and the will of the MPs in the Republic's parliament is substantially changed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-24-0.u15837	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-24-0.u15838	That was an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-24-0.u15839	I'm sorry, I understand you're done since the time is up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-24-0.u15840	Of course I'm not finished. This is another proof that most can do anything. He can abuse democracy. He can disabling the Constitution. He can dissuade the congregation's jurisdiction. What surprises me is the fact that after so many arguments, which have been made for this speaker, after so many facts, that are uncontested that there is a fear of getting into the controversy around these points of the agenda, after so many accusations referred to individually and to the ministers and to every representative of the parliamentary group, that indeed none of the MPs, authorized representatives of the parliamentary groups, nor you, Mr Albianić, are, of course, looking at me, or at least try not to answer a little, which is why you are afraid to enter the dialogue. Neither did you, Mr. Angelkovic, who you were yesterday during the vote...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-24-0.u15841	Five minutes, please, complete the individual address to the MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-24-0.u15842	... Instead of voting – read the book, or representatives of the SPS parliamentary groups – Mr Dacic, and you, Mr Aligrudić, do not engage in the debate and let us at least a little chance to hear what is the reason why you do not allow us to have an argument. Of course, we recognize the government for certain moves it has made and of course we're pleased that it continued the way we started, and we got a feasibility study. But we also have objections, and we want to inform both you and the citizens of Serbia, and to try to convince all of you and the citizens of Serbia, based on the democratic capacity each MP has, that it is best to discuss the confidence of the government in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-24-0.u15843	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Pop-Lazic. Mr. Prince, does that mean you're answering the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. No problem. After Mrs Pop-Lazic, MP Gašo Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-24-0.u15844	Dear fellow Members of the People, I would like once again to warn the President of the Assembly of his obligation of respect, above all, the Constitution. And if he doesn't understand the fact that the Rules of Procedure foresees what the Constitution foresees, which is that the debate must begin, then it is Article 199 and 200. Rules of Procedure. In Article 199(3), it is said that the debate on the issue of trust to the Government or to an individual member is subject to the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, which relate to the final principles of discussion when considering the draft law. Therefore, only in that part are the provisions of this Rules of Procedure applied. Everything else is regulated by the Constitution. The proposal is drawn up in accordance with the Constitution of the Irasification must begin. It is symptomatic that you do not want a debate at this point, when, as a state, there is indeed a solution to the major problems related to both Kosovo and the future of our country. It's as if you want to somehow undetectablely go through everything this government does in relation to The Hague and the Hague prisoners, compared to those on the Hague warrants. And if you allow the debate, Vojislav Kostunica would already be here with his members of the government. And if Vojislav Kostunica respected parliament and respected the people's will, he would come here to look into the faces of the MPs, to wait for them to say what they have, and then as the people say, because we are the people's representatives here. What would you hear in that debate? You'd hear the role of the Vatican, and Germany and the United States in everything that's been going on for the past 15 years in these areas. Who are those who continue to finance The Hague, who are the ones who force you to cooperate with them in this way, because there is no co-operation. I don't know if you've been able to see on the UN tribunal's site what opportunities there are now to lead people to the UN tribunal. You had before - he surrendered voluntarily; you had – arrested; and now you have – and transferred. I don't know how it was transferred, I guess, like Happy Lukic, out of bed, so, uh, sick like that, from the apparatus transferred to The Hague. You would hear what a chain of command is; and respecting the fact that no one in any verdict has yet proven a chain of command responsibility; you would hear what a criminal association is; and now they have joined in crime some who have never been able to join in politically. If you have any political talent, you'll realize it's impossible. You're doing it this way, really, a banana state that only works on principle: everything that's in the interest of the West. You claim, of course, that The Hague is a condition of all conditions and that it is the future of our children and, if we make this concession, that our children will live better. And our children, our grandchildren, or great-grandsons, will not live better, because in this way you're just trying, and you're going to contribute to those you need to amnesty, and to NATO bombing, to amnesty and those in the state who dropped out of the war reparation suit. Remember that we have a lawsuit from Bosnia and Herzegovina, don't forget that we have Croatia's war damage suit. If that's a little problem for you, the generations that are coming will have a huge problem, and that's why we point out the issue of The Hague, as the main reason for the vote of mistrust to this government. I remind you, Mr. President, that you are responsible if you do not respect the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure allow you, i.e. it is fully in accordance with the Constitution, and the debate on this must begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-24-0.u15845	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Prince.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-24-0.u15846	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I will try to be brief. The motives for which the SRS has placed and proposed this item of the agenda differ from the motives for which the same thing is sought by the DS. It's legitimate for both of us. So it's legitimate that those who are the opposition are looking for a shift of power. I think I know what the motives of the ruling majority are to prevent it from being put on the agenda. We'd probably like to have time to go to a doctor's appointment with prism. That's how this government rules. They send kids to get filmed through some prisms. Just one little explanation, last night's DS vote was a desperate vote by people who are aware that, as far as enlightenment goes, it's a waste of time. That's how we voted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-24-0.u15847	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-24-0.u15848	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the question of the government's trust has finally come to the agenda, but it is obvious that someone's vote of no confidence in the government, or just the opening of the debate, is not responding. That's quite understandable. The predecessors highlighted and presented certain facts relating to the vote of mistrust and discussion and the debate to be held at this session. What would happen, ladies and gentlemen, if the government had tabled a motion to vote her mistrust. Would it be put on the agenda, as the SRS proposal is put, would it be voted on? No, I don't. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the provisions of Rules of Procedure, Rule 98, Article 99, and especially when it comes to Article 199(4), a vote of confidence shall be decided after the debate has been held. Therefore, it does not say anywhere that a debate on trust must be put on the agenda, so that it should be placed on the agenda in this way as it is today and that it would, after all, deny the motion to discuss the government's trust. If the government is sure that it works well, that it has credibility, let the government, for moral reasons, go to the Assembly and to parliament and let the explanation, let it answer. However, there is no answer on the proposal. No one has provided that answer or explanation from the government to the MPs and the National Assembly. It is strange to wait so long when it comes to the UN tribunal and when it comes to Kosovo. Why does the government support all requirements of the UN tribunal? Why is it that everyone wanted by The Hague tribunal is delivered to us, why is there an unwritten right to apply to the globe? Whether in any country even provisions of ordinary law are applied, where a criminally united enterprise is invented. If the views of those seeking from The Hague were to be accepted, half of Serbia would have to be held accountable on their alleged basis, for which the SRS president, Professor Vojislav Seselj, is also charged. He is charged with a verbal delinquent, and for a verbal delinquent in democratic Europe and the European Union, especially those who argue that as soon as we apply the provisions and standards of the EU and the Performance Studies, they do not prevent and reject such requirements. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow the debate on The Hague tribunal, we open the cards, we prevent anything that goes to Serbia's harm, because Serbia has done a lot of things in recent years. Let us no longer allow merchants to trade with us and not allow us to defend ourselves, because no one's rights and no one's interests have put Serbia and the Serbian people at risk. So, let's open the debate, gentlemen of the government, step out here for the rest of the day, lay down your accounts, and you'll be supported.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-24-0.u15849	People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić, then the Messenger of the people Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-24-0.u15850	Article 28 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, which provides for the President of the National Assembly to carry out the tasks provided for in the Constitution, chair meetings of the National Assembly, shall take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, care for the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies, etc. The application of the Institute of Distrust is a constitutional category and the subject of regulation of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, so that there is no possibility of arbitration and decision-making on whether or not to discuss the mistrust of the Government. Article 93(4) The constitution decedifiedly regulates that a vote on the non-trust of the Serbian government must be held within not less than three days. The Rules of Procedure also envisions a discussion of the government's mistrust within no shorter than three days, and no longer than 15 days. However, this has already been elaborated and said for this speaker. I'd just like to remind the ruling majority, seeing as they're uninformed, that they passed the Government Act yesterday. That's what you gentlemen adopted, where you yourselves predicted that they would vote against the government in no less than three days and no longer than 15 days. If you don't want that debate, I don't know how you're going to apply that government law you adopted yesterday. That's what you gentlemen of the ruling majority adopted, and I don't know why you're running away from discussing the government's mistrust, when you've predicted it yourself. You don't seem to have any intention of applying that government law that you adopted yesterday, not even 12 hours ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-24-0.u15851	Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-24-0.u15852	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by article 100, I would like to preserve the dignity of the National Assembly, so in this sense I call on the representatives of the regime that has been harassing the country by 2004 to no longer go out for a pay phone and not accuse themselves. So let's focus on whether there's going to be a debate or not; not to mention how the children are being educated; because you avoided a debate about the government when we were supposed to talk about it; not to mention the economy, you voted for 80% of the government's laws here, just wait to vote whether this is going to go into the agenda. We're giving up more of calling you to your senses, waiting for you to hurt the drastic constitution and Rules of Procedure by voting. I expected one of you to have the courage to sign Mr. Aligrudic at one request, which was due three days ago to arrive at the Assembly, and to suggest that this point be removed from the agenda. I expected you to have at least so much courage to defend your government and your president. And you insidiously, none of you asked to remove that item from the agenda; you would be happy to discuss it, only the Assembly did not vote on the agenda. Let's see if you're ready and that, after the night we worked here together, invite us to a session that you know won't be held. We will no longer answer the word, we have pointed out all the injuries, it remains as far as we are concerned to approach this famous vote, and I call on the public of Serbia to comment on today's session and today's process of the ruling majority, which finally wiped out democracy from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-24-0.u15853	It is the president's duty to inform again about the way he has scheduled this session, although I have done it several times, as the Rules of Procedures have been set out correctly by the MPs. They normally explain exactly the situation in which the speaker of the assembly found himself, in an effort to respect members of the Rules of Procedure, who are often in collegiate. You've heard from the presentation of distinguished predecessors. Therefore, the Constitution stipulates that this debate cannot be opened on this issue within a short period of three days. The Rules of Procedure of Rule 1 states that this Rules of Procedure regulates the organisation and work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the way in which the rights and duties of Members of Parliament are exercised. The president must respect the rights of all MPs of the National Assembly, because the Rules of Procedure do not foresee the position and opposition. When this agenda point arrived as a proposal, the session had already begun. Article 95 clearly states that the president must complete one session until all points are concluded. In contrast, I have informed the MPs that the day after the sitting is over, because I have to respect the Rules of Procedure, a session will be scheduled to take place on the agenda. And now on the agenda you have those points that obliged the President of the Assembly to put them on the agenda. These are the four points and two that someone was talking about, because he didn't read the Rules of Procedure. So, the question of trust to the President of the Assembly is not in any way arranged by the Rules of Procedure when it is put on the agenda and we have already spoken about it, and by respecting the strict Rules of Procedure, I have read – as much as the President of the Assembly represents the National Assembly, the National Assembly decides on the agenda. Article 86(1) says - the session agenda is determined by the National Assembly. I have full confidence that the MPs will take care of it, of everything we've heard, and that I have to respect the decisions of the National Assembly, and I must not go forward on my own to assume anything. Since we have made a statement on the proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure, pursuant to Article 86(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. For 115, against 126, five out of 246 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not set the agenda for the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005 as a whole. Since the National Assembly has not established the agenda of the session, and during the course of the session it has been pointed to violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which the National Assembly is to vote on, in accordance with Article 81(3) and in relation to Article 96(4). I am determining the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 24 May 2005, immediately, as a voting day, to decide on the violations of the Rules of Procedure. We approach the vote on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, by a reminder that is before us. National MP Dusan Petrovic, at a session on 24 May 2005, at 13.30 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 199. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare whether the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 127, it did not vote 8 out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, at a session on 24 May 2005, at 13.35 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 199. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and infringements of Articles 73 and 93 The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare whether the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. The Constitution is not voted on, of course, only by the Rules of Procedure. Against 126, there were no votes of 8 out of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Aleksandar Vlahovic, at a session on 24 May 2005, at 13.45 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 199. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare whether the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 126, there were no votes of 8 out of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Gordana Komic, at a session on 24 May 2005, at 13.50 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 28. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare whether the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 125, 9 did not vote, out of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Aleksandar Vukic, at a session on 24 May 2005, at 13.55 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 100. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare whether the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 127, it did not vote 7, out of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dragor Hiber, at a session on 24 May 2005, at 1400 hours, pointed to a violation of article 199. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare whether the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 126, there were no votes of 8 out of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Krasic, at a session on 24 May 2005, at 14.05 p.m., pointed to a violation of Articles 199, 157 and 86 of Section 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare whether the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 128, six of the 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, at a session on 24 May 2005, at 14.10 p.m., pointed to a violation of Articles 199 and 28. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare whether the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 126, there were no votes of 8 out of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, at a session on 24 May 2005, at 14.15 p.m., pointed to a violation of Articles 199 and 200. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare whether the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 127, six out of 133 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Gašo Knezevic, at a session on 24 May 2005, at 14.20 p.m., pointed to a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but did not specify a member. I ask the Members of Parliament to decide whether the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Against 125, 9 did not vote, out of 134 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Petar Jojic, at a session on 24 May 2005, at 14.23 p.m., pointed to a violation of Articles 198 and 199. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare whether the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 126, there were no votes of 8 out of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vojislav Milajic, at a session on 24 May 2005, at 14.25 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 28. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare whether the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 127, it did not vote 7, out of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, at a session on 24 May 2005, at 14.30 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 100. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare whether the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 127, it did not vote 7, out of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. As we voted on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, I conclude the fourth session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Unofficially, I would like to inform you that this is the last session in a regular session. We expect the MPs to schedule an extraordinary session for Monday with their signatures, which is 30 May 2005. Thank you for your patience.
