ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17210	Mr. Chairman, in principle, I don't mind speaking, because the citizens of Serbia who are following the direct transfer of the Assembly will hear what I have to say, but allow some elemental order in the hall not to have this much marble and sawdust, or stop until conditions are obtained. I would like my colleagues to hear me, hear the position of the Serbian Radical Party when it comes to public debt law, because the public debt of the Republic of Serbia or, viewed in a broader context, the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, is something that will be plagued, unfortunately, by many future generations in Serbia. We will talk about it through arguments and through facts that are inexorable, which tell us that Serbia really is a heavily overindebted country and that the essence of all the key problems in the foreign debt of our country is the lack of opportunity, except for the alleged favors of the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, which are not at all, but are the mere observers of the situation here, to reduce this debt. To reduce it, the country would go through economic and any other progress, of course, that it is necessary to do much more than the negotiating roles of individuals at the top of the DOS, which was then attended by the governor of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Mladjan Dinkic. But the citizens of Serbia don't have much of it, because the information that the minister of the barata these days is simply not true. We'd like it to be different. Everyone would love it, regardless of what we are a party to the opposition, but Serbia is also that the over-indebted country and debt crisis are not only threatening us because of the fact that we are in enormous debt. That's what DOS officials have been doing since 2000, because it has not arrived (citizens have been deceived) six billion-dollar grant, but also because this external trade deficit and the relationship between these world organisations and America, which is the only one with an effective veto in the IMF, so that they see us as a small and undeveloped country in the Balkans, Southeast Europe, which needs to meet unspeakably all their conditions when it comes to monetary policy, and that nothing happens here in return. They can't watch it, they're quarterlyally receiving reports from those who run it, and they're very bad. It's about the governor and the Minister of Public Finance of our country. That's how we spin in circles. If you look at the analysis, and in recent days, of certain groups of economists (some of them are also close above all to the Democratic Party of Serbia in the pre-election campaign, and now they have moved to another camp), you will see that the situation in Serbia is very bad because of the fact that this debt crisis is not threatening us, but we are in it, because this amazing figure, ranging from 12 billion to 14 billion external debt, something that our economy and citizens of Serbia cannot withstand at the moment. This law tries to further regulate the state and in the survival of ours, in the business of those funds in Article 1. The bill reportedly allows the public debt to be serviced and prescribed that it will return and regulate the conditions, manner and procedure of borrowing of the Republic of Serbia, the territorial autonomy units and local self-government; then, the Republic Health Insurance Institute, pension and disability insurance funds, etc. National Employment Services (I say so-called, because this is a new term introduced by Minister Lalovic) of public enterprises and other legal entities, whose founder is the Republic of Serbia. Here, everything in this first article has been defined, but we Serbian radicals believe that this law is completely unnecessary because other laws, the Law on Local Self-Government, a law governing the establishment of public enterprises, the founder of which is the Republic, regulates the relations between local self-government units to the republican authorities, public enterprises to the Republic, whose founder is it. We Serbian radicals intend to convince you today through all these arguments from the ruling coalition to withdraw this law from the procedure, that is to recommend it to the minister, who is the only one who has the power to do so and to devote much more to it, from the local level of government, where we radicals have found a chaotic state, after the robbery by the Democratic Party, through the republican level of government, through public enterprises, what are the basic problems that the authorities have to solve. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, just to mention the leading mob duo Hamovic and Lazarevic, the power went out, but Serbian citizens know very well that, in addition to all these monetary and electricity shocks, these are not the last, unfortunately, who have stricken them in a row. I have reached Minister Lalovic, who, however, has no direct track record with these two mobsters, who are in charge of electrical energy, or for the robbery of citizens and electricity, but what I wanted to tell you was one great fear, which is present these days both with pensioners and those who are near that age line, due to the announced reform of the pension system in our country. We're going back to the beginning of my story and I'm going to finish the presentation on this amendment by Mr. Avramov, who also found chaos in the municipality of Shid, where the president is and therefore is, of course, justifiably absent today from the National Assembly session. So we come to their policy and their relationship to the ruling set in our country and to the processes that are set as something that this government allegedly has to do to get positive signals. So, pensioners, who are under pressure from the former dossal authorities because of the way pensions are accounted for and are affected by the fact that their pensions in nominal amounts are much less, and those who need to retire are concerned about the fact that this new, so-called and served reform, above all by these international financial organisations, will hit many of them and reduce their pensions. People who, under the current laws of that period, expect, six or nine years old, how long you plan to reform the pension system, don't see themselves, can't fit because it's simply not humane to these people. It's something that's unsustainable in a country where it's economy and how it's rocked, where people don't have the ability to work normally for wages that they can secure their own existence and that they can retire peacefully. That, unfortunately, is not the case in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17211	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17212	I would like to remind these experts who are stimulating the incursions of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, from your Vučetić, when they evaluated the constitutionality of the Law on the Way and Procedure of the Change of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. They unequivocally made it clear in that decision that the words "way" and "action" have the exact same meaning. Of course, Dinkic is ignorant and everyone knows it, but let me remind you that in the first article these geniuses wrote: "This law regulates the conditions, the way and the procedure", and "the way" and "the procedure" are synonyms, so now it states what is meant by the Republic, the units of local self-government, etc. "of other legal entities, whose founder is the Republic, giving guarantees to the Republic, the way and procedure of managing public debt and keeping public debt records." Article 1 regulates the content of this proposed law. In principle, we drew attention to the government's representative that we need a law, perhaps under a different name, which would firstly regulate the terms and procedures of borrowing, not only of the state but of all the legal entities. It used to be scattered in two or three laws. One earlier was called financing the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and the other was called the Foreign Credit Relations Act, so that practically this kind of omnibus law was governed by the overall definition of the borrowing strategy and all those issues that go parallel to it. The basic lack of this law is that it is partial, quite general in its provisions and we do not see on the basis of which criteria determine how much this state can be in debt. There is no limit here, either in terms of gross social product, or in terms of some manuality, or in terms of an upper or lower anchor based on which macro-economic policy is ultimately designed. These are serious shortcomings, because this will essentially mean a verse, especially those solutions where the minister gives some opinion on some borrowing. Of course, with this amendment, we disagree with this bill, but we also point to these illogicalities, proven illogicalities. So if it's a text of the law, then whoever does the text of the law would have to bear in mind even the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. I must remind you that these decisions are binding. How? They commit to a concrete law, including the way and procedure of changing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which has been assessed as unconstitutional, but thus obliges those who write the law to have that opinion in mind and to interpret what the words "mode" and "action" in the title of a law mean. So here experts basically show us that they don't know anything, they don't read anything, they watch some translation, something to banish, something to fly around here, to provide those around 130, maybe more, hands to raise, because they count that 130 and something to guarantee everyone, that constitutional, legal, possible, is normally feasible. As you can see, there's already evidence that this can't be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17213	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17214	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SRS Group today will try to convince you not to vote in favour of the government's draft public debt law. You have already heard the initial arguments, from the fact that this law is unconstitutional, and to all the details that we will talk about individually through amendments, because we have submitted amendments to all the members of the law, because in this way we wanted to show our principled position that you should not pass such a law, because this law is not good for Serbian citizens, it is not good for Serbia's economy, it is not good for Serbia. All our amendments stem from the amendment to Article 1, which has already been spoken of by colleagues and the amendment to Article 2. I submitted the bill because we think that both this member and the other members should not be contained, or that this law should not be passed. And again today, we have a debate on one significant law, and we do not have a representative of the ministry, or Minister Dinkic; he comes here according to his old manners, says three sentences about the bill and is no longer interested in participating in the work, hearing the MPs, convincing us that he is right or convincing him that we are right. I hope that you who, even though you do not have to sit and participate in the work, will have the understanding and that you will accept the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party MPs. When we talked about this law in principle, I suppose you remember (and this was the law in some package that the minister unpacked here, there were 12 laws), mostly, the minister told us that since he was a minister, since this government, about, the state of the country is stabilised, it's better for everyone, except that people haven't noticed it yet. He says the government is now taking less credit, there's no need for us to be in debt anymore, and then, despite these findings, he's proposing a law, or he's giving himself powers that no one has seen, except in this law, which we'll talk about when we talk about Article 5, and he's proposing public debt management, and we'll talk about it when it comes to the agenda. In the light of this law, it says - the reasons for the adoption of this law are contained, above all, in the need to define the conditions, the ways and procedures in which the Republic of Serbia can be in charge, as well as the need to prescribe ways and procedures in which territorial autonomy and local self-government, the Republic Institute, etc. can be entrusted. So, I asked the minister when he was here, I ask you now, and I ask him, if he ever read or listens to what we're saying today -- which is why the Republic of Serbia has been in charge so far, and how he as a minister could owe us a year and a half if there was no legal basis, because he himself said that it was not legal. Will he answer because he brought Serbia into a debt crisis because he continued the path of previous Finance Minister Bozidar Djelic? They're just borrowing us. They're still borrowing us. For the first months of DOS rule, we've been bombarded with information in the media that we're getting some favourable loans, we're getting donations, but all with a grace period of three, four, five, six, and more years. Citizens at first did not know what a grace period was, since it was modern at the time to be used: transparent, transition, grace period, as if the foreigners themselves had come to power in Serbia. However, they have been trained abroad to destroy Serbia and do it successfully and have only successfully done it and continue to do it. So this Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic seem to be seriously angry with the Assembly, they're going to cut our power again. Something's wrong. So, when it was explained to the citizens in which we are in debt, then it was successfully hiding the truth that Serbia had to pay back those debts, that already that grace period for some debts had begun to expire, and for some it would only expire and that grace period would only mean a postponement for a certain period of payment of all these debts. The saddest thing in the whole story, here for almost five years, is that the government owes us huge debts that literally just ran through the Republic of Serbia's budget. If the government had run some normal policy in the interests of citizens, in the interest of the economy, in Serbia's interest, if they had taken favourable loans to invest in production, to restore technology, to hire citizens, to restore and start new production, we would not comment and we would not be against it. To take loans just to fill the budget and spend so much money on budget spending, it's really outrageous and it's terrible; for these reasons every newborn child in Serbia today is born with debt, it seems to me to be $15, economists say. All economists and all the people in the profession say – we are not threatened by the debt crisis, because Serbia is in a debt crisis, it is in debt slavery. All citizens know it, only government representatives say it is not true, only Minister Dinkic says it is not true, that we should not be afraid, there is no crisis, we are not over-indebted. And what happens and what everyone knows in Serbia is the fact that every day more and more unemployed, that citizens have nothing to live on, that pensioners are already slowly shrinking, that they're afraid that their pensions will be completely abolished, and then one minister says yes, the other says not now, but in two years, so who survives. So, budget beneficiaries are unhappy, every day threatened by strike and health workers and educators, and representatives of the government, on the other hand, say – who doesn't want to work freely can take a work book, threaten to quit. So, I guess it's never happened in this Serbia, and nowhere does that happen the government's attitude towards the citizens, towards the people who chose us above all in this Parliament, and we government; no one cares, no one shows interest in fixing anything in Serbia. Everyone is aware of what is happening and every day it is written, every day we meet, we MPs, at least from the SRS, we are covered with letters, citizens' invitations, what the field is doing, what representatives are doing, Dinkic is preying on the administrations of revenues in Serbia, but I guess all of this meets the criteria of this government, meeting the criteria of the Prime Minister. We continue to receive unambiguous proposals from the Serbian government and when we write an amendment to delete Article 2, then the government's explanation says - the amendment is not accepted because it is necessary to define precisely the meaning of the terms used in this law. They just discovered a hole in a pothole, like we don't know what debt means, which means public debt, which means borrowing, guarantees, counterguarantee. This is all contained in Article 2, so that the law has as many members as possible and that it would be like a serious law, so that the Government can present it to us. Of course, we know that this is not a serious law, that this law will continue to be in debt, that debt will now be taken into account by Minister Dinkic alone, and it is difficult for Serbia if it is Minister Dinkic who will have the fate of citizens and decide whether we will take loans and what loans. So, I am convinced that all MPs, or most of the MPs, share the opinion of the Serbian Radical Party, because mostly in the talks outside this hall, most of you are aware that what Minister Dinkic is doing is not good for Serbia, that the laws they propose are not good solutions, that they lead us further to ruin. So I urge you to accept the amendments of the SRS in the voting day; since the minister is not here to ask him and to explain to him why he should withdraw this proposal, then at least you should vote in favour of our amendments in the day of voting, which means that this law and this law are not passed, and let the government suggest a serious text, a comprehensive one, not so casually, not in general, so that we talk seriously about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17215	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17216	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe, if most of you had the text of the Law on Public Debt and looked at Article 2 that Mrs. Radeta asked to be deleted, like everyone else, and especially the lawyers from your MPs, it would seem not only ridiculous and some grotesque, but really humiliating for the National Assembly and for the most legislative body to pass such laws. At the level of textbooks for the first class of economic school, the meaning of the term in Article 2 is defined, so it says – some expressions used in this law have the following meaning. Something that you from this modern Corps would say is more foolish than I've ever seen! It is truly amazing that this is how the ruling set is played and the minister with the MPs, our patience, and above all with the citizens. Where they were charged with so much debt and none of the reprogrammes and service in the way that Djindjic, Zivkovic, Djelic and then Mladjan Dinkic promised to do so, we are now making out with such laws where these concepts are defined. You can see that the situation is no good to you, because the negotiating role of this ruling set, just like the previous ones, is not as they promised you in the campaign before the 2000 elections, because they then raised you to the highest possible level of alleged reform and democratic processes, so that you would quickly and how you fell down, with unfavourable arrangements offered by these world organizations. At the first moment, you may think it was good, and you are facing problems how poorly-led business policy in our country is yes, and especially you who inherited this Dosmanian power, because those others have heard and seen that only radicals can be prepared and responsible with such angels to negotiate this would not occur, but after time has elapsed and we have already entered the second half of 2005, their demands, the inevitability of the shock therapy is growing and greater. So they say that the price liberalisation, as they imagine it, is not continued at the pace they ask of you. You went so far as not only because of these two criminals Hamovic and Lazarevic, but because of the fact that everything hangs at your end because of the restructuring of the Elektroprivreda, you should once again prepare to buy them for the bagatella, for a much lower value, so you flew and speeded up so much price increases in kilowatt hours of electricity that it is indeed an electric shock and impact for every average Serbian host. If I've given you good information that only in Kragujevac is the population of more than 20,000 dinars, then how do you think people are going to get into the next heating season with so many debts? Apparently a reprogramme and a favourable condition for external debt service was given to you by the IMF. What do you show up in front of citizens? With new demands, because it's not what you promised, because they're looking for more and more now. These are the data they presented to themselves. If they told all of you, because you are all part of this once unique DOS and were not the president of the current government at the head of that list, they would never have come to power, everyone else, that direct foreign investment at these initial projected levels will be in the next five years and we have come – citizens in spite of the hard pain, and we have cleared up in our political struggle with you and now you see really who, that they were the only leading and real force in the country to prevent it – to see you now being asked for 16.7%, and in the second half of 2005, from a gross social product to single out that external debt, from the initial 3.6, then you see how you were dragged into the shock by a spider web by the IMF and the World Bank. What do we pay for when they're not running economic flows, when there's been a drop in industrial production? On this and other data, I will continue to follow other amendments, but we Serbian radicals must from the assembly speaker only facts and the real state of affairs to address citizens, so that we know what is ahead, by turning the list completely and in a different way leading foreign and internal financial policy at the moment when citizens show us trust, and I believe that it will be very soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17217	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17218	If this law were to have a completely different context, then it would probably be legal for Article 3 of this proposal and could survive in such a legal project. In this project, it cannot survive, because the whole of this law is not good and this amendment is therefore submitted requiring the erasure of Article 3 and he says that the Republic can be in debt in the country and abroad, i.e. on the domestic and foreign markets. Of course, this benign formulation in another context of the essence of another law can pass, however, it cannot pass. What you're trying to indicate is what it represents, how it's interpreted and what it means to have certain words used in this law cannot reflect the true essence, both conceptual and theoretical, which is present when it comes to terms, and especially to reflect the essence of what this law regulates. In Article 2(2) point (1), you state that the debt is a monetary obligation or an obligation to pay off the debt. Debt's due. Achievement is potential as a condition for debt. If something didn't come, then it's not a debt, it's just a commitment. The manual factor you skipped, and it is very significant, and of course then there are errors in continuity, so as a public debt, with the intention that the word "public" means state, then you go on and say – the debt of the Republic that arises from a contract that concludes the Republic. The following sub-point – the debt of the Republic based on securities of value, the debt of the Republic under the contract, or the agreement which reprograms the obligations, etc. You see, if you accept your logic that you apply to the concept of debt, then you don't reprogram the obligations, but you reprogram the debt. You messed up the appointments, because obviously someone who has no idea wrote this law. Under this sub-point (5) ′′ long local government′′, and in general this is meant by the borrowing of AP and local self-government, ′′ as well as by the legal persons of Article 1 of this Act′′, public enterprises of the Republic's interest, ′′ for which the Republic gave the guarantee; what did you put in this – for which the Republic gave guarantees, when all these entities you listed are doing business and using funds in the possession of the Republic of Serbia? Thank God, there is no such thing in the Republic of Serbia, and I hope this idea of tearing and transferring certain rights of use and management and making available from the Republic to local self-government and the AP will not live. We have a law on funds in the possession of the Republic of Serbia. The Republic is the owner, and all property rights, all property powers on behalf of the Republic are exercised by the Government, and what concerns rights of use and management under some degree of supervision is in the Republic of Serbia's Property Directorate. Why did you put a guarantee in here? You guarantee funds anyway, because local self-government works by means of the property of the Republic of Serbia. There's got to be something to know when you're writing the law. Don't write like this, because this is how you get confused, because now it comes out that local self-government can be in charge without the Republic giving a guarantee. How can local self-government be in charge and assume certain obligations, as a legal person, without asking the Republic that exercises property rights and property powers over funds used by local self-government? It's not a logic problem here, it's a problem of ignorance. You've got some expert intern with high marks he got at Drago Hiber's on the phone, but the kid doesn't know anything, or you have a bad translator who's translated something, so in continuity you're still going and you're showing in all the members, in fact, that you don't know what the debt is. The debt came in cash, and the debt came in non-money if it can be expressed in money, and then it's debt. You're mixing what it means to be in charge and what it's debt. We might be in charge, so there's a grace period, then payment, so there's a date to which something has to be done. If it's not done by that date, then there's a debt. You've got it all wrong. You're confused because you like to terrorize the word public debt. I must remind you that in this country at least five times, not in such a general way, but in individual laws, certain claims are regulated to the system that they become a public debt of the Federation. It seems to me that it was 1994 for a large number of agriculture firms, and mainly in Vojvodina; they were so in charge that if they were to serve those obligations they had on the basis of borrowing, they would not actually exist. Their interest obligations, etc. exceeds the value of the asset. The state estimated that if she charged for it from those combinations, she would practically kill those combined ones, which would be far greater damage. Then the state took over their commitment to the business banks, and it transformed it into a public debt. It's a completely different story and there's a reason to use the word public debt. Here you have the wrong name of the law and what follows, of course, you know, when the house has no foundation, don't put the roof on, because it will certainly collapse. That'll be with this law, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17219	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17220	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Zankov, the term and way of future borrowing of the Republic of Serbia is further defined here, and we are now told, imagine, please, that this is a fantastic discovery, that we can be in charge of domestic and foreign currency. It's like someone's borrowing in some other way on the capital and money market on the international market and in the world at all. But let's also accept that you wanted to teach the MPs, who are the only ones legally legitimate to pass these and these laws. But then we go back to what kind of exchange rate is, what is the domestic currency, how much we're in charge, and why is no more important progress expected in that sense, because it's the topic we've been dealing with all day yesterday. There is no critical mass of goods for export, there is no mass, let alone a critical one, which would be enough to improve the ratio of domestic and foreign currencies. Because, only in the first three years since you started with a policy of a stable exchange rate, the dinar, which economists would say, is depressed against the foreign currency by 10, 20, and now calculate (there are both economists and mathematicians and various accountants) as compared to 2001, if the purchase rate is 84 dinars, and compare it to the growth of gross social product, i.e. stagnation, inflation, and exports, so with the volume of industrial production, and get to the point that it's not what you promised the citizens. I'm talking to you again, like that shortened DOS, because you're all heirs to the policy that was led from early 2001 to March 2004 when you took over. It's impossible to go blind on everything, because many countries are in so-called. The transition, which is why Stiglic wrote a lot and spoke about, and that's why he won the Nobel Prize for Economics, burned and destroyed his citizens and their industry, production for accepting everything that came from the IMF and the World Bank. If they ask you for a more flexible approach to the labour market and you blindly agree to it, and that's what Lalovic was talking about last night, and whenever he comes in here, he shows up and says, "That's how many people get fired, so much severance so much, you'll-you won't, go for whatever you know, it took a little bit of you who promote such a policy run by the current finance minister and the government in general to ask around and look at all the troubles and what the problems have brought to the countries that did it. It's simply not good, because you don't use internal resources and potentials at all; without talking about using them in the wrong way, what little is used, and not talking further and not repeating the thousands of times that in the context of the restructuring of EPS and NIS is preparing another big robbery. When these Serbian tycoons rob and pick it up, what are you going to do next and what the state can offer to future generations that are yet to be born here and to stand up and stay alive? These are all issues that are much more effective and rationally dealt with by the government, and apparently this one is in no condition to do so. This exchange rate policy was aimed at stabilising the nominal exchange rate of the dinar, but the way this fluctuating accounting course from sales to purchase is something that makes it clear to you that the inflation that was designed is not what you imagined, but is just dictated on the market, which is nevertheless a certain way of hairstyled. You are aware that even the course of the euro, if you look at the situation in the economy, is much greater than that which is shown and which is in a certain way artificially held. That is why it is necessary for each responsible authority, especially in Serbia, to achieve real economic shifts, shifts and shifts in the direction of a complete macroeconomic policy. None of you have asked you to give up full co-operation, nor has it ever been advocated by the Serbian Radical Party, with international institutions, especially with potential direct foreign investors willing to invest in our country. But if you've promised citizens, and you've all been part of that unique DOS, one way or another, outside Parliament and parliament, that direct foreign investment will be in the range of over $500 million and greenfield projects each month at three or four large, with a great possibility of employment. Yesterday, you all heard on TV that only one of them was started, and that's Metromarket in Serbia, which is not something spectacular, given that this was the first charge of capital accumulation in that chain, in the sales network, and that I don't know how many people we should be overjoyed about it, then worry, first of all, about that fact. Because this internationally mandatory external debt of Serbia should be serviced in a different way, and this is impossible by taking all the more unfavourable loans and debts that Labus was prone to as vice-president of the federal government, and now he has the same thoughts in that direction, when it comes to the IMF, and as vice-president of the Serbian government. We think it's a completely wrong method, that the economies of many countries, these post-socialist ones, are destroyed because of such a way of handling and thinking. You must be aware of the fact that, above all, the IMF, where only America has an effective veto, as a powerful and powerful military and economic force, is constantly asking you to sit in this way and with this agenda in July, in August, maybe throughout the year, to stand by all these laws, to make them more and more pointless, but more suitable to them. That's why, on the other hand, they are not in fear, but they stand down when they see and say: the transition process (as they call it, which is, in fact, the destruction of domestic economy and economy) was not done as quickly as we expected of them. That's why you're getting more and more pressured, so they're giving you the deadlines you need to stick to, and look for yourself to resort to some of those disastrous Djelic laws you inherited, you have to change. We said those laws were bad. You see that the state is getting more and more dug up, because the indicators are like that, and they're not going to be the IMF, the World Bank and the World Trade Organisation waiting for you to cry on their shoulders. They demand that it be done, you do it unspeakably, and on the other hand, citizens really complain about their fate and the fact that they have no job and that they have not created an ambience and conditions for the economy to move in the right sense of the word. Just one piece of information, that in so many years you have only one greenfield project in all of Serbia, and that's the famous Metro, I guess it's enough for you to realize that there's not a thousandth of what you've promised the citizens, both from those and from this government, because of the legacy with the predecessors that you've been with a lot, and especially when it comes to economies and finances, you've agreed, because and when it comes to national and state interests, you don't give up much of the Democratic Party's thinking, which is indeed one of the most devastating options for Serbia, for its citizens and its future. In addition, yesterday's stages and the day-to-day behaviour of the president of the republic, which is the party's president, are saying enough that this is one devastating effect on Serbian national tissue, economy and economy. Everything they've done now has effects that are extremely unfavourable for both the state and society.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17221	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17222	This member was tried by the government to arrange an area that was authorised to be in charge, so she prescribed what the National Assembly is doing: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia decides to borrow the Republic through long-term loans, in debt to finance investment projects, in providing guarantees and counter-guarantee, as well as to take direct commitments in the capacity of debtors on the basis of a guarantee." What would we assume and decide by law if the Republic gave the guarantee and decided on it by the National Assembly? When a guarantee is activated, why would the Republic take the responsibility? But, come on, that's not the main problem with this member. The main problem with this article is that an unbalanced and wrongly distributed right to decide on any type of borrowing, the way of borrowing. That's what attitude 3 says: "The government of the Republic of Serbia decides to broadcast long-term state records of value, if the law is not different." That's where the government ends up. Now there goes what is extremely dangerous, which could mean that if adopted, we accept something that is essentially abuse. Much more powers are attached than possible and what is needed in the hands of a minister. Note the 4th position, which says "Minister in charge of Finance Affairs", in the following text: Mladjan Dinkic, "determins the taking of short-term loans to finance the budget deficit... ". Short-term loans to finance the budget deficit are those loans ending by the end of the current financial year. So, by December 31st this year, the minister can do whatever he wants. Although, he boasts he has a surplus, which means he doesn't need to use this tool. He goes on to say, "... on the acquisition of current liquidity deficits and for the refinance of public debt, as well as public debt, the debt of the Republic, and the autonomous province, and local self-government and republican public enterprises, "as well as the broadcasting of short-term state securities of value", which are, as a rule, charters that come within a shorter period of one year. It was small, so what goes on now: "Minister of Finance", there is no more – the finance minister responsible, "is the only one empowered", when the only authority is said, it comes to him as a God-given, "that on behalf of the Government", Mladjan Dinkic, on behalf of the entire government, is a coalition government, which means that the entire coalition government is not asking anything, "and for the account of the Republic contracts borrowing and closing credit agreements", everything in the jurisdiction of the Republic, he is the only one empowered, negotiates, negotiates, and he is authorized to conclude the contract, "that is, he broadcasts state securities of value". He's broadcasting state records of value! This is where we talked about these long-term things, and state securities of value can be both short- and long-term, the government decides. It's too much for one man if we just think of some of the thesis that we've mentioned over the past three days, all of which is the minister of finance's jurisdiction. You know what, we have a bit of luck with this finance minister. He doesn't have as many assistants as that Lalovic. Lalovic has ten assistants and two deputies, at least I'm so informed. It's surrounded by 12 people, it's dawn. I don't think the Pope in the nearest environment has that many cardinals. If we were to follow these issues of authority, rights and duties of the finance minister, as the man who heads the finance ministry, he should probably have 250 assistants and deputies, because so many areas he has to follow everything, as a genius. He goes on, he says, "Extremely from Article 5 of this article's position, to conclude a loan agreement, i.e. for the emission of state securities of value, the finance minister can by way of a solution empower the appointed person in the ministry responsible for finance affairs." What's important that he can, and yet another solution? Isn't that the matter of the State Administration Act? Isn't that the matter of the Civil Service Act? Then why were you putting this in here, and why did you have the potential? The minister can determine Vesna Arsic by his decision, which means about that. And without this member, he can do it. Why do you have to point that out? The following text says, "Secret." And too much authority for an ordinary mortal, he just needs to understand that he's just a mortal, because it has some dimensions. But it fits into that concept that we have been explaining for days, and it is not easy for us to keep repeating what the concept is – everything under control, under the hat of one party and under the hand of one man. There's been a problem on the media these few days. Minister Dinkic’s practice was: 10 - 15 days before the National Assembly session, he explained in detail what he had suggested to the National Assembly. When the debate takes place in the National Assembly, he then performs media with other topics. Yesterday accidentally, for example, it concluded that it was the conclusion of that contract to sell that bank to that Slovenian bank. It happened that there was the last president of the former SFRY to visit the last president of the state community (as they were on the same path – after me no more); Mesic, who was 150,000 Serbs from around Zagreb and these places, where there were no armed conflicts, expelled as Prime Minister. They were evicted from work, police, state services, the rabbit family, etc. With high state honors, two of the last presidents were in Belgrade. Mladjan Dinkic successfully sold the bank, as we heard, several times more expensive than the bank's book value. But there's no one here to explain this. That is how the work of the National Assembly is marginalized, and this Rules of Procedure, which reads - dear MPs, sat or did not sit in this assembly, will be as Labus and Mladjan Dinkic decided.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17223	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17224	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if the members of the government were here, I would address the ′′s, the distinguished members of the Government, however, are gone. Therefore, I remain deprived of speaking to members of the government. That is why I will address the MPs and citizens of Serbia. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Zlatan Jovanovic submitted an amendment to Article 5 and asked for the member to be deleted. We are here primarily because of the citizens of Serbia, because of their work, their existence, their lives, so I will address the citizens of Serbia and analyse the individual views of this Article 5, and read this Article 5, because they do not have the opportunity to have it in their hands – the Republic of Serbia can be in charge of financing the budget deficit, the current liquidity deficit, as well as the refinance of the outstanding debt. The eardrums permeated both us and the citizens of Serbia as you liquidated the budget deficit, because it was 40 billion, then 20, then 15, then five, and now there's nothing, we're even in surplus. What then will the minister of law that allows him to owe the country abroad and then regulate the issue of the budget deficit to refinance the unsettled debt? You said, London, Paris, I don't know who else, probably this tyrant club, if it had one at all, would write off your debt. Now why do you need this to refinance something if you can't? You said that Serbia would work, that the economy would work, that the tax would make so much money flow that you could normally service your debts, that you wouldn't have to refinance them, move them. âTMa... to finance investment projects, as well as to end commitments to certain guarantees. That's those loans the state has already taken or will take, let's adopt so that the state can work normally. Ladies and gentlemen, by unseriously putting the agenda on this agenda here, by not thinking about pressing the green button and adopting these projects, we have put this country in a position to be in charge and now we have to pay back our debts. What is much worse and much more dangerous than this first position is attitude 4: "The Minister in charge of Finance Affairs," the text goes on to say not Minister Dinkic, but refers to him, ′′ decides on taking short-term loans to finance the budget deficit... ". So, it would be normal for the government to decide that the government's sitting is to be decided. We literally give once, which through unfortunate circumstances after Serbia has become the finance minister, the possibility of him deciding according to his boss on Serbia's state debt. Article 5 states: "The Minister of Finance is the only one who has been authorised to negotiate and conclude credit agreements on behalf of the Government and on behalf of the Republic, or to issue government securities of value. ′′ Emperor Haile Selasis did not behave this way that if we adopt this law, Minister Dinkic would behave. The reasoning given by the Serbian government to MP Zlatan Jovanovic why he does not accept the amendment says, "The amendment is not accepted for the reason why it is necessary to determine for what purposes the Republic of Serbia can be in charge and who is authorised to be in charge." I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, how has the Republic of Serbia been in charge so far? Is there a law under which the Republic of Serbia has so far been in debt? It was there, as it said in the last article – by way of effect of this law, the provisions of Articles 52, 53, 56, 57, 58, 59 and 60 and Article 73 of Item 1 2) and (4) of the Budgetary System Act, published in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia, cease to apply. 9/02 and 80/02. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what we've been serving here all along as if we've been regulated legally long ago is legally arranged. However, there is one more thing, that I should take this time to re-exploit and explain something to the citizens of Serbia and to the MPs. If this government is not the savior of Serbian citizens, some ministers are and they really need to take off their hat. For example, a minister who has been literally saving Serbian citizens of Velja Ilic these days jumped and pulled a woman from the Ibar River the day before. In doing so, he did a miracle, and if by any chance Vela Ilic was a Catholic, Benedict 16, he would have already suggested it for beatification because he jumped into Ibar, pulled out his wife and came out dry. All I know is that St. Nicholas of the saints had this God-given gift that he could walk on water. You see, Velja Ilic was walking, and it's said that the trainer in which he jumped in the Mataruska Bani was completely dry, and that was a few kilometers. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Veli Ilic, who today, if he had been a Catholic, was probably the Holy Vela tender, would have given the possibility that, in collaboration with Dinkic, he would have owed this country to the extent that generations behind us would not be able to pay. Please, the grandkids of our grandsons, if there is no parliamentary election and we do not remove this tambourine and the like, who are in charge of us, will have to repay these debts that we make possible by this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17225	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Anastasovski. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Dragoljub Anastasovski has the word, and then the People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17226	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 6. The draft public debt law, which requires that Article 6 be deleted, because this is also one in a series of bad laws that will not be in the function of citizens, will not be in the function of the state, but will be in the function of the individuals who have proposed it to this assembly. But to get back to Article 6. Provisions of Art. 6, 7, 8 and 9. The bill is prescribed when, in which way and under what conditions the Republic can be in charge of financing the current liquidity deficits, financing the budget deficit, refinanceing the outstanding debt, as well as financing investment projects. The promoter provided Article 6 with a mandate to finance current liquidity deficits. The Serbian Radical Party disagrees with this way of borrowing and financing liquid liquidity deficits and therefore requires that article 6 be deleted, as the law is poor and inapplicable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17227	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17228	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the bill creates the feeling that this government, headed by the finance minister, simply wants to drag Serbia into debt slavery or debt crisis. Under the proposal of this law, Malten, everyone will be able to be in charge on behalf of the Republic. It will be possible to do so by local self-government, public enterprises owned by local self-government, public enterprises that are state-owned and the Republic of Serbia itself. Article 6 provides that in the event of short-term liquidity of the Republic of Serbia's budget, the budget deficit will be completed through various loans. It is said that debt to finance current liquidity deficits is to take loans, i.e. to issue government securities of value, to finance uncoordinated revenue developments and budget expenditures during the financial year. Article 5 defines who is authorised to take those loans or to issue securities of value. The fourth stance says the finance minister decides to take short-term loans to finance the budget deficit, current liquidity deficits and to refinance public debt, as well as to issue short-term government securities. One question is asked – can the minister really do it? Is it moral for an individual, an individual in the government of the Republic of Serbia to have so much authority? The Serbian Radical Party is against the fact that anyone in this country can have so much authority, and only to be Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic. So, he will be able to decide on taking short-term loans without the consent of the government and the Prime Minister, to broadcast short-term securities of value on behalf of the state. So he's going to be the one who's called the state, in her name. The question now arises why do we need the Government of the Republic of Serbia? What do we need from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia? Gentlemen, colleagues from the DSS, what are you doing if you're going to vote for this bill? Are you asking that question? It says here that the motionary is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Which government? Who signed the bill on behalf of the government? He signed Vojislav Kostunica. Did he review the law? Did he agree to that? Does he really agree to give the full power to the finance minister? He's becoming a state now. When you pass the law in a text like this, the finance minister becomes a state. Furthermore, the finance minister, therefore no longer the finance minister, or the finance minister who is the state, has been authorised to negotiate borrowing and conclude credit agreements on behalf of the Government and on behalf of the Republic, or issue state securities of value. With whom will the finance minister, or the state, take credit? Will he take loans from those banks where the deposits of the Republic of Serbia's budget are located? Will anyone in Serbia be in debt to her own money? So far experience with Mladjan Dinkic, with Vuk Hamovic, Vojin Lazarevic, says it is possible. People created the entire empire with state money by taking their own money as a loan, a budget deposit. That's what Dinkic's been doing so far. How's it going from now on? Short-term loans are loans with at least one per cent of a month's interest, with re-orientation each month, and interest on deposits moves 2.5 per cent maximum on an annual basis, net earnings are 10 per cent. What is the budget of the Republic of Serbia? There's about 480 billion in the proposal. Calculate how much that's 10 percent of 480 billion, so you'll see that in just a year 100 families can easily support the tenth knee in advance. Will the finance minister, i.e. the state, or Mladjan Dinkic, be in debt to the state? The article, which is directly related to Article 6: "Extremely from the position of the 5th member, to the conclusion of a loan agreement, i.e. for the emission of state securities from value, the finance minister can by means of a solution empower the appointed person in the finance ministry responsible for the affairs". My people, so some ministry clerk, no longer a minister, will be stronger than the Prime Minister, will be stronger than the government! Who's that gonna be? It will usually be a sacrificial lamb that needs to be killed if any embezzlement or abuse is revealed, and it will be crucified on the pillar of shame, and the finance minister will say – he did, he overstepped the powers he received and I can't do anything about it, I replaced him. There's no legal responsibility for the real culprit. That's the problem with laws like this. So, when the law is carefully read, it gets the impression that someone will drag Serbia into debt slavery and make a little more money. That could be a little 50 billion a year.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17229	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Miloljub Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17230	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting by amendment. For all members of the law, which suspends lawlessness in this area, amendments are the same and they are said to be deleted. This is the result of the intention to prevent changes and attempt to retain legal solutions in this area that are related to the previous period and which is why the country has been brought into debt crisis. More than once, debt slavery has been mentioned here. In this debt crisis and in such a state, it has brought power to which you participated. Therefore, I call on all MPs whose law and order is first and foremost, and against them, they are reluctant, at the expense of the citizens of Serbia, to reject such pointless amendments in the day of voting. A few things are mentioned here. It is my duty to say this: Mr Dinkic has been mentioned several times, and I say that it is the man who is responsible for having his trust back in the national currency – the dinar. What is important, as far as the public debt situation is concerned, the public debt has been reduced from 14 billion euros to 9 billion euros. If you just multiply how much it's per capita, you'll realize that it's less, so if you don't understand that nine is less than 14. It's a matter of one little thought, if you're in such a position. What is also very important, it is that the state in the previous period, before 5 October 2000, took away one illegal way from citizens old foreign currency savings, and the state now, and the government of the Republic of Serbia as responsible, is returning the old foreign currency savings to the citizens. It's clear that he can't suddenly, even though someone took it from people at once, comes back the way the state thinks it's possible at these moments. Someone took a loan for Serbia's rebirth and I wonder where the effects and results of that loan were, what was made. Today, the state, under full responsibility, began returning loans to Serbia's rebirth. What I mentioned and said is that the reform in the banking system was best done, that today we have a billion-and-500m-euro savings in banks, and earlier that savings was not. More people are employed in the banking system than before. Credits started, which agricultural, which is short-term and long-term, which is residential; of course we are not satisfied with how much this is done today, but certainly, these are good signals that the state, creating such funds and guarantee opportunities, will be able to expand credit capacities in the future, and thus the interest rates are decreasing. With regard to what has been mentioned many times, I must say this: in this country, there is true order and the grey economy has been reduced. Where did this gray economy come from? The gray economy was done most in the decade before October 5th. It's not easy for the state to impose order and reduce the gray economy today, because people have led it thoroughly, thanks to you. What is very important is that order is introduced and reduced by grey economy in different ways, and one, the Ministry of Finance is implementing it, is fiscalisation and introduction of VAT. It also introduces sebugetical discipline, and it is now known precisely in the law and regulations that it is available to state revenues and that these are expendable items and very clearly and domestically available to them. What's very important to say is that there's savings in the government register, that we have a starting downsizing of the administration, so in 2005, that's ten percent. An efficient and cheap administration is being introduced, and thus the state spends less. What is also important is that the 2003 budget deficit amounted to 45 billion dinars. In 2004, it was 22 and in 2005, the surplus amounted to three billion dinars. So, in one word, conditions are being created in the country to make real and healthy work and earn money, and the state helps those who need help, the sick, the poor, etc. What's very important for this year, 2005, is that in the first six months compared to the same period last year, exports increased by 50%. In Serbia, two billion foreign investments are expected this year, the highest since October 2000. When we try to sum up what these results look like, what the results of the Government of Serbia look like, and, of course, thanks to the G17 Plus Prime Minister and Vice President, it looks like this: Serbia, thanks to the government's work, has received a positive assessment of the Performance Study. Agreements have been reached with the World Bank and the IMF, a successful annual European Bank for Reconstruction and Development Assembly has been held, showing that we are worthy hosts to hold such a gathering. We have obtained the status of a privileged trading partner with the United States; I note that these sanctions were imposed in 1992 and that today 4,000 products can be found on the US market, we can export without customs duty. After the 1990s, a textile agreement with the European Union was signed for the first time. The Paris Trustees' Club approved a debt-paying break based on an agreement with the IMF. The macro-financial assistance to Serbia from the European Union has been approved. The Serbian government, on a proposal from Mr. Labus and Mr. Dinkic, formed a Fund for the Support and Finance of Young talent. There are a whole series of positive things and a whole series of measures that serve to create an environment here for the economic development of the country. We all want to, and we all want to do, a good system that is identical to the European Union systems. Why? To make the citizens live better. Therefore, gentlemen of Parliament, it is good for you to be patient to listen to explanations for amendments that read – the member of the law is deleted. It is clear that this empty story we have heard will continue to date, but for the sake of Serbian citizens, we need to make it clear what this is about. It's just that there are no concrete proposals, there's only going back to the way things were. In the state of Serbia, there is no going back to the old one, which was the 1990s. We are fighting, and we will succeed in making the country finally an integral part of the family of European peoples. This is evident in the congregation itself on the basis of discussions. The citizens of Serbia should know that as well. It is seen how the ruling majority MPs discuss it and how the SRS MPs discuss it, because it is a clear difference in the intentions and the way it is done today in Serbia. It's the essence of our responsible way of working. I really congratulate the ruling majority's MPs on their patience to listen to pointless explanations for the amendments they say – it is deleted. Clearly and unequivocal citizens should know that all that follows is an empty story.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17231	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17232	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are grey economies, and those who carry out the tax evac are mostly close to Mladjan Dinkic and Miroljub Labus, since they are in godfatherly and mafia ties. This man in the gray suit who was behind the assembly speaker not to miss the topic, but also what his experts prepared for him did not know that he was presenting in his theatre performance, but rather from the MPs who supported this government heard him banging. Well, when the people who support them in power said that, what else can I say? I can only tell you that the difference between us Serbian radicals and the man in the gray suit is great. He is here at the moment, one time, and after the next elections never again, and the Serbian radicals are not only from this side, but also from half of this side in number, hopefully, which will be enough to manage Serbia properly, without crime, fraud and without lies and deception. It's not such an economic situation as the previous MP wanted to introduce you, but you know, there's a show at a local radio station in Kragujevac, a very listening show, where listeners come in, and it's called "From the Head", because people come in and talk out of their heads about what's bothering them, they say – misery, poverty, despair. This guy didn't talk from his head because what's written here has nothing to do with what he's thinking, because he doesn't have to think about it because he's got a job, because his family probably have a job, he's situationed, he's secure. And here I am, as other MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, that the citizens of Serbia and the city from which I come, where the predecessor party could not win the censorship to be parliamentary at the local level, and the mayor's candidate was eight of the 11 candidates and imagine, the head of the Shumadian County. The man had 1.5% of the vote, he runs the entire county and the government is small. That's what you from the DSS, from the SPS and how many of you there are, you from New Serbia, this Veroljub Stevanovic, you support, you justify. We could not be talked to by a group of people, who are not what they are called, but the JUL plus, the one who deceives and deceives citizens, from the incursion of Dinkic with automatic rifles at the National Bank of Yugoslavia, to the arrival of all these alleged reforms and to the borrowing of the country for Labus' time. What about the sugar export preferences? Who signed it? Who's involved in this affair? What about the 'Erikson' affair? What about Jelasic's house that costs three million euros more than he paid? What are we gonna do with all this? Don't deceive these people, and you, Mr. Young, don't let them beat you with some data they don't have to do with their lives, but sit well, from town to town, because in the next election not only in Kragujevac, as you already are, but in all of Serbia, you're an extraparliamentary party, and if you're so much a masochist, you insist on taking a nice trip from village to village to make some kind of infrastructure, to build a party, to see a little bit of how the people live. A little bit in Požeg, where your place of origin is, where the Serbian radical is the president of the municipality, to see what he found there and what kind of situation people are in. Come to Kragujevac. You are the head of a parliamentary group here, come and see in a city where your party has 1.5% of the votes that the people have a hard time living in. Don't make it up and say something that has nothing to do with reality. Where are your loans? Where's that savings? Redecorate a little, so go from town to town and see who these people have to put one euro on a savings book. What are you talking about? How is it that the trust of citizens in the state and state institutions is restored when people remain from day to day more jobless? Small and medium-sized enterprises, not only but also; direct investments, five enterprises, and below 20 employees. Lalovic came in the other day, with you in power, last night on state television – new layoffs, reform of the pension system. Look at your pensions. Maybe your parents are retired, as my mother is, so she receives from month to month, and your pensions are poor and poor, less and less pensions. Go to a town where people have no business at all, as is the case in Kragujevac where 40,000 people don't work. Don't go back to something you weren't directly involved in. You yourself said you were a man who then wanted to change regimes. Did you change it in 2000? Did you manage to do something? You didn't, because you unconditionally accepted that the IMF dictated politics to you in legislation, and that's why we have laws like this and how you're going to serve external debt and how you're going to behave and work. You could have possibly advocated five times the export of raspberries to some of the countries, even in America, because you have this signal, or a signed agreement, so you hope to incasate some money from that export. The problem is, Mr. Albianic, and you're from that neighborhood, from the Czech region, which is no longer anyone to knock down those raspberries. How to knock them down when the price of the purchase is 30-40 dinars, twice as much as last year. You go to the market, you see how the peasants live, what they brought to sell, how long it took them to produce. If you ask them if their electricity was cheaper 300, 400 or 500%, depending on what tariff they were in in 2000, before your reforms, they'll tell you that with those 50 German marks, they lived five times better, when it comes to basic life supplies than now. They don't ask for peasants in expensive suits, winters, summers, expensive cars. They want to have for normal reproduction, they want to feed and educate children, and they don't have to work and black people from morning to dark in the field or in the plastics or in the market so they can pay Hamovic and Lazarevic electricity. That's why you'd be better off not going out with that data that's essentially not about reality, but a nice way to get under your feet anyway, you don't have to do a quorum here, in Serbia to see how hard people live.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17233	The word has the People's MP Albianic, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17234	A replica based on my being president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, based on my name being repeatedly mentioned. Miss Jovanovic, it's not easy for you. As much as you want to make a drinking atmosphere out of the congregation, it's not going to work for you. You know, as far as Požega is concerned, I was in Požega yesterday and there were interstate sports games opened yesterday. If you don't know the information, the Ministry of Finance has singled out for the end of the Hall in Požega, and precisely because of these games, three million dinars. It's been successfully completed. As for your attempt to turn things around here, there's nothing from that job. JUL, which are actually Serbian radicals, you were in the closest alliance with that party. For Serbian citizens, the SRS was in a coalition with JUL. That's the essence of the story. When? When the state of Serbia was brought to ruin in 1998, until we wiped you out of the political scene on October 5th. Therefore, you are trying to honor the things you have done in the state of Serbia from October 5th to this day, to bring the economy to ruin, to quarrel with the whole world, to bring the country into debt crisis, and we have now made it possible to write off these debts for good. You have quarreled with us all over the world and allowed your policy to make 18 NATO countries a decision to bomb this country. It's your essence and it's an attempt to transfer your rhetoric from that time in any way here to the assembly speaker today. I'm telling you, the environment is completely different today. This power works differently. We're working with the whole world. We are an integral part of international institutions and organizations, as it suits us. We have results in international co-operation that we can praise. They have the effect of these results and on the country of Serbia... (President: You're out of time. I'm done. It's the way the current government and G17 plus works in it. You can try, invent, misbehave, act after a congregation speaker, but it won't help you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17235	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, I suppose, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17236	You know, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when someone's got a ringishipil in their head, I can't help it. I can only take serious people who view and think this right through a normal exchange of arguments to participate in what is Serbia's public debt and the bill of law that the SRS requires to delete. The Serbian Radical Party and its leaders and its honorary members, sympathisers and voters, and there are a million and a half to two, and perhaps more, we will count ourselves even more, not only to believe in the arguments we make for the assembly speaker, but because of the fact that Serbian citizens today live in great misery and poverty, my obligation, above all as moral persons, and secondly, as representatives of Serbian citizens, not only from the city from which I come, but all those affected by such a policy being implemented and what is the continuity of the former wireless government, to tell you all this in person and to give you arguments that you may like or not like. The ones you're negotiating with, it's the IMF, and the shock therapy seems to have worked most on you, it's something that's not acceptable to both the Serbian economy and its citizens. The laws that have been passed since 2000, I guess you've been fighting for it, you just said that you've been changing the regime for a while, it's gone 900,000 people. For example, just a few cities in Serbia, and I'll tell you what it looked like in ′′Staslas′′, after 16 destructive missiles, when the factory, with the help of the SRS, was then a participant in power, and above all, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, who was the chairman of the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for Budget and Finance, was fully raised, the plants returned and of course with the help of workers, valuable, hardworking, those who would not vote for your party in my city; it was produced in the first quarter of 2000 three times as many cars as in the first year when you came to power, i.e. those for whom you fought so hard and everything. At the time when Serbian radicals performed their honorary ministerial role, when Mr Krasic was a minister of trade, when Mr Jojic was a federal minister of justice or other people who are here, not only did the Serbian citizen have hope and the possibility of believing that these people would root out crime and corruption, but in 2000, because of the global fraud that hit Serbia, because of the help you received, some in the pocket like Svilanovic and the company and others, you deceived the citizens that you would be the ones to deal with thieves and criminals... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... With you came to power the greatest thieves and criminals in the state. I'm telling you - with you, because you, sir, have to bear responsibility for every day since 5 October 2000 and not just now since you've been in the Assembly, this now and never again... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... For it was you who desired these things and such changes, and did not repent. Those citizens who repent of this have shown confidence in the Serbian Radical Party in the next elections, because they know that lies and deceptions do not exist... (Chairman: Please, time.) )......................................................................................................... that we will never use the assembly speaker, the public appearances, any contact with the citizens of Serbia to deceive them, but to tell them the cruel truth, which is that this government is not capable, and all the time you are willing to be the bearer, listen, Miloljub Albianic bearer of change and reform in our country's economic system. Now, let me ask you, since this morning, if there's a chimney in a factory that smokes or works, you don't have anything to do with it. What are you talking about? If you're from the village, you won't admit... (Chairman: Please, you've been over time for almost a minute and a half.) )......................................................................................................... that the peasants live hard today, and that they are tormented, and that under this authority they are bent to the floor, because they have no literal bread to eat, neither they nor their children. That's why you'd be better off turning to reality and to how hard the people live and telling the truth, because that's your obligation, you're a representative of the authorities. After all, citizens know that I'm right, like all Serbian radicals, and it's pointless for you, when you're dizzy and you don't know where you end up in all this, in that mix-up in your head, I explain anything in a rational way.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17237	Replica, MP Albianic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17238	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just for the sake of truth, Serbian citizens must know that for the misery you mention is the Serbian Radical Party, along with the JUL. You're responsible for the 900,000 unemployed right now. Take the data, and you'll see, by the year 2000, you had 900,000 unemployed, along with those who were on forced vacation, which you sent. As for smuggling, the grey economy, all the bad things in Serbia, you're responsible. That's enough fiction. Our people need to know who's responsible for what. This power and G17 plus is responsible for reforms it implements in Serbia, for introducing order into Serbia and for bringing Serbia to be like all countries in the region, in the environment and the European Union, so that we can be competitive, that the economy stands on its feet and that people can work and earn. That's the point. That's a huge difference. Don't mix any more grandmothers and frogs at the assembly pay phone. All that is gray, bad, black in the previous period, for which you are responsible, now the government is responsible for the interests of the entire people and every citizen in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17239	National MP Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17240	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vice President. I really can't let someone with such a bunch of lies and untruths insult my dignity and dignity of the National Assembly. In order not to give the previous speaker Mr Albianic such importance, since I do not want to do so as a representative of the party that will rule from the next elections in Serbia, I must tell you that all your attempts to replace the thesis and the data that citizens do not accept are, therefore, not in the elections wherever you run, something that is a fact. Our focus will be, above all, on the destructive policy led by the DS from 2000 to 2003. G17 plus minus, whatever your name is, you're one transient variant. As far as the former JUL is concerned, half of you are with that unfortunate Karic, so I really don't want to deal with you in the further course of the debate, but with the fact that the Democratic Party founded these devastating reforms and the policy you continue, which is why citizens and how hard they live in Serbia today.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17241	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17242	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Serbian radicals only convey the opinion of Serbian citizens, and Serbian citizens are in fear of new borrowings. They already feel that they are living very badly and now they wonder what the future of them and their families is like. That's probably why it's such a bile discussion about this law. No doubt, there is no need to comment on a statement that the lack of law is to blame for the debt crisis the country is in. It is those who have so easily signed loans, taken loans, thus trying to conceal their inability to run a real economic policy that is in the interest of Serbian citizens. Speaking of public debt law at all, I have to say it's not true, and in the last few days, we have an opportunity to read in the papers, to fix the situation with the external trade deficit. The reason for that is very simple. We have moved from sales tax to VAT since 1 January. That is why imports fell only at first sight, as importers used November and December last year to make supplies with a large quantity of import goods. This is one of the reasons why in the first part of this year we do not have such large imports, because they are such large supplies, VAT is paid from January 1st and they obviously used that convenience last year. As far as exports are concerned, it's just an illusion. We shouldn't be fooling ourselves. With VAT, we've come into a situation where part of the tax returns. It's perfectly normal that the amount of exported goods that this time appears as surplus is actually what was exported in an illegal way earlier. The return of the tax created the interest of the exporter to fully declare complete exports. As far as public debt is concerned, officials said he was not so big, that he was small in percentages compared to gross social product. I think we also attend a kind of delusion, because it's much more important what the growth of production in one country is to service debts. We have a very small growth in production, we have an economy that is in stasis. This results in the fear of the Serbian Radical Party, as well as of all Serbian citizens, that we will not be in a position to repay all debts in some future period. In light of this public debt law, we had an argument that the financial market was developing in this way. I think it's just one pick-up. A lot of things need to be done to develop the financial market. So far, there has been no interest, above all, in the Government, in the parties in power, in the development of the financial market. It's true and it's normal for state charters to encourage the development of that market, but I don't think we still have those basic system laws and the possibility of that market developing. Here, from month to month, the adoption of a value-market law, and we don't even have an investment fund law, which would actually mean real development of the financial market. Article 7 in this law refers to borrowing in the financing of the budget deficit. Today we have the opportunity to boast of the government's budget surplus. The surplus should not boast, because it shows that too much has been taken from the economy, that the economy does not have enough crafts, that it is forced to be in debt to the banks, that it pays high interest and that all of this will reflect a further decline in production. The Republic obviously has no problem when it comes to covering the budget deficit. With new taxes, she is doing it very easily through the pockets of Serbian citizens. A major problem arises from local self-governments that depend entirely on the transfer funds of the Republic government and the Ministry of Finance itself. There are very often local self-government in the situation of being blackmailed by Minister Dinkic himself, by the ministry. In this law, the possibility of blackmailing local self-government is increasing, as a decision on borrowing is made by the minister and only the ministry. Article 7 should not be in this law. In general, this law represents only a legal basis for Serbia's further borrowing. That's what's not in the interest of Serbian citizens. It is impossible and it is inconceivable that this law is adopted at all while we do not have one public debt management strategy, while we do not have one report on the full state of public debt. We MPs are not in a position to see what a public debt looks like, what perspectives further pay off public debt. The memorandum to be announced in law is what is yet to come. I think it is absolutely right for the Serbian Radical Party's MPs to withdraw this law, because this is essentially another financial torture by the finance ministry and Minister Mladjan Dinkic himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17243	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17244	Since, ladies and gentlemen, Serbian citizens, thanks to the devastating politics of Mladjan Dinkic, Miroljub Labus and their associates, are not able to buy a newspaper, in favour of a commentary by a colleague who just said a lot of things here, which I do not believe, to see what "Kurr's" says: "Malinam feeds turkeys", Branko Ponjavić, a raspberries from Nevada, each day half a crate of raspberries, says: "Last year I handed over 3,400 kilograms of raspberries per kilogram, the euro was then 73 dinars. This year the euro jumped to 83, and the price of raspberries is 40 dinars." This is how Mladjan Dinkic, Ivana Dulic-Markovic and Labus save, of course, Albianic, Serbian citizens. The colleague said Mladjan Dinkic introduced order, budgetary discipline, fiscalisation, and now you see how he introduced the fiscalization. The Union of Drinkers of Serbia, a letter from Smederjevska Palanka, not to read everything, mostly the Union has members from 38 cities of the Republic of Serbia, and talk about their protests over the violent introduction of fiscalisation. He says, "We especially single out unpleasant events, harassment at a protest in Subotica by our gendarmes. The protest began at 1200 hours in the square in Subotica. Representatives of the 38 cities of this association have reiterated our demands by asking us to speak to one of the competent institutions. No one came to us until 4:00, as if we didn't exist. Our human rights are thus at risk, because we exist. We had to make the next move – a roadblock on the eighth mile outside the Kelebi border crossing, where we were two days and two nights on hot asphalt. No one ever talks to us from the authorities. We're going to two points at six kilometers from the border and the border crossing, the Kelebija terminal, at 7.00 hours we blocked the border crossing of our vehicles and bodies." Now listen further: "There were 2,500 of us, and perhaps more people. At 10.00 a.m., the first group of 50 special forces arrived. The association, we sat still, children, women, men, disabled, severe patients, from great temperature, exhaustion, some also fainted. We've learned that the people at the checkpoint were beaten, scattered and arrested. There's been a lot of injuries. That didn't discourage us... "and so on. So Mladjan Dinkic is a gendarme, of course, with the help of his colleague who has made it possible for him to deal with citizens who are protesting over his disastrous policies, which are praised here by his colleagues. In Article 7, which refers to the debt to finance the budget deficit, it is necessary to mention this Article 5, and those positions: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6. Article 7 directly refers to Article 5's position, which is said to be extremely of the 5th position of this member, which is the position where Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic is the only one who is authorised to negotiate borrowings on behalf of the government and on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to conclude credit agreements. It says – especially in order to conclude a loan agreement, i.e. for the emission of state securities of value, the finance minister can by means of a solution empower the appointed person in the ministry responsible for financial affairs. So, an official, like that, remembers Serbian citizens, when Zoran Djindjic and his minister Djelic hired Janjusevic and Kolesar, the officials they thought no one would know about, and then, on behalf of the government, both the government and the president and the minister performed various criminal acts. That's what Mladjan Dinkic is trying to do now with this law. Then a colleague comes out here and says that we Serbian radicals talk nonsense, as he said, we propose pointless amendments. He thinks because he comes out, and he says here that the Serbian public hears that we are submitting pointless amendments, we will be scared, and we will stop explaining to Serbian citizens, that we are informing Serbia's public about the devastating policy of this government, most of all in that part of the bearer, the skeleton of the government, according to counterpart Albianic, and colleagues from the DSS do not deny it. He says G17 is a plus skeleton of this government. What Serbian citizens know is a continuation, the government's skeleton was from the previous government, as the current Deputy Prime Minister was the vice president of the party that was the skeleton of the previous government. So nothing has changed in that policy. Nothing has changed better for the citizens of Serbia. You can't, colleagues who don't want you to listen to this, stop us from explaining to Serbian citizens what the Serbian government is trying to do, how to destroy this few people who live in Serbia as normally as possible. No matter what the chairman is not here right now, he's going over it lightly and he's pretending he can't hear when his colleague says he's nine less than 14, I guess he's been a mathematician from a moment ago finding out, then he says it's a matter of little thought, if we're able to think. It's not an insult to us if he tells us. You know what our people say – it doesn't matter what they say to me, it matters who tells me. So he can say whatever he wants for us, but the problem is that a colleague here insulted the intelligence of Serbian citizens. This people are smart, this people know what they say, what they represent here. Of course, all the indicators published in public these days, in fact for years and months, clearly state which party Serbian citizens trust. So we will continue to explain, to you here, dear colleagues, and to the people who are watching us, that the public debt law, as it is, must not be passed, that you must not vote for it, that you do not frame Mladjan Dinkic, of whom all of this is written, and that all citizens of Serbia know, because he has not yet explained about the money from Cyprus... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... He still hasn't explained for relations at the National Savings Bank, a lot of things, I'm finishing up, he hasn't explained to the citizens. So at least you don't let him owe Serbia the way he thinks, that is, how he, depending on the commission, deals with someone.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17245	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Does he want a word from another parliamentary group under this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17246	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would, however, like to read to you first members of the 6th and 7th members who precede this article 8, to whom I have submitted the amendment. As I see the ruling majority's MPs reading the laws poorly, I don't think they'll listen to me, but for the sake of Serbian citizens, they know what the legal proposal is. Article 6 states: "The debt to finance current liquidity deficits is to take credit, i.e. the broadcasting of government securities from value to finance uncoordinated revenues and budget expenditures during the financial year. The total debt on the basis of the debt under Article 1 must be paid back by 31 December of the current financial year." The last position said: "In the course of the financial year, debt to finance current liquidity deficits must not exceed 5 per cent of total revenue achieved in the previous financial year." So one limit is set as much as can be owed on short-term loans and the broadcasting of short-term securities. Article 7 states: "The debt to finance the budget deficit is to take credit, i.e. to issue government securities of value, in which debt is transferred in the coming financial years. The amount of the budget deficit financing mandate shall not exceed the limits set out in the law governing the Republic's budget for that year. The debt limit is the net amount of debt which can remain unmistakable at the end of the financial year, establishing specific restrictions for borrowings in domestic or foreign currency. In the event that government records are issued at discount value, the limit shall be calculated on the basis of the nominal value that was valid at the time of the transmission of these documents." So in Article 7, there's now a second limit to what the government can be in debt. What is said in Article 8. The bill: "In the event that a limit is reached for the borrowing of current liquidity deficits and for the financing of the budget deficit, prescribed by this law, credit may be taken for the debt to be refinanced, i.e. to issue government securities of value, provided that the funds of that debt are used exclusively for the payment of the outstanding amount of debt or payment on the basis of guarantees issued". So, although in Articles 6 and 7, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, you have restrictions, Article 8 completely erases those restrictions. So it allows someone to take a new loan to pay off the old one. From who? Probably from the same bank he took the previous loan from. Why? Because it's regulated by Article 5. The bill, which says, "The finance minister decides to take short-term loans to finance the budget deficit, current liquidity deficits and to refinance public debt, as well as to issue short-term government securities." That's what you say in Section 4. In Article 5(5), the Minister of Finance, or the State, ′′ is the only one who has been authorised on behalf of the Government and on behalf of the Republic of the Republic to negotiate borrowing and conclude credit agreements, or transmits government securities of value. ′′ In Article 5: "Extremely from the position of the 5th member, to conclude a loan contract, i.e. for the emission of the State Charter of Value, the finance minister can by means of a solution empower the appointed person in the ministry responsible for financial affairs". When Articles 5, 6, 7 and 8 relating to my amendment, which I submitted on behalf of the SRS, can be concluded that the finance minister, who is only an official in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, can issue securities of value, can enter into a debt agreement on behalf of the state, can take credit on behalf of the state. Members of the 6th and 7th shall be subject to certain restrictions, since he is an authorised representative of the proposings, but in Article 8, he shall allow himself to simply not be subject to the restrictions laid down in Articles 6 and 7; he may once again take a new credit to return the old, to issue new securities of value to pay the old. That's how you wrote the law. I see some of them are looking a little surprised. Read what you're going to vote for. Read about how you're going to task Serbian citizens to pay for someone's nebuloses here. There have been objections to how the SRS submits amendments. I'll read you the explanation of my amendment. "The Serbian Parliament is in office of the Government of the Republic of Serbia," I can now freely say Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, because he is both the Government and the Prime Minister and the National Assembly, all Mr Dinkic, and therefore the sessions are scheduled three days before the maintenance so as to make it impossible for MPs to submit amendments and to push through unsuspecting proposals like this. And you've been pushed by an unsuspecting proposal that you're going to vote for. So this government, so the finance minister tries to abuse this assembly. The question is, who are we going to take these loans from? I am telling you, if you vote this law and when it starts to apply, you will see that we will take loans from those banks where the state funds from the budget are deposited, you will see that we will take loans from our own money, or from the budget, or from the citizens of Serbia. Why? To keep them longer in debt. Why? To make money. All of this involves the finance minister, who is now the prime minister of the government, Malta. He doesn't have to ask anyone else. The entire state administration system is down. The government doesn't exist. When you vote this law, Dinkic is free to say – the state, it is me, the monarch, above the law, above all else, and you will give him the right. Imagine yourself, before the day for the vote and before some merry girl comes out here and says, "Reform." Imagine how you will vote, how tomorrow, when some of you cease the mandate of the MP, you will go out among the citizens. How are you gonna talk to them? How are they gonna talk to you, and what are they gonna tell you? I believe it's nothing nice. This story about the government's debt -- well, you've owed the state more last year than in the last 15 years together. Over five billion euros in debt to the trade deficit. The domestic economy has been completely destroyed. You have nothing left to produce to sell to someone. Agriculture's gone. Now you're talking about reform. What reforms? To have someone come by tomorrow to buy us for small money and work as slaves in their own country. These are your reforms. I don't see anything else in it. That's the policy that's been going on since October 5th. Someone, I think, on October 5th was naive to bring one man to power. Now this government, this congregation majority, has brought the largest party in the government back to power. This law really makes him a monarch. You don't need the Karadjordjevics anymore, or the prince, or anyone else, you have Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17247	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Please, I am obliged to inform all those who have not read this law in due time: this law has been in the procedure since 12 April and there is no reason for anyone to insult the MPs whether they have read it. I guess everyone was reading it, because it was possible. Here you go, Mr. Crassy, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17248	Because of those who have read and especially those who have misread it, I will try to help and convince MPs that it is a much better amendment than proposed Article 8 of this law. It is good that in the analysis of Article 8, an actual organic relationship is made between the provisions of Articles 6, 7 and 8. Article 7 refers to the financing of current liquidity deficits. It's a situation where the state needs to pay something, and there's no money in the account, because it hasn't arrived, because there's a different tax calculation on added value and there's these problems with the inflow of funds that are clearly coming, but they can't agree on deadlines. There, of course, the minister jumps in and uses one of the instruments to provide, if I may say so, effective money in the account. This is the situation he is using to provide fuel resources, for inspection bodies, if necessary for an emergency service trip, and there are no funds in the account, and also, this method is used for security and all other means needed to monitor the payment of obligations that are or are going within some deadlines for presentations. There is a limit that this debt should not exceed 5% of the total revenue achieved in the previous financial year. I'm not going to go into any further interpretation of this inaccurate provision whether it's 5% on an annual level or 5% at a given time. Make sure it's on the annual level. Article 7 refers to borrowing financed by the budget deficit. We don't have a budget deficit this year, but this is a general regulation that needs to regulate the rules of conduct, not just for this year. The purpose of this provision is to rely on the Budgetary System Act or Budget Law. It defines whether there will be a budget deficit, what it will amount to, and how it will be covered, that is this provision that speaks of borrowing. Let me just remind you, those who use stars in their symbols and cheat on us with an explanation, and if you read the reason for the law being passed in the context of the reasoning, so within the group of reasons, the third paragraph, I see that there is a big difference, because if you consulted these experts, they couldn't give you consent to this text of the bill. And why is that? Because these experts of the World Bank, the IMF, you mentioned Americans here, so there's the European Union, they have some other standards as a rule of conduct, and they're falling apart from this. I'm not surprised, since you've had a long walk as an exposition of these two banks, so when they couldn't finance you anymore, they said -- now you're in power, you make a party, and that's how the G17 plus came into existence. It is said here that the budget deficit should not amount to more than 3% of gross social product over the course of one year. This year it is said – there is no deficit financing, we have agreed on income and expenditure and it is all over. That's where we meet another standard for joining the European Union. In the European Union, there is this standard, based on that agreement, that public finances can be defused up to 3% of the social product. I need to tell you right now that it says it's standard, and it's not in practice. The European Union has demanded that this standard be respected by Portugal, Greece and other countries, but France and Germany have for several years failed to respect it. They have a budget deficit financing level of 5%. You should tell the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that there are selective rules in the European Union and that the European Central Bank also has problems with its foreign exchange reserves and how to preserve the stability of the euro, because the euro was in the function of unifying and paying the costs of united Germany. You saw for yourself, as soon as these conditions started to fall, that is, the Constitution of the European Union in some referendums, some countries were eager to come forward to want to return their national currency as their national pride, not something imaginary. You don't like what you're hearing, but I'm telling you it's not only national, it's economic reality in some countries of Western Europe, because there's a difference in development and not everyone can fit into some standards. Some finance the common budget, and some just use funds from the common budget. Since I'm running out of time, I'm going to report for the next amendment, so I'm going to keep explaining myself.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17249	The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. This is in the spirit of the explanations that I have already given, therefore, the MPs who have read in time have submitted amendments that have affected the law. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Just to say, some countries in the European Union are selectively applying regulations. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17250	I knew you were different from these others. Mr. Igor Becic was an outstanding reader of this law, so he asked me, since he has some obligations in local self-government, let me explain it, because, you see, this has some continuity. Let me finish with article 8, where we're talking about refinance. So, if all the limits are broken based on the debt to maintain liquid liquidity, if debt limits are breached in terms of funding of the budget deficit, then it comes as a third instance to refinance; that means, in the end of the day, what most of us interpret as reprogramming, but not delaying the debt, but providing funds, so the pro-forming is paid, and thus closing one item, but essentially increasing the debt. So, in conditions where the surplus is as pronounced as it is in our case, then it just indicates that something bad is planned. To return, or to come to this Article 9 which speaks of borrowing to finance investment projects. No investment projects have been identified here. Data is one general formulation – developmental, of interest for the entire Republic, so that it can be interpreted that, if locally observed, both on the level and on the territory of local self-government, on the territory of the AP and generally of republican importance. This territorial orientation of the development programme is not the main problem. Here the basic problem is who should be in charge of such loans. I must remind you that since 2001, a logic has prevailed in our public finances and our monetary system. It is, I must say, violently imposed, simply, that some events have forced the government to react in such a way, when there have been some problems: the former SFRY is in charge, so that the conflict agreement, which is very unfavourable for the SRJ and now the state community, has come, so it has to be distinguished, no matter what the federal state is in charge of, and we see which projects, to determine who is now to activate the guarantee and to reconcile these obligations on the basis of these duties. In this erosion, there was some solution to being about the Republic, so it is said – why would the Republic take on obligations when we count that the economic operators who are in charge of some of their development projects will do so through commercial banks, and the state may appear as a guarantor, but even if it appears as a guarantee, we here a few months ago passed a law and, based on that guarantee, if it comes to the realization, the state acquires ownership of the property of the borrower, and then we used the example of RTB Bor and these other larger giants, where an imminent foreign credit came for their needs, and the state now has a commitment, and on that basis, the state has twice property over its assets. That's when we said it was pointless. You see, that nonsense continues. If you count on the state to fund a development project, whether it's an infrastructure, whether it's another thing, some other investment of general interest for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, then, by the logic of things, direct jobs about it during the investment period, during the construction, after that, is being taken over by some firm; it's probably going to be state or mostly state-owned, and then in that situation, if it's in charge of development projects, it can only be guaranteed, and it can't be this way that you promote this, because you are now practically maintaining the system that twice the state is responsible for its own. That's the problem. If you'd read the stenograms when we talked about that law where the state becomes based on the activated guarantees of the owner, etc., you wouldn't have made this mistake, but there was a simple need here – put down the members, insert something. Why? We want from the Budgetary System Act, that God Djelic, to draw up a few provisions, so that it's a public debt law, not getting into the essence of the problem, starting with a name, to the last member of a future law that should regulate this. You had a good foundation in the former federal law on funding SRJ's jurisdiction, where there were a dozen provisions that regulated borrowing in a very principled way, but a clear way. No, you didn't want that, but let's go, innovation, we're going to see, we're going to finish the job. Of course, by the logic of things, there's an inevitable man here who's the only one who understands how to put on a hat and manage finance. That's the problem. Too bad there's no president of the parliamentary group, since he's said anything about our amendments, he says there's no profession, there's no political attitude, there's no ideology, it's just -- it's deleted, and when it's said to delete there's nothing proposed, nothing is inoculated. That's the problem, we can't convince you. You think the quality of the law depends only on the number of hands raised. That's not true. We've shown you this for the past year and a half, all the legal projects we've criticised at least once or twice you've had to change. Almost half of the agenda of this session is dedicated to some changes made a few months or a year ago. At the time of the adoption, there were words that it was epochal, expertly, given us the consent of these, they, left and right, upper and lower, those with a lot of money and those with little money etc. This is where you wrote it. We worked with American experts. How would that go in America? America is a state, their administration is one of the most responsible administrations on the globe of the Earth. Not to bid numbers, it's going to be hard to add up those zeroes, to decrypt what number it is. All duties are commercial. Where? According to investment funds, according to banks, commercial responsibilities and when it appears they need to be in charge. They've been in debt, known to be their large pension and disability fund, Reagan's gone several times to beg their board president to release several billion to overcome some problems. I'm not saying America's weak, I don't think anyone's gonna understand, but I'm telling you there's some kind of normal procedure. It is fully expected that an unplanned event will cause a country to suffer a crisis, a problem with public finances. Public finances are a troubled and dangerous area. Why? Because the state appears directly or through the paralegals as an obligor of something that is guaranteed and 90% of those things guaranteed are human rights, whether it's pension, pay for education, whether it's child support, whether it's disability protection. And, of course, the state has to take care when it designs macroeconomic policy. It doesn't matter whether inflation is 3% or 17%. If you had strong investment funds, they'd put a lot of pressure on your monetary policy, because they know what it would mean when the time comes to reach their payment obligations and how much inflation would be worth to those investments that are always private property in investment funds. I'd like you to focus on your expertise, but it's an essential profession. I have to tell you, by all definitions, this territory, the population, demographic structure, etc. They meet those very ideal conditions for the development of true democracy and for the development of a normal economic system, where there is no need for some innovation and for the copying of something by the system – saw a frog where the horses are wetting, so let's get her feet up too. It shows here that one man wants to have absolute authority in the sense that he's absolutely wondering about everything. That doesn't hurt your so-called so-called. Transition justice. The sooner you forget the transition justice, the sooner you forget those lustrations and the ugly words that don't mean anything, focus on what is the interest of this environment and the interest of these citizens. The one who shut down the banks, the one who closed down the jobs with a criminal privatisation, could not have expected a better situation than to report something like a boomerang. We today have in our public finances two completely opposite processes. We have a permanent debt process to secure the current liquidity of the budget and we have ads based on a major surplus that appears. If it's such a big surplus and Dinkic's probably preparing a rebalancing now, so he'll hear it, someone will tell him to prepare himself, if such a surplus is formed, then let the taxes be reduced to citizens, businesses, customs rates. If he had accepted our proposal to go from 18% to 14% of the total value added tax rate, he probably wouldn't have shown a budget surplus. Since the surplus has proved to be a good starting position for next year, it must be realistically covered and it will, of course, be realistically covered, but at the same time will be liquid liquidity financing. Then we have a situation where on TV Mladjan Dinkic boasts that the budget is full of money, and you come to the joint service and you say – I should go on the official trip, and he says - we don't have money for bonuses. In this demented desire to control everything, the ministries were given a few days ago, as a new systematization of jobs was adopted, a gait letter from Mladjan Dinkic, and he said – please, if you call a contest to receive someone, you must first address the Minister of Finance's consent, so if I give consent then you can receive someone to fill in your systematization. So she won't say about her wife who took a few dozen salaries to quit her job in the federal administration and took a job in the republican administration. That Orlic's wife, she's over there at Lalovic's, an expert. She's been here for two years, she hasn't left this pay phone, she hasn't come out to say anything. There's an MP from before. Comes, walks, comes back, and over, expert on working relations. If you do something then you do it in an objective way. If the 56-year-old guy has to go because he's an extra, and he's a couple of years old until he retires, then he can't happen to hire someone at 57 years old. That's right: people are two or three years away from retirement, and ministerial assistants, deputy ministers, are 70 years old. You know everything. Serbia is a small space, everything is known what is happening in Serbia. I like to hear from you when you say it's not small. It is already some progress by the Serbian Radical Party. When we made you sing it wasn't small, then we really did it. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17251	Does anyone else want a word from this parliamentary group about the amendment? No, I don't. ) The word has been made by the People's MP, Homan, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17252	Your Honor, I fully agree with the predecessor that the quality of the law depends not on the number of hands raised, but depends on what it says, and that is why this law is good. He hasn't had his hands up yet. Also, analoguely, the quality of the amendments we listen to here depends not on the MP group who has submitted them to spend all of the maximum 15 minutes on each amendment and to talk a lot, but on what it says. To remind you, every amendment says, delete. I suggest that this amendment, like everyone else, be rejected, because it is unquality, sir, and so is this next one that will come after it. I once again, as I did the other day, ask you to really try not to go out again and say something quite tenth of what the amendment says. Explain what makes you think that every member of every law should be deleted, if you can explain it, and since you can't, I suggest you do what you already intend to do, when the day of voting comes you vote nicely against the law and that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17253	Thank you. One moment, please, Mr. Krassic, it's not correct. So, no one's mentioned, but I'm asking for one correction. Please, we're working on the Rules of Procedure and there's no reason, no one's saying anything here, everyone's trying in the best possible way to explain their position. Secondly, no parliamentary group submitted an amendment, so the Legislative Committee concluded, so I had to be asked to return. Everyone submits an amendment on their own behalf. Every MP has the right to submit an amendment. He, in an explanation, can be called on to be the attitude of the entire parliamentary group, it is the most natural, but parliamentary groups do not submit amendments. Of course, this is precisely why it is possible that from the same parliamentary group, according to the new Rules of Procedure, many who agree with the amendment use the time allocated under the new Rules of Procedure to members of the parliamentary group. There's no reason, and be kind enough to concentrate on the law. You're not mentioned, please, I'd like to intervene if you, Mr. Krasic, were mentioned. You certainly know and be kind enough to concentrate on the law. Besides, I don't know how many of you he knows, the public is currently focused on a tragic event in London, so we concentrate on our work. Please, if you insist, go ahead, but I don't think there's any reason, Mr. Krassic. Mr. Krasic, here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17254	Mr. Markovic, you probably didn't get a chance to hear it, my predecessor explained something, so he said he was different from his predecessor who was here, and I was the only one.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17255	In that case, there's no need for the Rules of Procedure. I'm giving you the right to a replica. Here you go. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17256	I do not want to take up much of your time, I will say very briefly: We are pleased when MPs of other parliamentary groups come out for the sake of our amendment to declare their parliamentary group's position, we are not angry if someone says – nothing is wrong with you, it is not good or you have made a mistake. My predecessor presented his parliamentary group's position on a concrete amendment submitted to a concrete member of the law. I also now ask the MPs to bear in mind the reasons why we defended the amendment and the reasons why G17 plus attacked our amendment, and there's nothing wrong with it. It's normal, it's supposed to happen in the Assembly, it's not supposed to happen on TV, it's here, in an open conversation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17257	Thank you. So, I'm just warning you, as I am Mr. Homan, everyone clearly says in whose name he speaks. Mr. Homan spoke for himself and that's what's been said here. Whoever wants to speak for someone else's sake, they say that. If he wants to speak for his group, he says. If on behalf of any other interested organization or layer that represents, because we often represent whole layers, workers or unions here, then that's clearly said. There's no reason to explain to each other who he's talking about. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17258	So, to make no mistake, I speak on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, just as all our MPs say. We do not have a sub-group in the parliamentary group and we do not need to single out opinions, as is happening in some other parliamentary groups. Of course, we don't say anything, and no matter what you, President, were just a few minutes ago a colleague who said that we were talking a lot of distractions about not using that expression, I still have to say that he was here yesterday and today saying all sorts of things and he's already out of the O.R., and of course his...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17259	Mrs. Radeta, I warn you, let's not do the same thing as there's no reason, the MP didn't come out of the room, be kind...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17260	I said you were the one who distracted me, and I knew you'd distract me, but I said what I said. Yesterday I was talking about it, I really don't know how to explain to my colleagues who don't have the patience to sit in this room, so you brought the Rules of Procedure, you don't have the obligation to sit down, you don't have to listen to us. If what we're saying is pointless, if it's crazy, you don't have to. We're talking to those who want to listen. We're trying to convince those who want to listen and accept our amendments. Our reasons and reasons are such that all Serbian citizens know them and we know, of course, that some people here don't like them. It is not likely to be pleasant to listen to those you believe in all that you think is not true, and everyone in Serbia knows that it is true. What do we do to you? It has been said that our amendments are pointless. The amendment to Article 10 shows - Article 10 is deleted. It may be pointless to someone, but now I'm going to read Article 10, and then all those who follow the work of this Parliament and colleagues sitting here evaluate how pointless a member of 10 is. A bill of this law. On a proposal from the Ministry, the Government sets out a proposal for negotiations on the borrowing of the Republic through credit and determines the composition of a delegation to conduct negotiations. This is such a tough job for the government. This when it's done, the problem is overcome. In the second position, the Ministry's representative has been present since the start of the procedure at all negotiations on the borrowing of the Republic. What does this mean? I don't know if anyone knows. The Ministry shall provide the Government with a report on the negotiations set out in Article 1 with a draft loan agreement. ′′ There is an end when it comes to the borrowing process. What happens next, of course, is not foreseen in the law. The position of Article 5(6) will probably be applied here where it says: ′′The Minister of Finance is the only one who has been authorised in the name of the Government and for the account of the Republic to negotiate borrowing and to conclude credit agreements, i.e. to issue government securities of value. ′′ It could probably be some interpretation of this Article 10, since according to the proposal of this, as some think, meaningful, and we radicals claim pointless, law, ends the story of the borrowing process by delivering the government's report to the position of the 1st member, with a draft loan agreement. Is the government going to say something, is it going to say -- this can't, this can't, under these conditions can't, under these conditions can't, it doesn't say in the law. These are your famous laws that you know where you're from and you have a problem again, like the previous government, which you hire bad translators; if you could at least take someone who knows the law to translate into the spirit of the Serbian language and our judicial system, maybe you'd look something like this law. Here during today's debate there have been speeches about how the current Finance Minister, Mladjan Dinkic, flourishing roses, only no one notices it, how he provided money for loans, agriculture, for the unemployed, for small and medium-sized enterprises, etc. Perhaps he intended it, and then perhaps he predicted that through this law of the public spirit he would owe the Republic of Serbia and provide these funds, since this is what is stated and these alleged loans are lies and deceptions. There are no loans in Serbia. Here and there, some favorite of that part of the government of the Republic of Serbia may have been credited, it is known that in this way the agriculture minister shared loans and it is known exactly who received the loans in one part of Vojvodina. It is known that no one in the Raske area has received credit, and it is known that individual people have sought credits, so since they have not received individual loans, then, unfortunately, as representatives of the undeveloped part of Serbia, they have addressed the ministry, addressed the government, to draw attention that they exist, so it would be nice for them to get some credit. Of course, they didn't get it. It has been said that he has provided funds for loans to the unemployed. Have someone come out here who represents the government's views and tell us how much money it is and how many people have received these loans individually for the unemployed. You know what they were looking for, and how many in the name of the administrative taxis they got for all these piles of paper people needed to bring in, so they'd finally be told they couldn't get a loan, not to meet the conditions. Imagine, someone gets fired, a tenant, doesn't have any property, but to get a loan as unemployed, to start doing something, there's got to be some real estate he's going to mortgage on. Well, if he was so taken care of, a man wouldn't be entering Dinkic's loans, expensive, of course. He says he provided loans for small and medium-sized enterprises. Who did he provide? Who got it? Don't just talk casually. You don't have to speak names, say the exact number and the amount. A man tells me, all happy he says he's doing some production, like a small company, now he'll get a loan from the government of the Republic of Serbia. I say, "No way, don't trust me." He says - I'll get it, they're writing a newspaper. The man has a close relative who is in the closest circle of Mladjan Dinkic and goes to see what he needs from his documentation to get that loan. His wife says, "Dear cousin, don't be shy, it's just a public story, don't let anyone know I told you, there's none of those credits." That's what we Serbian radicals have been talking about here for days. There's nothing you promise. If there were, if there were really loans distributed for agriculture, for the unemployed, for small and medium-sized enterprises, there would be no such people to be scolded and dissatisfied. I guess a number of citizens would be covered by one of this group of loans, so at least someone would start living better in Serbia. You well know, as we know, that unfortunately in Serbia every day lives worse and worse. We are an opposition party, but believe me, we would be happy that Serbia has a government that allows citizens of Serbia to live well. But Serbia doesn't have such a government. Serbia has a tycoon-influenced government, Serbia has a government that shakes affairs every day. No one is doing anything to resolve these affairs or to start something concrete. Serbia has a government where no one knows, no one is alive, no one is alive, no one is hearing, no one can see. There's the Deputy Prime Minister, there's the finance minister, there's the skeleton, there's the minister of agriculture. Imagine you, a skeleton with about 3% support among Serbian citizens, in Kragujevac 1.5%, leading the country's policy, making laws on behalf of Serbian citizens that will owe us even more. They don't want citizens to owe, they can't pay them back, they have nothing to live on. Turn once, you who support the government, call on that government (you made it possible, like, on paper and in the Rules of Procedure), invite the government's representatives to hear what the people think, to hear what they're going to ask them. Here, when they come, I asked these few questions today, so let them answer us specifically. Call them and tell them you'll deny them trust if they don't start doing the job you chose them for. Of course, I guess you chose them to lead this country, to make the people better, to get the people to live better. You can't do this anymore, my people. Are you aware that he collects something every day? This is where Minister Dinkic comes out and talks about reducing excise duties on oil and oil derivatives, and after 20 days, it collects fuel by three to six dinars. Electricity collects, and Dinkic comes out in April and says – no way, I don't let him collect, but that's why in July he collects. Are you aware that the people have nothing left to buy bread for, let alone daily follow your gatherings? How will you cover all this? New debts, public debt laws. Of course, he's crediting the IMF. Why not, why not make a colony of Serbia? That's what you want. It's your blind obedience, both the congregation majority and the Serbian government. Whatever the IMF says, you will, and you tell Serbian citizens that it is a condition for us to join the EU. Why don't you tell them that Slovenia didn't meet any of the only conditions that the IMF put forward for them, but it showed up and said, "Here, we're working like this, we're doing business like this, we're living citizens, so they said, "Yes, you can go to the EU." Where are you taking us, to which European Union? To be slaves; and then here Dinkic convinces us that false information is, and we don't need to be afraid, that we're not even close to debt slavery. Read what the experts in the area say. They don't just scare us, they come out with data, they say exactly what's waiting for us and where we're now. Of course, no one in the government is talking about it. You don't strip, not you, but representatives of the government, from small screens, come out and brag, don't know what they're boasting about. They're bragging about the new layoffs of the workers. Imagine the minister who, among other things, is in charge of the social part of this society coming out and telling how many people are going to get fired and saying that some law will be in the Parliament in July. The press asked me yesterday, and they also asked the president of the Assembly how the minister can, and the law was not yet in the government, to say when the law will be in the Assembly for discussion. Sure, sure. The ruling part of the Assembly is in office of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. There are smart people here, educated people. It's amazing you're not interested in reading what the government is offering us. Do not vote blindly for everything that Mladjan Dinkic and Miroljub Labus offer. It's not good for Serbia, and it's not good for you, you'll see, it's good for you in the next election. So once again, I urge you to take your relationship seriously with the government's proposals, seriously consider amendments to the Serbian Radical Party. It may seem to you, and to you sitting here, that it is pointless if the amendment only says that this member and that member are deleted. The bottom line is what we're telling you here. Our way of saying that this government is wrong, that this government is taking Serbia the wrong way, is to inform both you and the public of Serbia that the only way to try to explain what this is about is by saying to each member that the government through some law proposes that we delete and, of course, each in a different way and explain with a lot of arguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17261	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. I'm obliged to say, that you wouldn't happen to think I wasn't doing my job, according to Article 27, paragraph 1. All MPs who are working and reading received a report that, based on this position, the President of the Assembly has asked the Ministry of Agriculture and for several months now, as well as all MPs, is available to indicate exactly who is where and in which area he was credited, through which banks and according to what law. Please, if you happen to have colleagues who are members of the Agriculture Committee hiding from you, ask. If not, I'm ready to deliver one more time. If I understand correctly, the president of the Assembly is also asked to ask for information on whether and how much credit was granted to the unemployed. Did I get that right, Mrs. Radeta, or as a question? So you don't need a president. Here's a word from MP Jovan Todorovic, following the same amendment. Please, once again, the MPs who work have the opportunity to work when they receive time; when they do not win, we all have to intervene, which is what happens. That's one thing, the other is a political attitude. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17262	Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that this public debt law is very interesting for both our MPs and the public, because it regulates an area that has not been arranged so far. The amendment submitted to Article 10 in my country has prompted interest because I do not think that Article 10 of the Bill has been laid down, because after Article 3, it says, "The Ministry is delivering a report to the Government on the negotiations under Article 1, with a draft loan agreement", it is not clear what should then be done by the Government and those who are competent to make decisions in the borrowing process. There are, however, several specifics in Article 5 that could serve to interpret that everyone, in accordance with Article 5, will now make appropriate decisions, and it is said that the National Assembly will make decisions on borrowing for investment projects, that this same National Assembly will make decisions on the issue of guarantees and counter-guarantees, that the Government will make decisions on issuing long-term securities of value. So, the government here, by law, is not authorized to make a decision on long-term, or short-term borrowing. That's why it's so unclear what the government is going to do with the report, or the draft of the contract. Will it be given to the Minister for Finance, which, under Article 5, is authorised to be committed on behalf of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of a loan from which the current liquidity deficit or budget deficit will finance, or will the Government, in law form, be referred to the National Assembly for consideration, because in its jurisdiction, decision-making on long-term borrowing, or on the taking of credit for investment projects? It would be good if Mr. Dinkic were here to clarify this matter. It seems to me that this can only come out so that, if it is still possible under the Rules of Procedure, the Finance Committee will make an amendment that will specify what is further done with this document, which is called the report, or the draft loan agreement. By the way, when I came to this topic, I think it is extremely important that this National Assembly, in accordance with the public debt law, will be the only one empowered to make decisions on long-term borrowing. There's long-term borrowing here, as far as I understand the law, and I think I understand it well, any debt that extends over a period of more than a year. The minister is authorised to conclude contracts on behalf of the Government, but this implies that he works according to the government's decision, or by the National Assembly's decision. "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia decides on borrowing the Republic through long-term loans, debt to finance investment projects, guaranteeing and counter-guarantee, as well as on the direct commitment of debtors on the basis of a guarantee." So far, we have had jurisdiction only to decide the laws concerning counterguarantee. We didn't decide on guarantees, we didn't decide on loans for investment projects either. I think that, from the point of view of recognising the responsibility of whoever proposes or who makes the appropriate decisions on borrowing, it is very good that this National Assembly, through the MPs, and that means over all citizens, is ultimately involved in this borrowing process, because debt, as you know, is a very sensitive category. It is very important to manage these debts in a way that involves a good host. That good host knows what to do, knows how to do it and proposes appropriate decisions. In the budget deficit, we say this in the Budget Deficit Act – this year we will be able to borrow on the basis of the coverage of the budget deficit to that and that amount, because so far we have had a situation to finance the budget deficit mainly through short-term loans and privatisation. This is what we, as socialists, used to criticise in earlier times, we felt that privatisation funds should not be the funds that will be financed by the budget deficit, and yet, the minister here under the law has been authorised to cover that deficit, which was planned in that year, by taking appropriate loans from some sources available under this law. When we go into a longer story, when we want to build a highway, when we want to build a hydrocentrale, when we want to build a railroad, let's say, Loznica-Valjevo, then the National Assembly decides, because these are the means to be used in the long term, and over a period of more than a year and to return. In particular, it is important to define that these projects should encourage the economic development and overall development of the Republic of Serbia, to increase efficiency and efficiency of the economy. For me, in this law, it is a definition under which conditions can at all be defined by the Government or the Proposer in any ministry for the launch of the procedure for the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia, which should be decided accordingly by this National Assembly. I see in this an analogy with the Law on concessions, because it is also said in that law that the National Assembly, so MPs, or citizens through the MPs, decide what we will give to someone in a concession. Are we gonna give the hydrocentral "Gerdap" or not? Are we gonna give the freeway or not? Will we, under these conditions, give our resources to those who are interested in it for a period of up to 30 years? So I think that I should specify the proposal, that the president or chairman of the Assembly should, together with the minister, initiate this story of calling the Finance Committee in order to simply specify Article 10, and that it would be clear to all of us, and also to those who need to implement this law, how it is done after the events when the Ministry informed the Government of the negotiations carried out and delivered the draft contract.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17263	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. The 11th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17264	In order to discuss this amendment to article 11, which has the title: "Definition and Public Debt Management Strategy", I have to make a small reference to Article 10, where it is inevitably seen that the Ministry revolves around everything and everything. I must say that this Article 10 extends practically to these provisions that regulate the borrowing of local authorities, and not only with regard to the power of the minister to give an opinion, but also to the overall course of the borrowing process, although this is clearly not stated in this bill, but it loses the purpose and purpose of this whole law. Article 11 regulates public debt management in a way that the minister manages public debt and prepares a public debt management strategy, and the management of public debt covers several jobs and sets out four points: 1) carrying out transactions for risk management, including reducing or eliminating the risk of changing course, interest rates and other risks. Look, for this, he'd have to have a part of the service to deal with banking business. Further: 2) making decisions on the purchase and sale of foreign currencies; 3) monitoring of the daily balance on the consolidated vault account system. Basically, the entire public debt is being managed through the vault when it comes to the public debt of the Republic. Not to read these other points that also say that public debt is managed, but I am really asking the question – why have we introduced in the Law on the National Bank of Serbia a provision under which the National Bank of Serbia is obliged to carry out public debt management tasks for the account of the Republic of Serbia? Does Dinkic not trust Jelasic or calculate that if he resigns Jelasic, then someone else is chosen, then he has no collegiate control over what is happening in the National Bank, what is in the middle? And the National Bank of Serbia is a qualified institution for these matters of republican importance and why this should now go to the finance ministry. The finance ministry could prescribe what deadlines it gets from the NBS, who would do these jobs. Why are we building a bank from the Ministry of Finance? We don't need that. Whoever wrote this bill probably did not read the provisions of the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. So far, in all our regulations that regulated debt and debt payments, there has always been a provision for the National Bank, at the time of Yugoslavia, now the Republic of Serbia, to carry out these affairs for the account of the Republic, and, moreover, to perform the job on the basis of both the duties and local self-government, and if it is the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. Why does that change now and transfer to the Treasury? There's talk of a strategy where a cross-section is made by dates, when what comes, how to make an inflow, how to regulate payments to go within deadlines, how to concentrate funds, how to reconcile between direct users of these liabilities, and how to reconcile practically commitments towards the Republic, so the Republic sublimates and reconciles to credit obligations. That's what the National Bank of Serbia used to do. There's no reason why it shouldn't stay there. If it's a personal dispute, why did this guy buy a villa and this guy lives in an apartment, I hope it's transient, because the laws aren't passed because he's a minister at this point and some National Bank Governor. The law is passed because of an objective state as a neutral regulation, regardless of who personally manifests the role of finance minister and who is the personal governor of the National Bank of Serbia. Where does this mistrust within this group come from? They probably can't agree on the division of the spoils. It is said that the public debt management strategy is delivered to the government for adoption once a year. The same strategy can be made by the National Bank of Serbia and it can inform the Government of the Republic of Serbia and ask for consent from it, or by the government to assign someone to make that strategy, taking care of its obligations. The central question to which this bill does not provide an answer is: if the Republic is in debt, who returns the funds. Who pays off the anuities, does the Republic, is a public enterprise of republican importance? There is no answer to this question for the simple reason why there is no answer to the question of where this social accumulation is, where it manifests itself. The Republic of Serbia cannot express that battery through its budget, not whether it exists or not, but cannot express it. So, if there's some accumulation to look for space for some development, it's located in para-state institutions -- the public firm of Elektroprivreda for that part of the loan directed towards electricity, the NIS for those loans that are directed there, the Republic Roads Directorate for the part that is directed towards road infrastructure. There is some accumulation that provides funds to service these debts. If you know that and if you look at what's written in this law, then it turns out that Mladjan Dinkic pays everything out of his pocket. All he pays out of his pocket, the other no one exists, he manages the debt, he brings the strategy, Kostunica only needs to put on the agenda, it is immediately voted and we move on, so all areas are under his control. It's a completely reverse process from the one who's trying. I must tell you that some previous governments have been accused of ruling regulations, have been accused of large centralisation of Serbia. The real centralisation of Serbia took place the moment public finances became as centralised as they are now. Mladjan Dinkic is now preparing to prepare a media defence against rising inflation, calling it citizens, by accusing local self-government of uncontrollably raising housing and other services within the jurisdiction of local self-government. About a month ago, there was a picture: only in the congregation to adopt the Excise Act, the price of fuel falling, the fuel will be everywhere. Here, it's been a month and a half, the situation hasn't changed, and here we've told him it won't change the situation, so he asked the government to give it up to 20 percent if the price of crude oil on the market is to preserve macroeconomic stability, to reduce excise duty. There's all the instruments, so something's not working again. What's that? What's not working? It doesn't all work that he grabbed to put under his control. And, abnormal processes: we boast of surpluses, and there's no problem here with the price of oil derivatives. We boast of the surplus, and the state is in debt to secure the current liquidity of the budget. We boast of the surplus, and the state fires the workers. We boast of the surplus, no one can accept without the minister's consent. We boast of surpluses, pensioners are employed, and younger people are expelled from work. You know, after that someone comes out and says -- all amendments to the Serbian Radical Party should be rejected, because that doesn't mean anything, they're just suggesting that they be deleted. What should be left of this policy by Mladjan Dinkic? You interpret with every amendment where we ask that member to be deleted, G17 plus is deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17265	Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Milan Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17266	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as well as the previous set of laws relating to taxes and customs, and so this public debt law represents only one new imposition for the citizens of Serbia, and not well. That's why we Serbian radicals have submitted so many amendments. We simply ask for this to be deleted, because that is why we want this complete law to be deleted and not voted on or voted on. This law may be necessary, but this matter has to be arranged, as well as the borrowing strategy, in a completely different way. Here they did not give criteria on the basis of which the state is in debt, means there is no responsibility, although the minister told us there was no legal regulations for borrowing in the previous period. What do we have today? Under this law, we simply continue to drag ourselves and Serbian citizens into new debts. It will happen to us, according to statistics, that even children who are just born will be in charge between $12 and $15. I guess that's perspective, and that's the effect of this government and the praises we heard today from that G17 Plus expert, Zabunovic, or what they call it, I don't know, how Serbia is running honey and milk, how progress has been made, how citizens are satisfied and how they have reduced Serbia's country's debt and so on. Mr. Dinkic gets such powers with this law that he doesn't even have a Prime Minister. Simply, he's all here, he can negotiate loans, loans or if he powers someone. So, it can empower someone from the finance ministry that on behalf of the Serbian government, he's in charge. Let me remind you, here in this debate, as far as we sit in these benches, we have so far not had any developmental legal project that promises citizens some prosperity or economic and economic development, but only some kind of imposition, taxes, formation of some agencies, some bodies, and these are simply parasite bodies and more in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. This law is nothing more than a way to cover the deficit, borrow short-term loans, and thus the government wants to survive and survive. I wonder, and we should all ask ourselves, when in 2007, the payments of many loans taken by the Serbian government, headed by Ministers Dinkic and Velja Ilic, will continue to be submitted and maintained by citizens. Here one of the expert groups boasted that a billion-and-a-half-euro surplus was in the budget. I wonder whose money that is. It's tax-priced money, VAT-introducing money, that's citizens who are out of work, citizens who are out of work every day. He says we want to disburse the administration by firing 10% of the government's employees. Where are these people supposed to go? You have seen that citizens of Serbia-Montenegro's army, where they boast that they have fired over 5,000, are today left without bread, without work, are forced to drive people from 25-30 years of employment, people who have two or three children, who are now students or students. How are these people going to survive, and what have we solved? We just increased the number of unemployed, as they say it was before 900,000, and now there are almost a million. Mladjan Dinkic promised small businesses and those independent shops, the low-workers, to pay them back that terminal and what about it? There's nothing of it, because it's one bitch that's now being made in Serbia, and there's about 105,000 of them. So these are all deceptions and lies. This Article 12, on which I have submitted an amendment to delete, regulates some matter where the inflow of these loans is needed to regulate itself. How do we fix an inflow of funds? Again, these powers have a finance minister or someone he has authority over. It is particularly worrying that in the light of this law, it states that this law has been done on the basis of some knowledge and knowledge from countries in the environment that have been in charge for many years, I do not know which it is, only Albania is more in charge now than we are, and based on the experience of some experts and deputies. I find it strange that such an expert group is now asking for help from experts from far away America, from one country that is the most in charge of the world, from a country that does other people's money and that does all the evil on this continent. So these experts aren't strong enough to solve all this, they're asking for help from experts on the side. I couldn't add anything else here, but ultimately to say that this law has no precision or conciseness, nor is it good for this time in which we live, and especially for this Serbian government that boasts that everything is good, to increase exports, to increase labour employment, to have a surplus in the budget. So this legal project should simply be rejected. I suggest that you adopt amendments to the Serbian Radical Party during the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17267	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17268	Mr. Angelkovic, I will remind you of this argument, since you have suffered criticism for a time from a part of those you now support. Article 12 says that for the purpose of managing inflows based on public debt and public debt payments, the consolidated account of the Republic's vault has sub-accounts in domestic and foreign currency. In translation, it means that sub-accounts are being opened, and that's not a big deal. And in this set of counterguarantee laws, you'll see, we have some provisions, which is Article 4 or 5, almost every law where it's spoken of. However, when there was a change in the budget system in the Republic of Serbia, when there was a change in the banking system, so that the accounts were not kept with the PDO but with the business banks, when all of this was nicely networked, when it was said that legal entities do not operate through the giro accounts, but through the current account, then it was said that there was no sub-account. As evidence of this, I can give you a provision of the Law on the financing of political parties where it is said that the political party has its own business account and that sub-accounts are opened for the needs of the municipal committees. Of course, that law could not be applied, because no bank could open a sub-account, because such a system does not exist. It only exists when it comes to finance run by the Serbian vault. There's a sub-account allowed, because the vault essentially operates as a bank and you realized that the bank, and, Mr. Angelkovic, you and I and the previous government suffered great criticism over the sub-accounts, because they made up epics about these sub-accounts, so the methods of money laundering were unlawfully spent; they carried out all the possible controls, they found that everything was legal, but after they left, they had to keep that picture in the paper, so to keep that picture, they invented everything, and they even invented my own brother. As you can see, he can't subcalculate if it's someone else and it's retrograde, backwards, but when Mladjan Dinkic comes, then a subcalculation as a concept can exist. The previous government passed a regulation on payment traffic to banks as a kind of banking business, not a jury account with the PDO, but a current bank account. At the same time, the Law on the financing of political parties was adopted, where it was said that the municipal boards were in charge of their assets on the sub-accounts of banks, no one could open the sub-account, because no bank was allowed to open it; they knew, if they opened, that if they applied the Law on the financing of political parties and until they convinced the Youth, they had already shut them down. So here's the point of the vault becoming a bank for these jobs as well. I have to tell you that for those things where the Republic is directly in charge, there may be some justification in this concept, but this concept has no justification when it comes to public enterprises that are in charge of development projects and their development investments, such as the Elektroprivreda, the oil economy, and that I don't order other public enterprises of republican importance, which carry out the work of general interest. You see how that turns out. You probably got 10% of the popularity in 2000 in the story of criminal sub-accounts, and you see for yourself that you've become now... So Dinkic doesn't allow anyone to sub-account, but his vault can't do it without a sub-account. How to change the angle of observation. The second point is said – if the finance minister, i.e. the appointed person in the ministry (this is his deputy) which he has authorised, etc. Now the manipulation, not in a bad way, is the meaning of the word "manipulation", but of transactions, how to preserve the value of those funds that were given to the vault to pay off the loan, there is the possibility that it can be converted into different means of payment, so that the currency is changed. Let's say, if he was paying off in the dinars of the vault, and the state has a commitment in the euro, there's a possibility of a conversion to be secured in a relatively good time period, the dinars are converting into euro, waiting for a good opportunity, deleveraging, etc. The Minister has been authorized to do these jobs. What happens if the minister makes a mistake in the assessment or someone gives him bad advice? He had already proven himself during the redemption of our debt, because he estimated that this debt would have that value, so some other things happened, and there were some failures about buying out our debt, because there was a change in the discount. Where does one man's authority come from to decide these matters? Why would one man have that authority? You don't remember, you're young, sometimes in foreign trade on this territory here, in the former Yugoslavia, especially when it comes to dealings with Russia, where there was clearing, a central topic of which some companies and some banks lived was a matter of course differences. It is not updated to these scales because of this artificial maintenance of this course, but who guarantees that it will not happen, let change and who guarantees that the one who decides as an individual about these funds that he has collected in the meantime, waiting for a time period when a debt is to be served, did not convert it into the wrong currency. I will remind you, your experts who go around with stars, the European Central Bank defends the euro by keeping two-thirds of the foreign exchange reserves in dollars. The European Central Bank does not trust the euro. The largest monetary institution in Europe doesn't trust the euro and makes the conversion, keeps it in other currencies, and you convince us that honey and milk will come out, only to give the right to the Junior or his deputy to determine when to convert to and into which currency.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17269	According to the same amendment, Mr. Angelkovic has the word. Otherwise, as you know, every bank keeps its reserves in another currency.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17270	I'm not replicating, I have the right to discuss the amendment. In the end, the debate on amendments serves to convince each other of the arguments we make. Mr. Krasic has no reason to convince me, I am convinced of what he was saying. It shows something else, it shows, in fact, that this is how it should be written and that we were right by 2000. Therefore, when it comes to sub-accounts and special accounts, I remind you, for the sake of the public and for those who have now written this, that for three years we have been on the agenda because of these special accounts and sub-accounts, three years there has been a debate on the final bill for 1999 and 2000 on how inadmissible, criminal activity, hundreds of crimes and criminal charges were due to sub-accounts and special accounts, and these are still water procedures, and here we are in the position now to write that the government has the right to open sub-accounts. I hope, Mr. Krasic, I'm not calling you, please don't rephrase, because I didn't hurt you very much, that we'll discuss this issue when we finally get to discuss the final bill for 2001, so let's see how it worked without a sub-account; for 2002 and 2003, but at least for 2001, we haven't solved it yet. We have not yet settled the final bill for 2001, as is known to the public, this assembly has not yet adopted the final bill for 2001, although it is express for 1999 and 2000, because it was then to be presented, to create a play on millions and planes in Cyprus and the like, but we have not discussed the final account for 2001, 2002 and 2003. I ask publicly here that at least now when we get rebalancing we get that final bill for 2001, so let's see how the sub-accounts work and how they can function, even the political parties, you're absolutely right, without a sub-account, and with the obligation that whoever's the signator and authorized, I am in the SPS, of course, the power of all 160 presidents of the municipal boards in Serbia to sign all possible accounts, assume obligations, and that you're in charge, even though you don't have the ability to control all of that. Therefore, it should be possible in this law, but also in other laws, to create conditions for the person who manages the means and answers, not for one to respond, but for hundreds of others to manage the means. This once again confirms that it is good when there are special incomes, special responsibilities and special agencies. Mr. Krasic, you've only helped, so I'm in favour of not accepting your amendment, but that according to what is written in this law, it's in the second law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17271	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 27, I am obliged to inform you: the intervention of the President of the Assembly, precisely because of the problems you spoke about, has been given the order since October, the contract with the auditor has been concluded and the final account for 2001, 2002, 2003, and now for 2004, because we have passed a precise law, this will be much easier. It is precisely because of the need to consider it that it is important that the congregation finishes the search of a whole series of draft laws that are on the agenda as soon as possible. At the same time, because of your obligations and rationality, I am taking the opportunity to inform you, under Article 85 paragraph 5, working hours will be extended after 18.00 hours until the debate is completed in particular on the 17th item of the agenda, so the point we are considering. There won't be a session tomorrow. It'll be on Monday at 10.00 hours. Does any other parliamentary group want a word on the same amendment? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Finance has submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. The proposing representative accepted this amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Zivan Vladimirovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has a National MP, Zivan Vladimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17272	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 13. A bill on public debt which, like the rest of our amendments, reads to be deleted. In order not to make this amendment seem pointless, I'm going to have to read Article 13, so I can clarify what this article is about. Article 13. The draft public debt law reads: ′′The public debt represents the unconditional and irrevocable obligation of the Republic to pay off the principal, interest and other related costs. The obligation to pay the public debt referred to in Article 1 may be in domestic or foreign currency. The repayment of public debt shall have a permanent apropriation in the Republic's budget and a priority in payments compared to the other public expenditure set out in the law governing the budget of the Republic. The provisions of the law governing the budgetary system relating to the suspension of budget implementation do not apply to the payment of public debt. What does this mean? In short, this means that the payment of the loans taken is in advantage of pensions, education salaries, healthcare funds, children's allowances, so that it puts into an unspeakable position a future government that will have to pay off these loans that Mladjan Dinkic will take for both what he needs and for what he doesn't need. This would seem about as if I were in charge, so my kids and my grandkids have an obligation to pay it off, and all that debt is in advantage of their basic life needs, so this is a member that's not applicable and that doesn't lead to anything. I would ask the MPs to vote on this amendment in the day of the vote and to completely drop this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17273	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Krasic, following the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17274	Article 13 is interesting because it is in its own way proof that what is referred to in Article 2(2), where the definition of public debt is given, is now trying to correct it, to show what it is: ′′The public debt represents the unconditional and irrevocable obligation of the Republic to pay off the principal, interest and other related costs. ′′ These two words are completely unnecessary, if what is a public debt is given – a commitment is made on the basis of a previously taken loan – then the unconditionality and irrevocability of the unnecessary word, because the obligation exists on the basis of the concluded agreement. She's reaching some deadlines, and she's contracted as a non-revocation and she's unconditional and there's no need to put herself in here, because this is the ingredient of the definition of public debt. It's the first thing that suggests that this was done lightly. What does that obligation involve? Public debt is a liability, a contractual obligation, and it's defined through the principal, interest, and probably this corresponding cost. What deserves special attention in this article, that is, paragraph 3 which says: ′′The public debt repayment has a permanent appraisal in the Republic's budget and a priority in paying in respect of other public expenditures set out in the law governing the budget of the Republic. ′′ Here there is only one word missing, that this appraisal that has its own income and expenditure side represents something that is purposeful and that purposely is a special continent in something wider. That is why the wrong word — priority — is used here. That is why the MP rightly criticised it, is it possible that this has priority over other obligations that the state has over budgets towards citizens and other institutions. This is where the word was to be used - intentional. These are the means of purpose. So it's originally aimed at fulfilling some obligation. That's what this is about. What do we do, people all think priorities, then priorities, and they chase priorities, and they fight priorities. This is a good opportunity to inform the public of something very often some MPs abuse. When this and previous government is exalted, then it is said – since we arrived after 5 October, obligations and debts to abroad are served neatly. To be serviced, it is true, but before that, in all the budgets of the SRJ, which was then approached abroad and that was the system, there was an item of international membership, membership of international organisations, funds for the payment of loans. Then I have to tell you, the funds were provided, but there was no payment, because the ino-partner wouldn't accept the funds. The funds for membership in international organisations have always been allocated, and the payment could not be made because international organisations, because of their relations and the fact that since 1 May 1992 we have been under sanctions, one degree, another degree, and finally the financial and payment-transport organisations, did not want to receive. If one boasts that since 2001 he has served these debts to international organisations and has maintained this financial correspondence, for public and public reasons, it should be known that such willingness existed in this country and that the obligations could not be fulfilled because the trustee did not want to receive fulfillment. That's the truth. There's room for you to criticise politically, but don't criticize on the basis of facts, because the facts deny that story. Maybe someone hated us, so we didn't have good political relations, so there was no payment. There has always been a willingness and always been the means to meet international obligations. We have submitted this amendment with the same content as the previous amendments, due to a conceptual disagreement with these solutions. It says – the provisions of the law governing the budgetary system relating to the suspension of budget execution do not apply to public debt repayment. It's all acceptable. It just has to be said that these assets and that this appraisal is intended and, by definition, the concept of appraisal is meant for something purposeful. It's a completely unnecessary word priority here. There's no priority, it's the means. They are provided within some deadlines, and these funds are also placed within some deadlines, and taking into account maturity, they go through the budget and they would also go through if they were led to the National Bank. That has to be said, even with the National Bank, if managed by public debt, again, those funds would be some kind of budget projection, because we have a budget system that is more or less acceptable for all public revenues and all public expenditures to be seen in this part. We haven't gotten to those stages yet, I have to tell you, our budget hasn't seen all the public finances yet. No, but I hope whoever drew that concept, the Bozidar Djelic, and now he's in business, didn't know it wasn't possible. None of us wanted to warn him that what he imagined was not possible; there are mandatory insurance funds, as well as other para-state institutions that also have an obligation to show their incomes and expenditures, but that it doesn't exactly have to be included in the budget, because if it were all included in the budget, then the question is why you formed a para-state body, why didn't you make a state body. That's what this is about. The fact that someone created a picture that everything has to be in the budget and to be seen, you can see for yourself that it wasn't carried out in practice in practice with us, and it can't be implemented, and that's what needs to be known. Please pay attention to this amendment as well, MPs who support the government. I would advise you to give a few words, some professional word and a representative of the government and the Prime Minister and with your people in the government, to point to these problems. Believe me, 99% of what we're saying here is serious reasons why this law needs to be withdrawn and reconsidered. Don't let us crash and, at any cost, pass the law because the government said - an emergency session, now we're going to push it all through. You've seen for yourself, who does what, we've been changing five laws for the past year and a half. At each meeting, we change five laws: taxes, excises, licking, banks, guarantee fund, housing loans. We're going around in circles, and big things are going past us.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17275	Anyone else by this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boban Vojnovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Boban Vojnović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17276	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister Dinkic is gone today, there are no legislators, and we are discussing the law. One of my fellow MPs just said that Mr. Minister, along with Keb and the other folk stars, is on one of the Belgrade rafts, on some folk parade, and that he will not attend this debate today.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17277	Please, Mr. Vojnovic, the Parliament is in control of the government, and we certainly wouldn't allow that kind of thing. We've called the representatives of the promoter. Be kind, there's no reason to give such unnecessary information.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17278	Mr. Markovic, it is your business and legal obligation to ensure the presence of a representative...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17279	That's right, and compared to that, the representatives are here. When it was a principle debate, I provided, of course, for the Assembly I represent, the presence of the minister, as well as on committees, when these amendments were discussed. Be nice, I'll give you your time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17280	On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 14. The proposal for a public debt law shall be deleted. In principle debate, and through amendments to the SRS, you have been shown that individual members and individual solutions in this law are very badly arranged and that they should be changed. Our main objection is to give too much authority to an individual, no matter what function that man is in. The Serbian Radical Party believes there is no need to form any special administrations to monitor how and how much the states are in debt. All of this can be transferred here to the National Assembly, so that the MPs know, and the public as much as the states and their citizens are in debt abroad. The Ministry can control and monitor all of this through its inspection services, without forming any special administrations. But Minister Dinkic said Serbia no longer needs to be in debt, so I wonder why we are passing this law. Is it because this law legalises the current borrowings of Serbia, carried out illegally, both from the present and his predecessor? Gentlemen of the government, you've put us so much into debt, and our citizens haven't had any use for these loans. Instead of investing those loans in the economy, so that the money is slowly returning, you form agencies, special administrations, governmental and non-governmental organisations, all of which cost and all of this is funded by Serbian citizens. I really don't know what this law is, if the minister said the other day that Serbia should no longer be in debt and that all our debts are forgiven. We in the SRS, as well as Serbian citizens, know that no one will forgive our debts. I don't know who these Westers forgave their debts to. So far, no one, most likely not us. It's no good that you're so in charge of us that our grandkids and their grandchildren will have to pay back your debts. For that, and for all this I have said, I consider Article 14. The bill of this law needs to be deleted, because it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17281	Anyone else by this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milivoje Vukovic. Before we move on to this member, I assume that the word will be given by MP Milivova Vukovic, a break by 15.00 hours. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Once again, good afternoon. The People's MP Milivoje Vukovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has been made by the People's MP Milivoja Vukovic. I remind you once again, for those who may have been prevented from hearing in their offices, they will be working longer today, if there is any need, because in fact they will be working to complete the debate on details on the 17th point of the agenda – the draft public debt law. Tomorrow the Assembly will not be in session, but will continue on Monday at 10.00 hours. Thank you, Mr. Vukovic, for waiting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17283	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 15. The bill on public debt, which reads, "Article 15 is deleted." This is another law in a series of your failed laws, and that is why we from the Serbian Radical Party had to submit amendments to the law again, which are identical, because we wanted the whole law to be deleted, that is, to withdraw from the procedure, because it brings nothing good to the citizens of this country, but only new borrowings and continued poverty. In the light of this law, it was said that the experiences of countries in the environment were used, and the assistance of US experts who specifically insisted on solutions recommended by the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank were also used. Here, again in writing our laws and despite our experts from this encrypted party, foreign experts are involved. Well, don't we have our qualified experts, but we need foreign experts? Here, the other day our paper published that our law school students were at a prestigious world competition better than students from the famous Oxford. So why do we need foreign experts for everything? Or does that sound better when you put it in a statement that these foreign experts have helped us too? As long as we hide behind them, and they are far behind us. By the way, the first two seats were won by students from countries who were the main organisers and sponsors of the competition. The borrowing control would be carried out by Dinkic, the finance ministry, through the newly established Public Debt Administration. So again, new management and new employment of party colleagues. It's not about professionalism anymore, it's about party membership in employment, and now it's about going on, so people are being taught to join the G17 plus party to get a proper job. I'm not saying this as a phrase. I'm saying this as an argument. It is a public secret that many hectares throughout Serbia are sown by genetically modified soybean. I give you an example from the Sword, where I come from. The farmer of agriculture visited fields sown with soybean and threatened to destroy two acres of soybeans, that is to say, because it is forbidden to sow genetically modified soybeans. At the request of the peasants, his neighbour, that he did not, he offered him a solution, which is that he would spare him on condition that he would approach the party G17 plus. I'm now asking if this peasant himself produced that genetically modified soybean or did he buy it from someone? Well, the one who breaks up the seed remains unpunished and rich. Now, there's nothing an inspector can do about it, but that's why he can destroy a peasant two acres of crops or blackmail him. Well, how long is that? We're not stopping the problem at the beginning, we're treating the consequences that are so painful at the time. Finally, let me also refer to Article 15, paragraph 3, where it is said, "The finance minister can conclude a contract with the National Bank of Serbia to carry out certain public debt payments." There's the finance minister again, he's been given God's power to conclude a contract with the National Bank of Serbia, and no one else. For all things said, we from the Serbian Radical Party are against this law in general, and we will not vote for it in the day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17284	Thank you, Mr. Vukovic, for the construction. The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic, following the same amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17285	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the only amendment that could have been put on Article 15 is an amendment that would have been read – Article 15 is deleted. Please pay attention, I'll read you article 15. If there's anything you can understand, you'll tell me later on your break. He says this: "In the course of the implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget, changes cannot be made to the public debt depreciation plan, as well as to the methodology for applying the plan, except in the event of adjustments to these payments to public debt commitments. "So I can't change, except in case they change. Such an unbulbable member deserves no other amendment, but an amendment – Article 15 is deleted. After all, such an unblessing law does not deserve any other solution except – the bill, as such, is deleted. The question arises as to how we have functioned so far until, as my predecessor said, foreign experts are not, firstly, foreign, but domestic, and experts are particularly not. How did we regulate, how has the state of Serbia regulated this issue so far? Very simply, I will now read to you a member of 53 who says, "On the day of entry into force of this law, the provisions of Article will cease to apply. 52, 53, 56, 57, 58, 59 and 60, and Article 73 of Item 1 2) and (4) of the Budgetary System Act ("The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", No. 9/02 and 87/02)." So these aren't the retrograde laws that some international government passed before the Bulldozer Revolution, but this is the law that you passed in 2002. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I think the smartest thing that the National Assembly can do is invite someone from that ministry, the phantom ministry, because there's no one here today from that ministry, and that it eventually solves for us Members of this dilemma, so, to come here with one single task, a very short task -- to pull this law out of the process, to come up with or to find someone who will come up with a little more quality legal solution and then to come before the MPs. I suggest, ladies and gentlemen, that in voting day, when voting on this amendment, you press the green button.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17286	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. A representative from the Ministry is this lady you see here. National MP Gordana Gajic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Rodoljub Gačević. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Pantyhose, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17287	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that Article 17 of this law be deleted for the following reasons. Article 17 refers to the amount of guarantee funds, and the article literally states this: "The Republic can provide a guarantee for the reconciliation of debt of debtors under the conditions laid down in Article 16(3) of this Act... "and so on. Article 16 paragraph 3 of this Law states: "The Republic may grant guarantees under Articles 1 and 2 of this Article in accordance with the law... "and so on. It again calls for the position of 1st and 2nd members and is said: "The guarantees set out in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this article are given in the form of the law". I don't know if anyone understands this. Just one phraseology that's unknown. There's a vague phrase trying to explain it again with vague phrases. So, as is said, if a debt is to be defined first, to say what is the amount, and then to put it on paper, and to express it in some nominal number, in some currency, in dinars, in euros, or if it cannot be expressed as a percentage in relation to some amount of the funds of a fund, budget, national income or anything, what is being considered here in the Assembly is what we plead and we make a decision, because it is true that so many and so many funds are approved. In that case, it is known what the amount of the funds, what it refers to and what the limit, to know what the goober is, which is what we can cover ourselves with, and this is completely unclear. That's why we suggest that this member be deleted, because it's better not to have this member than to have one like this. This is what the people would say, just spilling from hollow to empty. Why is this defined in this way, or rather, undefined? He's trying to personify the entire state in one finance minister or something. The fate of the state will depend on him; on him, on his commission, the percentage will depend on what will happen to one nation. When a state goes into such a difficult situation, it would be as understandable as it can be to get any kind of payment, even if it's a debt crisis, even if it's some cases of seizing property, ships in some ports, blocking some accounts, etc. However, there is a much more difficult situation, we will have a problem with the sovereignty of our country. As far as we can see from this, the purpose of the whole law is to bring the whole nation and the people into debt slavery. As a result, I would not be surprised if, after that, somewhere in Belgrade, perhaps in Avali, where that tower, like the one used to be in Sparta, set up a stone debtor on which to write -- Serbia is obliged to deliver this and that, Serbia must give up sovereignty over some part of the territory, say Kosovo, to abolish the army, to reduce the police, etc., so all that directly concerns the sovereignty of a nation. That would mean, in practice, we'd be left with no country. Fatherland, gentlemen of Parliament, we have no right to sell because we didn't even buy it. We have inherited it from our fathers, our grandfathers, our great-grandfathers, and we owe it to new generations, our sons, our grandchildren, our great-grandsons. For these reasons, we have no moral right, nor must our future generations become a nation without a country, such as the Palestinians today. There's something I'd like to say about these loans that were spoken of. It's true he has the credit. I, as a private entrepreneur, tried several times to apply for a loan. Credits exist, but it looks like this: it has the right, same as the right to work, but it's a limited right, because it's said that there are so many and so many funds and can only get one part of the users, or 1-5 percent. So on 20 of them one can eventually get a loan. All those conditions need to be met, which means he's making a business plan, to collect all the paperwork that he's been liquid for so long, six months, maybe more, and eventually to give some guarantees. In the end, after all that, there's nothing. You know who's gonna get the loan? He'll get one at 20, and by the principle of who gives a commission up to 10 percent. Such a system goes from bottom to top. You know how it goes, you don't have to explain it, at least the citizens know it, and those who used these loans know how to do it. There's someone out there who's a middleman, usually a courier or a scribe, and they're gonna give him money, and that's how it's gonna go, something's gonna take the fund manager, something's gonna go to the minister and so on. That's the way there is, pro-forme here, it's right, but practically that right can't take advantage of up to five percent, and most of those who are looking for a loan, that's what these funds are.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17288	Thank you, Mr. Pantyhose. Here you go, Mr. Markovic. I hope you talk about the issue on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17289	Before I move on to the defence of this amendment, Mr. Gačević has now discovered the code for how credit can be obtained – so you need to provide 19 more of those who will seek credit.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17290	I just asked you, Mr. Markovic, because I did not interrupt Mr. Gačević out of respect to finish the sentence, but a clear member of 103 says – the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda, and I also asked you if you would talk about what is on the agenda. Be nice, you're talking about the amendment the Legislative Committee has rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17291	I will talk about the amendment, and because the Legislative Committee has rejected the amendment, it does not literally mean anything to Serbian citizens either, because we have submitted the amendment knowing that your committee will reject it. We defend the amendments against the citizens of Serbia and we will all account for the next day, political accounts for the citizens of Serbia when the elections come. As for this dilemma of Mr. Gačević, let him get 19 more of them who seek credit, he will surely get the 20th. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 18, on which the amendment was submitted by Mr Gačević, reads: "A commission can be charged for the guarantee. The finance minister is closer to regulating conditions that must be met by debtors in order for the Republic to guarantee... "Here we come to what is the alpha and omega of everything and in this legal project and in yesterday, from the day before yesterday. We have clearly identified one single fact, which we have already repeated several times: the finance minister is sickly seeking to bring all financial flows under his own personal control, the finance minister wants simply pathologically to hold all the strings of finance in his hands, wherever the finance minister's money smells, he has to put his nose on. It is said that it regulates the conditions that debtors must fulfil in order for the Republic to give a guarantee. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Ministry is a state institution. The minister is just an official in the government. I accept that it says here that the government is editing, I accept that the ministry says so, but the minister can't, because we've had opportunities in several members and in this law to see that the minister can be authorised. The minister may also have the authority of that scribe who seduces the mail if you give him such broad authority. Therefore, for this member, the only correct amendment is the amendment that is to be deleted and deleted. The trade deficit, created so far, is 5 billion euros. We are entering into debt slavery directly, and I am afraid, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if soon someone does not restrain the finance minister or come to an extraordinary parliamentary election, that the finance minister of all of us Serbian citizens, all of Serbia will play tango argentino.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17292	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) As you know, the government cannot create a trade deficit, the government does not trade, it is done by economic operators, so we have no reason to control it on this matter, but for everything else anyway. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17293	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I came forward under this amendment for the reason that speaking in principle of this law I was just talking about Article 18. Namely, the title above article 18 reads – Conditions for granting guarantees, and if you read this, you will see that none of the conditions for which the Government of the Republic of Serbia would guarantee possible borrowing, but could therefore be the title above this member – commission or, as I said it in principle, racketeering. Why the racketeering? Look at Article 1, and you'll see who can be in charge and the government gives him a guarantee. These are: the Republic of Serbia, the territorial autonomy unit and local self-government, the Republic Health Insurance Institute, the Republic Fund for PIO and the National Employment Service. Who does the government charge a commission to? One part of these institutions that I have listed, normally, will not have a rating with international financial organisations that can be in charge of and for them the government, I suppose, is absolutely logical, should give a guarantee, but who will be charged by the government because it gives the guarantee, when mostly those in charge, which are listed in this law to be in charge, are financed from the budget? In a way, we can say that this Ministry of Finance is trying to recalibrate itself, which is very unusual. I'll tell you something else - a commission can be charged for the guarantee. You will see after you reach Articles 20 and 21, where we also have amendments, so just to make it easier to explain this Article 18, to mention these members, how it actually works when you charge a commission to those you finance. He says in Article 20: "The repayment of the obligation for which the Republic has given the guarantee is due. "The next article says that if the debtor does not execute these obligations, the Republic practically pays off. If he pays off the Republic, why isn't it provided for in criminal provisions what happens to a debtor who can't pay off his obligations? The following happens: the largest number of local self-governments are committed to local ones, they raise loans to business banks, mostly domestic banks, in dinars, and they have no intention of returning loans, because they cannot be returned from funds that are full of budgets; and you will see it on a large number of municipalities, that they have been in debt both last and before last year, that they have not returned the principal, in fact they only pay interest. And this year, the largest number of local self-governments predicted borrowing. And for this borrowing, the practical guarantee must be given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but if they do not repay the debt, the Government will repay, or the Republic of Serbia will repay the debt, but those in charge have no obligations, nor in any way in criminal provisions they force to repay the debt. I am telling you that the largest number of local self-governments, i.e. the president of municipalities that will be in a situation, will take money from banks and will deliberately not repay debts, because nobody is forcing them to do so, will finance their budget deficit, and then we will come into a situation that the government will practically take a commission under such conditions. If he takes a commission under Article 18 of this Act, that commission will have to be given, and additional funds to repay the loan.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17294	Thank you. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by MP John Day. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has been given to the People's Messenger John Day. I'm sorry, I didn't see you. I ask all MPs to raise their hands high, I have not seen you, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17295	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 19. The draft public debt law, which reads "Article 19 is deleted". This law is not good because this law re-indebted us and dragged us into debt slavery with unfavourable loans that Serbia will not be able to pay. With a destroyed economy, no production, no real sources of income, we're not in a position to meet our already arrived obligations, and you'd be borrowing us again. How do you plan to pay for those loans? By selling this little bit of the economy that's left? What happens after there's nothing left to sell? That's not good. It can also be dangerous, because it is decided by Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, who is known for various affairs instead of the government. He is the only one authorized to negotiate loans, give guarantees and transfer funds from a special account to the account of the credit user. Credits can be granted to an autonomous province, local self-government and some legal entities that meet the conditions for obtaining guarantees, i.e. loans. Which are the faces, we can assume, and we can assume that there will also be abuse. That is why I suggest you support the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17296	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17297	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 19 should also be adopted and Article 19 deleted from the bill. Article 19(2), what I was talking about, says: "Minister of Finance, or appointed person in the Ministry which he mandates, gives the order to transfer the funds of the loan... "So, the person he empowers. The government is transferring its powers to the minister by this law, the minister is transferring his powers to a person he has authority over, and if this is how it goes, then the minister will be able to empower a person to empower the other person, and so on. It is a very responsible and very large asset for the citizens of Serbia, because every single euro, every euro in the budget, every penny in the budget is, above all, the funds of the citizens of Serbia. In connection with what Mr. Rankic has said as an explanation of the amendment, a typical example of borrowing local self-government is the municipality of Grocka where Serbian radicals have now taken over power and with power have taken over a debt of 400 million dinars and an empty register. It just looks like you're at a bar, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, very October and you'll be leaving very soon, and knowing that you're leaving and that you no longer owe you the maximum local self-government, sucking the last penny out of the pockets of Serbian citizens, and then you'll be able to say – here's your power, so rule. I suggest that this amendment also be adopted in the voting day and that this member of the law be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17298	Anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stevica Dedjanski. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milos Disic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Milos Disic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17299	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted to article 21 of the amendment, which reads to be deleted. There's a lot being said here for which reasons it needs to be erased, and it really needs to be erased, so that one day we can take this mess off the agenda and not harass those MPs who don't have to and don't want to listen to those who want to work here. What exactly is this about? And then I'm going to set up obvious examples where you're going to make sure that you really don't have to stand in the law like this and that it has to change. If you don't have a better text, then really delete this and we don't allow people who are prone to fraud, blackmail and various machinations to perform these manipulations with the help of this member and the law. Looking at this law that we have submitted amendments, this is where the state has made itself a debtor, because in criminal provisions, and that is what Mr. Rankic said before me, it does not stand who will answer if he raises the loan, and he cannot repay it and repay it. So they're going to go back to the state and it's going to be a government debt. Is there as much debt as the state currently has that we still need to be in debt? I'll give you an example of the Indji municipality. You will see that it gives them the right to continue to be in debt without anyone returning. They plan to raise 4.5m euros at the international bank to further build the Indji municipality. For all this until now, what they've been doing -- and there's evidence from the Ministry, I've brought here to Mr. Loncar, that they've owed the municipal budget over 80%, and we know that by the law in force, they couldn't have been in charge of the municipal budget in one year more than 25% -- really no one has responded to criminal charges. The Ministry, the judiciary and all the authorities that could do it didn't deal with the case. These days, local self-government in India is preparing to raise a fourm-euro loan. With these laws and these regulations provided for by this law, it is possible for such irresponsible local self-government to remain the debt of the Republic, in the event of a loan. This law should not be allowed and should not be adopted. Please, let's be wise in time, let's withdraw the whole law, write a better text, if we're capable, if we have an expert from that area, and the SRS has them. Ask Zoran Krasic to make you a law that will pass here and be good.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17300	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk ambassador, Momcilo Duvnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17301	Ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment to the public debt bill on Article 22, and I suggest that that member be deleted. The government of the Republic of Serbia and government ministers almost daily place citizens and MPs before the final act. As an emergency procedure, we should consider the draft public debt law. Simply put, we should give the green light as Serbia will continue to be in debt, as well as provinces, municipalities, social insurance organisations, public enterprises and others. Is that what we're supposed to do in an emergency procedure? It is normal that citizens first need to know what our total debt is, who, on what basis, is in charge, where that money is, who gave it and under what conditions, and only then, to conduct the debate further. It must be one thing, this is a very complex question for all of us. That's why it's not easy and it's not easy to sign off on someone's orders from abroad and turn it into some kind of law. We also want to know why this issue is not regulated by existing laws, such as the Budgetary System Act. We need to know what the public debt is doing to the National Bank of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. No one seems to be taking care of this, and no one's paying anyone's bills, no one's answering anyone's questions. Under the laws now in force, every legal person can be charged. To us MPs, we have been rushed to this proposal, and we are really unable to give the right amendments, because it is not the right law. For reasons we will not support this proposal, but citizens need the explanations and answers I asked for in this presentation. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as an ordinary man, and I consider myself an ordinary man, because I am a craftsman, I can't understand that there are people sitting in the government with some titles -- doctors, masters, experts, and they're proposing such ridiculous laws. If they think these financial powers will pass everything they've been ordered from abroad to pass by the law, they won't be able to and they're wrong. They can do it for a while, until autumn, and in the fall, the people, dissatisfied citizens and peasants will come out and tell them everything. Gentlemen, we've forced you to clean up. You know what our people say, when you send a rabbit out into the open, he has nowhere to go and it's easy to shoot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17302	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Markovic. National MP Momir Markovic following the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17303	Well, let's try, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, explaining the amendment to Article 22, to ultimately strip the nebulise called the Public Debt Bill. Article 1, if you remember, says - this law regulates the conditions, manner and procedure of borrowing of the Republic of Serbia (hereinafter referred to as the Republic), the territorial autonomy unit and local self-government, the Republic Health Insurance Institute, the Republic Funds for PIO, the National Employment Service, etc. So they can be in debt and the state guarantees them, and Article 22 says, "The debtor has an unconditional and absolute obligation to pay the Republic the amount of the obligation she made to the trustee on the basis of the guarantee given. "So, if the debtor cannot pay, the state guarantees that he will pay the debt and then the state on the basis of the guarantee she paid. If local self-government is charged abroad, the Republic of Serbia will guarantee, the Republic of Serbia will pay the debt. If the Republic Health Insurance Institute is in charge, the Republic will also pay the debt, given that it has given the guarantee. It says, in paragraph 2 – if, on the basis of a guarantee given, and in the case of a direct takeover of a debt under a guarantee given, the Republic has fulfilled that obligation instead of the debtors, the Republic shall have the right to recover principal, interest and other costs incurred due to non-execution, i.e. untimely execution of the obligation, up to the amount of the settled obligation, as well as the right to charge interest from the debtor. Local self-government units live literally on what the Ministry of Finance has through budget allocations to them. If they could not fulfil this obligation, so the Republic of Serbia has fulfilled this obligation, on what basis and how will the Republic of Serbia tomorrow provide funds from one municipality, say? Will she be suspended, which she says in Section 2, future budget payments to the amount of funds she's paid? What's this local self-government gonna do, how to survive? Then it is best for Dinkic to pass one law and that he can shut down the municipalities as it comes to mind. Will the PIO Fund, which took out a loan to pay off pensions, if it can't pay back and the guarantee is paid by the state and the state, literally to take out all the funds, so the fund can't pay off pensions, will we leave the pensioners without a pension? Then say, "People, there's no pensions and no dots." Is there going to be health insurance? No treatment, no point. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the next day, when this early autumn comes and elections come and you leave the political scene, do not only recognize you as the gravediggers of Serbian politics, but also the gravediggers of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17304	Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17305	Article 22, in addition to these shortcomings that may likely lead to these consequences that my predecessors have discussed, contains one major disadvantage, because here the term debtor is used practically in two separate cases, in two different properties. One is talking about the debtor as a debtor by international loan, and another is talking about the debtor in relation to the Republic of Serbia who gave the guarantee and the guarantee has been activated and a new relationship based on the guarantee between the original debtor and the Republic. I have to say that it had to be separated in at least a few members in order for that difference to come to terms, because this is how it can create confusion. What really presents a problem concerns our public enterprises of republican importance, interests, which need to be in debt abroad and to take some, let's also be a more favourable credit under good conditions, long-term with a high starting period, where the condition is to get that credit to the state to guarantee. As it goes through the federal state, then the Republic of Serbia gives counter-guarantee, meaning the European Investment Bank's claim or other financial institutions abroad is provided. The question arises, if our public company dealing with, say, roads, the Road Directorate is not able to repay the credit, and the loan payment, as you have seen by previous members, is also going through the Ministry of Finance, or the Treasury with sub-accounts etc., and that I do not return the discussion, is really asking the question, the funds were needed for some development or maintenance, and the Republic Directorate is not able to service the credit, how the state to activate the repercussions given not to the abroad, it will do so, but to its new debtor, and this is the Republic Road Directorate. The government of the Republic of Serbia has full control over the company through both the board of directors and other authorities. The property that exists at the Directorate is the state property of the Republic of Serbia. Now a methodology is given, about, firstly, to collect funds from the account, because a blockage is being made for the amount of an activated guarantee. The theoretical question arises, what does that mean, unless the loan or the annuity has arrived, the Republic Road Directorate is blocked, and what will it continue to do? It is not the salaries of employees, contributions and other obligations, but the maintenance of roads and travel industry. It has some theoretical coverage in terms of claims, in terms of bonds, but if a property element is inserted into that story, then it is seen that it is really pointless, because practically the state becomes twice the owner, and it needs to be taken into account the law that was passed a few months ago, that based on these debts that the state did, and we then used the example of RTB Bor and proved senselessness when it comes to that law. This is all said for a simple reason to understand the seriousness that the state must have a clear principle policy as to how borrowing is possible and to what extent it is possible to carry out borrowing, but with a clear projection for each year; how long would these loans possibly last, with a view to a macroeconomic policy for a long period of time; to see if there are any social accumulations, funds to recover. Whether on the basis of service prices, and always this is related to the price of a service or some goods, and this is always reflected in the final consumer; what impact will be paid to the loan on the policy of the price when it comes to electricity, fuel or other obligations, or, say, the price of that fee paid for the use of the highway. I'm going back to that principle debate of ours again. Here they had to set clear criteria to which amount the state could be in debt, to what extent the amount of economic space covering the territory of the Republic of Serbia could be charged, at an annual level, at a long-term level, and to design a single policy, in order to avoid uncontrollable borrowing. We are in such a situation today that everyone who says – for development I need money, give some credit. Believe me, he is right, because sanctions, blockades, and bombings in 1999 did their part on the economic structure of the Republic of Serbia. It's a helmet in that development. We need to catch that step, something to speed up that gap, and this delay every year, so that, eventually, in 10-15 years, we can catch a connection with some new trends. Therefore, it is necessary to set clear limits and clear limits at the level of the entire Republic, not only in terms of what the state is doing in the exercise of power, not only in terms of public undertakings of the Republic's interest, not only in terms of para-state bodies in the area of compulsory insurance, not only in matters of local self-government, no matter how favourable these loans are from abroad, but in general our economy and our economy. We therefore need a quality law that would regulate borrowing, prescribe these restrictions, a law that would sublime two laws, that is, part of the existing Law on the Budgetary System and Maltese complete material and a complete area governed by the Law on Credit Relations with Foreign Affairs. The law on credit relations with abroad not only regulates payments to abroad on the basis of credit debt, but gives some conditions under which economic operators can borrow themselves abroad in the long term, and we have to have one projection. In the absence of this projection, today, as a measure of getting out of this crisis, we are listed by foreign direct investment or, as one of the predecessors said a few days ago after this speaker, a simple licking as the way to in the simplest way, the cheapest way to provide equipment and some other things that are also going on in the investment position. Since there's no strategy, then it's no wonder we have a law like this that contains everything and nothing, but nothing at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17306	Anyone else by this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Dunjic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Goran Dunjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17307	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 23 of the Public Debt Act and I propose that Article 23 be deleted. This law allows the Republic of Serbia to continue to be in debt, as well as territorial autonomy, local self-government, public enterprises, the Republic Health Insurance Institute. The Serbian Radical Party advocates that our total debt be precisely defined, so that Serbian citizens know who and under what conditions is in debt and where is this money, because if we continue to debt Serbia, debt slavery. That is why we have suggested that all members of this law be deleted, because such a law should not even be passed in the National Assembly, because it is not good for citizens or for the economy of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17308	Anyone else by this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Dunjic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17309	In light of the proposal for this law, in part – an analysis of the effects of the law, the Government, as a proposing, explained to us that by establishing conditions, methods and procedures for borrowing the Republic of Serbia, the interests of citizens and businesses are protected, as the uncontrollable borrowing of the Republic of Serbia is prevented, by the fact that the borrowing is carried out under the prescribed procedure, for the prescribed purposes and strictly keeping records of each borrowing. So the government as a proposer wrote this in an explanation, but that's why the text of the law isn't how it's regulated. I was talking about article 10. The bill, which refers to the borrowing process, and the same is the case with Article 24, where the guarantee procedure is discussed. So this is exactly how it is regulated to create conditions for uncontrollable borrowing, because neither Article 10th nor Article 24. The draft laws have not been accurately established, in fact they are not finished, they are unarranged. Again, it is the old and already repeated pain here, both these and the previous governments -- that your legal regulations are not decadent, they are not true, they are not accurate. I've said it many times, and I'm going to say it again, and now, whenever the legal norm isn't precise enough, there's a possibility of abuse in the application of that regulation. In this part of the reasoning on the reasons for the adoption of this law by emergency procedure, it is said that the reasons, according to Article 157. The rules of procedure stem from the fact that the conditions, way and procedure of borrowing of the Republic of Serbia, local authorities and organisations of compulsory social security, as well as the way in which guarantees of the Republic of Serbia should be issued as quickly as possible, thus avoiding adverse consequences for citizens and the economy, as they will prevent uncontrollable borrowing of the Republic of Serbia, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, debt under the prescribed conditions of protection and the interests of investors, thereby further stimulating and potential investors to invest in projects that will allow for the rapid development of the economy and society in general. So, from this explanation comes what I was saying today -- that it's obvious that so far the Republic of Serbia has been in debt uncontrollably, that it has been done as it comes to mind. Then it's logical that there have already been adverse consequences that the government is allegedly trying to prevent. If harmful consequences have occurred, then we need to know who's to blame, who's to blame, and if anyone's going to be responsible for this logical trail of events at all. A colleague, Dunjic, asked to be a member of 24. The bill's been erased, and I'm going to tell you why. It's about the guarantee procedure. Article 24(1) states: "At the Ministry's proposal, the government sets out a proposal for a guarantee basis." Paragraph 2 states: "The Ministry's representative has been present since the start of the procedure at all negotiations on the borrowing of local authorities and legal entities, when the guarantee of the Republic is sought." So he attends, but actively does not participate, at least that's what Article 24. I really believe that I'm a good lawyer and that I know how to interpret regulations. Paragraph 3 states: "The ministry is delivering a report to the Government on the negotiations under Article 2 with the draft loan agreement". Again, the point and again there's no next bet, just like in Article 10. So what happens next? If, then, Article 5 of Paragraphs 6 and 7 which empowers Minister Dinkic in this case, he may be in charge, to establish proposals for guarantees, counter-guarantee. We'll have after this point on the agenda a discussion of details, I mean, a dozen counter-guarantees that are already being given on some done business, but we'll talk about it when it's on the agenda. Either it's some Janjusevic, or some Kolesar, who's going to let Mladjan Dinkic do out of his ranks, do what they used to do before him? So, an inaccurate legal formulation, and the government in its explanation of why the amendment was not accepted, says, "Amendment is not accepted for the reason why it is necessary to regulate the guarantee procedure." The amendment is also submitted because it is necessary to regulate the guarantee procedure. That's what we're asking the government to propose. Of course, there are no proposing representatives here. Yeah, he's closing the deal, so he's gone. What kind of bank are we gonna see tonight to sell it? Of course, this may sound like a joke, but it's tragic and terrible that the finance minister is involved in the sale of banks, private banks. What's his interest in taking pictures on TV in such jobs? I guess it'll say "Kurir" these days. But it's terrible that we're discussing such important laws without having a representative of the Ministry. Indeed, if Mladjan Dinkic were here, I am convinced that he would accept the fact that this article 24, as well as Article 10, which we were talking about earlier this afternoon, must have another attitude in order to be applied. Because what it means is, he goes there from the Ministry, sits there, follows what someone else does, because he doesn't participate in the work, as it says in the law, and eventually delivers a report to the government from those negotiations, with a draft contract, leaves it there with the secretary, I don't know, and that's the end of the job, nothing further happens. If something happens, it's illegal. Because this law doesn't say how and what happens next. Since there is no government representative, since there is no Mladjan Dinkic, since he is selling out that last unsold bank in Serbia, then I ask you a dozen-fifths, as many of you as there are in this room (because thanks to the Rules of Procedure that you adopted, it doesn't have to be this many, it's enough to be the one who speaks here and one behind), to take care of these amendments and to really accept the amendment to Article 24, because it's completely pointless. Even if you pass the law, even if this government proposal survives, this Article 24, if any of the lawyers have to say I'm wrong, if they can find an explanation, tell me what they see here, and what's not written in this Article 24. So it's not this member, and neither is the idea, it's not acceptable. We Serbian radicals have said more than once – we will not vote for this law. We expect and hope that even our colleagues who are seriously considering their work and Serbia will not vote for this law either.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17310	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Of course, you weren't during the debate. You probably didn't know it was identified. The Government's representative is not, because he was present on committees when the amendments were discussed, which is possible, according to the new Rules of Procedure, for some amendments to be agreed upon after these committees, and I suppose in the way you thought. And, please, let's not insult the MPs. You see very well how many MPs are here and their business rights are to work in the meantime and affect the improvement of the law, which I suppose they are doing now. Here you go, Mr. Krassic. Sorry to keep you waiting.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17311	Article 24 really contains some shortcomings that make it impossible for this law and this law, if you adopt it, to apply it precisely and to know the rules. Today, when discussing the amendment to Article 5, I indicated that, by the logic of the matter, the Ministry's obligation, if the spirit of this bill follows, was to be included from the first to the last day in these negotiations. However, Article 24 lacks something. This missing thing should be sought in the provisions of Articles 5, 6 and 7 and in the provisions concerning the borrowing of autonomous province, local self-government and public enterprises. But as it stands, it's unsaid, because you don't know what to do next. Furthermore, the draft credit agreement, when we're looking for a loan, someone from here, as a rule, someone who gives credit, it's an international institution, it's possible to be a foreign business bank, although interest is completely different, so I don't believe it's worth it. But these are always some interstate arrangements between our country and some international financial organisation, because it's the only way to secure themselves on the market, if I may say, funds under more favourable conditions. Of course the Ministry must be involved from the beginning to the end. The contract is always made by the party that dictates the terms, that's the trustee who lends the loan. When you look at Article 24 and its legal and logical relationship with the previous and subsequent amendment, then you will see that there is one fundamental flaw, especially regarding the relationship between Articles 24 and 25. No matter how much someone defends the state community, especially those creators of that state community, they did it all somehow, but they forgot that the right question is whether the state community is a legal person, in the sense that it can be the bearer of rights and obligations and whether it has any property. Evidence that it rightly suspects its legal subjectivity, in terms of the legal person, not the international one, is a completely different matter, is the very fact that the state community does not have its own budget, has no original income, but its budget is contained in a special part – several items of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Even it is fleeting for what comes from Montenegro, no matter what percentage or amount it is. The question is then rightly raised as to what kind of guarantees the state community has, because they do not have their own weight, since it does not have any assets, it is financed by Member States and Member States, and when it is financed, are hardly able to provide for an item to serve certain obligations based on the guarantee given by the state community. That is why all foreign partners, when they approve of these loans to businesses in Serbia, this public, for these restructurings, etc., require the counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia as a condition. Just to make it simple, that's a real guarantee. That guarantee given by the state community is pro-forma. It is an ordinary paper that serves as a dossier proving that the conditions are met, and only proves the condition of an international legal entity of the territory on which the principal debtor is located - an enterprise. And, the real guarantee, which is gaining power, is the counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia, and a formal-legal foreign loan is provided in two ways, and essentially only a counter-guarantee. You see, when someone sits down and writes the Belgrade Agreement... In the last few years, we've heard so many pranks, twists, etc., this doesn't surprise me by Mladjan Dinkic, I have to tell you. I have no intention of attacking him, I've attacked him enough, I can even defend him. He is an amateur compared to Carla del Ponte and Natasa Kandic. There can be a younger one to brag about, he's a baby to them. What kind of masters are manipulation, hairstyles, they make and mount a movie and it works out how it suits them. But in time, it'll show what's what. Return this bill and do something that could be really acceptable, which would be based on some condition and contact little of these people who understand the banking system. It's no shame and shame to ask Borka Vukic what this law should look like. Now, right away, I knew how to react, and I spoke to the chair chair that the president of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group is sitting on, to warn the chair to sting him when this amendment comes, since he's not in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17312	If we don't do the chair, I have to warn you that time's up, please finish. Does any other parliamentary group want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17313	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's a speech on this bill that my colleagues spoke a lot of. The SRS parliamentary group submitted a series of amendments to the public debt law proposal. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 25. Proposal for a public debt law. I think this article 25 should be deleted. The essence of this bill was supposed to be that the state has a clear borrowing policy, and this law is not clearly precise, it does not solve this matter's problem of borrowing and making counterguarantees as a serious legislative proposal should be made to the National Assembly by the Government. The SRS parliamentary group will vote against this bill because it is contradictory in many members. My colleagues talked about the amendments. Members of the ruling coalition are present here in a very small room, this is what the Rules of Procedure will tell them, the president of the Assembly, but of course you will vote again in the voting day for a bill that will put Serbian citizens in a very difficult situation, because this law is not applicable in practice. In an explanation that we have given for the amendments of counterpart Krasic and all colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party who spoke with many arguments, but above all, we are telling the citizens of Serbia, because your MP majority is not interested in being involved in the debate on this bill. That's not what you're interested in, and you'll probably vote it out in the voting day. What is the essence of what counterpart Krasic said, let's say if we talk about public enterprises, which are directly in the jurisdiction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, what will the Roads Directorate, ZTP Belgrade, do, do, how will they repay loans? This bill had to be quite clear and precisely defined because it regulates one of the most important substances. But it doesn't matter to you. It is important for you to bring Serbia into a more difficult position. Serbian citizens live hard today and you are responsible for this, your parliamentary majority, because you are passing laws in this assembly that are, above all, not only inapplicable in practice, but directly harmful to the citizens of Serbia. Otherwise, we won't, and we have no reason to tell this speaker what would spread the story, because the law is not well-conceived. They repeat once again, when legislative proposals are proposed, has become a practice in this assembly by the government of the Republic of Serbia to be unclear, inaccurate. So it's just important that you pass the laws quantitatively. Then you will say – we have passed not how many dozens of laws in this assembly, and when you talk about these laws you should tell the citizens of Serbia how much these laws apply in practice. Most of your legal proposals are poorly drawn up and they are inaccurate, especially when we talk about the public debt bill, where there are no clear limits, where it is not regulated exactly how this area should be regulated, because it is very important for all citizens of Serbia; you have proposed a law that will go to the detriment of all of us Serbian citizens, and you are also representatives of these citizens. I hope that in the next election you will have the opportunity to explain to the citizens, but it will cost you dearly, because not some political group from your ruling coalition will cross that censorship that is needed to have MPs in this House. The Serbian Radical Party does everything behind this speaker for reasons to draw public attention to how you behave irresponsiblely, how you do, and what laws in this assembly you vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17314	Thank you, Mr. Gjorgevic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. I remind you, all MPs participated in the principle debate, she was, and now this is a debate in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17315	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 25 states: "The Republic gives counterguarantees to the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, under conditions and in the manner laid down by the law which prescribes the granting of counterguarantee. "The question arises, if we give counterguarantee to the state community, what are the revenues of the state community? Does she have her original income? No, since the then Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Zoran Djindjic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Federal Government, in charge of finance, Miroljub Labus and then the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Vojislav Kostunica, signed the Belgrade Agreement with Solana, you killed the state. The state community now really doesn't have any original income from which it could possibly return some loans. Those revenues belonging to the common state now belong to the Member States, so to the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro. The Republic of Serbia participates in one part of the financing of the state community, compared to 95, and perhaps 96 per cent of the total revenues of the state community. The Republic of Montenegro participates with about 4%. One logical question arises – if the Republic of Serbia participates so much in the financing of the state community, is it so much right to decide? There isn't. It can even be said that it is in a far more unfavourable position than it is, say, Montenegro. To be clear, the SRS is for the common state of two Serb peoples, but here the question is who and at what percentage will use these loans and who will return them and what percentage. If we give the state-owned counterguarantee community, where will the money be directed, if it's, say, infrastructure? Will Member States participate equally in the distribution of that money or will one party be in debt and the other party repay the debts? Who's going to be damaged? Probably that side that fills the budget more. Probably them, and I don't see the point of the public being in somebody's name in the first place. So, the republics themselves are in charge of their own infrastructure. We now have on the agenda certain counter-guarantees which are precisely infrastructure, for roads, for railways, for air traffic. So it is a common interest of both members, but each one is in charge of itself, in proportion to its possibilities. What's the government's debt going to be, that he might not be building new embassies around the world, diplomatically in debt? Let's look at the relationship between the ambassadors of the state community and how many of them are from Serbia and how many from other members. Is that only 5% of how much they participate in budget financing? Or, who is represented by the current president of the state union, is he representing the state union or is he representing his boss, Montenegrin Prime Minister Milo Djukanovic, whom he represents? What did you create when you made the Belgrade Agreement, what kind of Frankenstein you made of the state? You took away their sources of funding, you destroyed their entire infrastructure, their diplomacy. If there is separation between the two republics, whose embassies will be where the ambassador of Serbia from Montenegro found himself, I will say so, because I do not recognise Montenegrins as a people and who will be left with the embassy where the Serb from Serbia found himself? What will it look like, what will credits be used for which the Republic of Serbia will give counterguarantee? Think about this in the voting day, before you press the button under your bosses' directive to adopt such a legal proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17316	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Djordjevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Tihomir Djuric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17317	I will, on the occasion of this Article 27 and of this amendment, which refers to Chapter VI of the State Charter of Values, Article 26 – Broadcasting of State Charters of Values, Article 27 – Customers of State Charter of Values, Article 28 – Clearing and Salding, Article 29 – Payment of State Charter of Values, Article 30 – Prohibition of the use of privileged information, Article 31 – Prohibitation of measures, Article 32 – Monetary penalties. The entire area – state securities of value, could be regulated here probably with two to three members of the general nature that would refer to the application of the Charter of Values Act, associated with some application of the provisions of the laws governing traffic and trade in securities of value and probably in one article would be necessary to write which benefits are obtained by the buyer of state securities of value. If the buyer has guaranteed benefits, buying these securities of value, that makes sense. Beneficent can be by paying these securities of value some obligations, making certain discounts on some of the obligations they need to pay to the state. So far, this has been one common way of keeping the interest of banks and other free-funding operators and able to invest money, to buy paper from values that are so strong that it protects the value of that capital that they invested on one longer term and that they simply did not lose, to benefit more, than if they were to invest those funds and receive interest from the banks. This is something done and seen, it is inserted into Article 26. as a mediator of the NBS, so the agency is inserted, the central security deposit for securities against value and clearing, and then as information is protected, that those in the state service who work on these jobs, therefore to state securities of value, do not transfer unauthorized confidential information that could affect the selection of customers and that some are directed, some reject, and finally, these criminal provisions. As far as I can tell, this is all unnecessary. It could have been with three members that this matter was resolved in one objective way. However, if we consider the situation with us, not just for these past year, but for a longer period of time, then I am right to ask if the National Assembly can transfer that authority to decide on the issue of securities emissions from value, etc. The government of the Republic of Serbia, or we may still need to install some protection mechanisms to avoid uncontrollable emissions and uncontrollable borrowing. Those who do not like me will immediately replicate, so they will say – it is all defined by the Budget Law, where a member stands to the extent of the budget deficit, how it can be closed, if it is about overcoming and maintaining current liquidity, is it possible that borrowing is done by broadcasting short- and long-term securities of value. So basically you'd find an invitation to the Budget Law. However, the Budget Law is the law that best reflects the economic policy of the Government that proposed it, regardless of the fact that there were supremacy positions, aproprietions, figures, figures and figures, each figure, behind each division, behind each name of the application, there is some purpose, some purpose is decrypted. When I say he's hiding, I don't mean anything in a negative sense to say it, but I can make an identification. So, the identification of economic policy. We are witnessing two completely separate borrowing processes in order to maintain liquid liquidity and self-sufficient songs about a large budget surplus, and then you know yourself that something is wrong, imposing the need to think seriously about whether another mechanism should be installed, that there is no possible issue of securities of value, so experience teaches us, unless the National Assembly in some way verifies it, giving some prior consent. I'm just afraid with powers like this, no matter who comes to power this month or next year, we don't get into a situation to realize that public finances are one bottomless hole. So, it's one big ambience, and there's no real justification for why this hole and this ambience happened, since there's no sanctions, there's no bombing, there's no more pressure in terms of preventing payments to abroad, trade co-operation, etc. So, there wouldn't be any valid reason to argue as an excuse for a guff being made in public finances. That is why I believe that at this point, it may be necessary to resort to a measure where the National Assembly is performing and ongoing control of the business of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and, above all, of this minister, active, not to have something uncontrollable, because he is prone to such things. You give him the paper, he signs it in no time, and four banks are gone. He's not aware of the consequences that may arise based on his signature. Then we need to look for some defense mechanisms. The National Assembly, the people's representatives in it, must protect the people from the minister and have to find these fine mechanisms to protect the people from the minister, because the minister can't convince anyone, he's absolutely sure, he's convinced that all of this is the right thing to do, that it's the right thing to do. He doesn't see the consequences of his work. No, someone hints at the consequences, he finds a new topic right away, there's media, they're preparing that topic, they start with a story, and so on. Who's making that story? Those journalists, who spent between $75 and $150 a day in Budapest, educated in this job. He's got exactly who was on the payroll, how much he got, when. There are some who are now in power, who are also there, so who drank whiskey, where he drank whiskey, but it's not this topic. So, from the quick moves, and we had a similar problem with Milan Panic, so the radicals planted the paper, he caught it and signed it smoothly. When he saw what he signed, he said I didn't watch, I sign everything. It's similar to Dinkic, in no time he signed, in no time he says we're going to be in charge, broadcasting securities of value, closing down the entire financial sector, the entire banking sector, and then everything he signs can somehow pass. He squeezes a little bit more over here, he prepares here, then he comes back, and so on. In all these transactions, there must be a commission, a legal commission. These are financial transactions that were followed by the team. I haven't spoken before, but I don't know why you refer to brokerage houses as financial institutions here in this law. In this area, brokerage houses are not financial institutions. Now I kind of agree with these dice, I know which is the auditory house, I know which is the business bank, I know which is the insurance company, it's all known, with infallible accuracy you can guess the name of the company. The circle is closed, but not that the SDB closes the circle but the younger one closes the circle to keep everything under his control. It can defend what Dinkic wrote, not disputed, who calls, who makes the decision to issue securities against value, how payment is made, how payment is made on the basis of securities of value etc., but it is prescribed by other regulations. When the Securities Act was passed, when other regulations concerning the financial market were adopted, the basic intensity has been, since 1993, that in these matters the state would be an equal partner with all other economic operators and with all other entities participating in the market. Because of the "Knjiz Miloš" affair, the principle in favour of oligarchy, the economic oligarchy, was significantly breached for the first time. The second time that principle was broken when it came to the action of the Action Fund. That's what we talked about a few months ago. The first time an exception is made then it tends to become a rule and now it imposes itself on us as a rule. They probably thought that part of the argument that he said – with the help of American experts we did this and they supported it. I do not believe it would be supported by someone from Western Europe, who is an expert and who deals with this area, he would say – this is the unauthorized influence of the state on the financial market, including in this section regarding the broadcasting of securities of value. They're radicals and they're too skilled, so when they say you delete that article, don't criticize it lightly, but think about what they're proposing to delete each member. You see, for every amendment and every member between 10 and 15 minutes, we give you concrete reasons why there is a bad solution in that article. If, for all these reasons, you don't want to understand, say, we don't want to understand, we have 131 votes. We will understand you, but you must understand those of us who claim to replace you in power. We don't want to wait for the ambis.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17318	Anyone else want a word? The word has been given by the People's Messenger Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17319	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will not vote for this amendment, and I suggest that the other parliamentary groups not do so. I use the time available, and given the events we hear about every moment when we report from London, I believe that this high house and we MPs should condemn terrorist attacks in London. The attacks take place during Summit Group 8, and immediately after the announcement that London is hosting the Olympic Games. We condemn terrorism, barbarism and extremism. People like that won't make it. Killing innocent people and material destruction must be decisively prevented. We must say that we are horrified by attacks and that the state and the people of Serbia express solidarity with the people of England and the state authorities. This kind of attack affects the entire civilized democratic world. We must all resist terrorism with determination.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17320	Certainly every MP sympathises with all innocent victims and certainly this high house condemns every terrorist attack, especially Serbia that has felt the consequences of terrorism on various parts of its territory. And certainly this home, the way it's done, on Monday, when the session continues, will show their respect to the victims in London. We hope those victims will be few, God forbid there will be more of them. I thank you all for your professionalism for continuing to do our job. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17321	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 30. Proposal for a public debt law with a proposal to delete Article 30. When it comes to the public debt of the Republic of Serbia, today probably no one knows exactly how much it represents. The minister spoke of a certain amount, carried out some calculations that turned out to have crossed some of the European Union's countries. Minister Dinkic, however, has been denied official reports from recognised international economic institutes that continue to be at the bottom of the European scale, however, we are better than Albania, but if our experts continue to corrupt citizens and Serbia's economy for some time we will take over the bottom of the European scale. In Article 30. The proposal for a public debt law deals with persons with the so-called so-called "public debt law". privileged information. This article resembles a mild warning to all persons who are in a position to trade above all information that is important to other persons who manipulate state securities of value. If you do not foresee a concrete measure for the offenders of this member, employed by the issuer, then you have only wasted time writing this law and this member. You overlooked the sanctioning of participants on the primary market, then the participant agreeing with another participant in order to influence the price level of government securities. Why didn't you provide for sanctioning an employee of the issuer for the aforementioned items in Article 30? You didn't, because it's literally impossible to prove it. The promoter could also deal with the situation that someone on the side, e.g. from the Government, or maybe I'm the Director or the Chief of Staff is putting pressure on the persons employed by the issuer to give certain information to individuals who can be treated as privileged information. It is, however, very difficult to prove, so a member who is essentially not able to implement it is unnecessary, so the amendment requires his erasure. What is basic and in this case is that there must be a sense of responsibility with the people in this business and on whom the fate of the government, businesses and the state, as well as citizens depend. Here's the best and freshest example of how someone from the position has contributed to the fact that after a phone call, a responsible person finds himself at the Emergency Center due to severe stress. Remember all "Danone", "Knjiza Miloš" and telephone ultimatums to the President of the Committee on Papers of value to Mr Milk Stimec. Milko Stimac, after probably "mild" words from Serbian Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus, apparently his colleagues, collapsed as a candle to end up at the Clinical Centre. That was also said at the Assembly Privatisation Committee held immediately after the outbreak of the "Knjiza Miloša" affair. The media were gathering information about this scandal. Now the question is how many of them will resist the pressure from above as Milko Stimac. So much for those who talk over the day about Serbia in Europe, and in the evening threaten those who do their job by law. You have obviously left out of article 30 with intent as possible factors that can significantly affect the non-preservation of privileged information. Has anyone in the ministry considered how many broadcasters will appear in Serbia, given that local self-government and public enterprises at the level of the Republic of Serbia can be borrowed? What is the number of persons directly to be found under the unexplained, undefined supervision of the finance minister? The minister has to listen to who he's negotiating with about trading securities of value. In addition to acting like the one Ilija Cvorovic, the minister is known for improving the spying of neighbours, liquor sellers, newspaper sellers and the 500 dinar tariff muffins. This is going to be a little harder to prove. As far as public debt itself is concerned, this state should wonder where it will find the funds to repay debts, especially since 2007, when Serbia has to allocate huge amounts of money on behalf of interest loans, and with which industrial production we can expect an inflow of funds into the state register. With this certainly not, and it shows that we, in fact, don't have a business. On the other hand, there's a huge deficit. Something little is being exported except for the exports of Serbs to the UN tribunal, which is best at hand for the time being. Agricultural strategic products, of which the state received significant foreign exchange funds by export, are now counting their last days. So the rest is taken from citizens, small craftsmen, taxi drivers, kiosk owners, pensioners, farmers and others to settle those who generously after 5 October offered assistance to the Kobajagi democratic forces with a decent interest. Some are still unaware that the political lynch began on October 5th and died. The then heroes of beating into empty buckets and kicking the cardboard box today are out of a job and walking aimlessly; their fathers lost both jobs and no factories in the sherpa revolution, spending electricity on a spoon, and their study became an expensive investment. How much finance the finance minister has taken with its laws, measures, taxes, its fiscal cash register law has been adopted by Serbian citizens, shows all polls dealing with public opinion research. And if it has so much improved the standard of Serbian citizens, as it boasts, its party today would trust 40%, not 2% of Serbian citizens, more specifically, of the party's families. This – 40% refers to the citizens' trust in the Serbian Radical Party, which will take over power in Serbia after the next elections, whether they like it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17322	Please, Mr. Ilic, I am so shaken by your deep understanding of the problem that, under Article 98(2), I am giving a break until 17.00 hours to get an opinion, and after that, the People's MP Branislav Rankic has the same amendment. Thank you. [[After break – 17.05]] We're continuing our work. He has the word, according to an amendment to Article 30, which was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic, MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17324	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported on this amendment because Article 30, unfortunately, does not regulate what was a wish, and should refer to a ban on the use of privileged information. What's this about? The position of the 1st member reads: "No one can buy state charters out of value using privileged information". This is quite enough that this member no longer contains anything. This is the only thing it's supposed to contain, if it's supposed to contain. However, when it comes to the further development of Article 30, there are things that, practically, can lead to confusion and what is said in paragraph 1. According to point 2, "The ban on the use of privileged information applies particularly to persons who have privileged information, such as: 1) employees of the issuer; 2) all persons who have learned about privileged information in their jobs; 3) all persons who knew or could know that they had acquired privileged information. "Now I have to tell you something about this, who knew or could have known." For the first time in my life, I met with this formulation by reading the UN tribunal's indictment against Mr. Momcell Krajisnik. I will paraphrasise, but in one part of the indictment, it is said, for example: Two Muslims and/or Croats were killed in Zavidovici on June 18th, for which Mr Momcilo Krajisnik knew or could know. This is completely illogical, because it's very hard to prove if anyone could have known anything. I read that in the indictment, and I'm deeply convinced that this shouldn't stand in law. The law is not an indictment, the law is something else. In this last position, it is said: "The persons of Section 2 of this article, whose privileged information is available, must not communicate it to other persons, nor should they recommend them to other persons to trade in state securities of value. "In practice, in this second position only persons under regular number 2) undertake not to disclose information. What, then, are the persons listed under (1) and (3), if only the persons who have come to the privileged information are not allowed to communicate to anyone else? The persons referred to under (1) and (3) are wholly unnecessary in this law, as they will not be subject to any sanctions prescribed in criminal provisions. Now I will show you on one occasion the senselessness of this formulation – what someone knew or could know about. Let's just say, I could have been a pilot. Most people know I'm not. If the JAT pilots strike tomorrow, say, someone's gonna call me to account. I tell them that I have nothing to do with it, that I'm not a pilot, and whoever called me to account says you didn't, but you could have been. Is it my fault that I was able to enroll in a school that would educate me to become a pilot? Of course not. I'm telling you this because this was in one indictment and it should never be defined in this way by the matter that is in any law. Therefore, this article should be deleted, for the simple reason that it is burdened with unnecessary things and which will lead to great confusion by interpreting these persons under 1), 2) and (3), when Article 31 is subsequently applied. Look and you'll see there the minister decides who he'll ban in the next period, say, three years of trading securities of value. He can do it on the basis of someone telling him he gave him information, and he wouldn't give it, or the minister would assume that someone could have known the information, and he didn't know it. He has the authority to prescribe to whom the ban will be imposed. That's bad. This article needs to be deleted. He shouldn't have been burdened. If this law were simple, perhaps the Serbian Radical Party would not have submitted such amendments to it. Only attitude 1: "No one can buy state records out of value by using privileged information", especially because you have prescribed what privileged information is under article 2 of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17325	Anyone else by this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Jankovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Branislav Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17326	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on article 141. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have tabled an amendment to Article 31. A bill on public debt, in which I request that the member be deleted. We must say that the Serbian Parliament is in office of the Serbian government, and for this reason it is likely that the meetings are scheduled three days before the maintenance, so that the MPs will be prevented from submitting amendments and that, thanks to the short time, they will be able to pass such a bad bill. In order to be able to see what the Serbian Radical Party is in the way of the proposed member, I will have to read Article 31's proposal, which is a repressive character: "A participant on the primary market can be denied from participating in the purchase of government securities on the primary market. The participant may be granted a ban on the purchase of state charters of value, for a period of one to three years, if: 1) does not comply with this law and other acts governing emissions and the primary sale of state securities of value; 2) does not comply with the obligation on the basis of the submitted offer of state securities of value; 3) is agreed with other participants, in order to influence the price of State securities of value; 4) buys government securities of value on the basis of privileged information". The further text in paragraph 3 reads: "The finance minister is making a solution to ban participation in the purchase of government securities from the primary market". Finally, an explanation that says: "The solution of the 3rd article is final and an administrative dispute can be waged against it. The decision referred to in Article 4 shall be published in ′ to the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia. "It is quite clear that we are most disturbed by the position behind point 4), which says that the finance minister is making a solution to the ban on the purchase of state charters of value on the primary market, because we believe that the discretionary right given to the minister, and we know which minister, too much authority, is subject to various abuses and malfeasances, which is enough reason for us to seek to delete the said member. As for the individual articles in the daily press, as well as the discussion on the assembly speaker, where you complain that radicals submit amendments to all members of all draft laws wishing to use full time to explain each individual, the question is: is this in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, they may be violating your newly agreed restrictive Rules of Procedure? The second question: do you think that Serbian citizens voted for the SRS with the desire to sit alone in the Serbian Parliament, receive good salaries and do nothing or to show the domestic public that the proposed legal proposals are bad, because the fact is that the government is more important than the quality of the proposed laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17327	All uninformed I remind you that the law we are considering entered into the assembly procedure on April 8, 2005. In contrast, MPs gave different amendments before the agenda was scheduled. All amendments have been adopted, including those, according to the Rules of Procedure, by committee, and those not adopted today are being considered. Of course, using the right of business, they are explained by those who have proposed them, members of their parliamentary group. I don't think there should be any dilemma about it. Anyone else by this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Srjo Komazec submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has the People's Messenger Lazar Cavic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17328	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the 33rd Amendment was filed by my colleague Srjo Komazec. He suggests that article 33 be deleted. The borrowing of local self-government and our state is a great evil that will lead us into a slave position, if the IMF wants to grant us loans and thus put a noose around our necks, which means that public enterprises, local self-government companies can only be in debt if they are guaranteed by the Republic of Serbia. All these loans are evil, without real production, employment in public enterprises and local self-government companies. We have so far been undermining these debts and guarantees by destroying a regime, and as it goes on, it's a painful question for both us and the generations to come. Today, we don't know how much we owe, like any citizen; if they knew that, the push for these loans would probably be weaker. We're represented there by some mandatory experts, who are here today, and tomorrow, who knows where, we watched that movie in the surrounding countries. Just remember that American expert Saks, who black-headed us with his formulas. Today, the National Bank of Serbia is run by a man who has no obligation to Serbia. He doesn't even want to give citizens a banal answer to their questions – where did you get that kind of money, sir? You know for a fact that today the peasant is making ends meet, and Mr. Governor of the National Bank is spreading into a villa worth a million and a half euros. How can the Ministry obtain such an opinion that, for example, the municipality wants a large loan and is in line with undeveloped, or devastated environments? The municipality I come from is one of the most underdeveloped municipalities in Vojvodina. The question is, will he even be able to get a loan for some projects he wants to do? Who can guarantee the IMF, and neither can the Ministry, unless the funds are provided in that fund. We can't live in any area without credit. Who's going to come back and when? Is that gonna be 10 or 15 years? That's where the whole problem lies. Imagine Europe, or the IMF, for 15 years. It's really hard to imagine. I hope the MPs in the voting day will accept this amendment submitted by Srjo Komazec.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17329	Thank you, Mr. Cavic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word is made by MP Branislav Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17330	Ladies and gentlemen, let me just say that a member of the 33rd is a kind of proof that the SRS MP group is right when he claims that you are in a hurry to propose wrong bill proposals. In order to know what it is, I have to read Article 33: "The decision on the borrowing of local authorities is made by the competent authority of the local authorities, according to the ministry's previous opinion. The opinion of the 1st member's position... "The ministry is obliged to deliver and give an opinion. "If the ministry does not respond to an opinion request within the time limit set in Article 2, the opinion will be deemed to have been given." It is clear that such inaccuracies are not random. What that means is that an opinion is given, if we know that the Ministry's opinion can be positive or negative, so we from the SRS parliamentary group are justly seeking to delete this member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17331	Thank you, Mr. Jankovic. You're in favour of a precise definition. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 34 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17332	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 34. The draft public debt law, by proposing that this article be deleted. As a lawyer, I will still read that article 34, or quote, to convince you that this is wrong. The first stance says "local authorities can be in debt in the country and abroad, i.e. on the domestic and foreign markets". Item two: "Local authorities may be in debt in domestic and foreign currency, in accordance with this law". Item three: "Local authorities can't give guarantees." Finally, attitude four, probably the proponent himself, doesn't know what he was going to say with that attitude, says, "Option of local authorities to finance current liquidity deficits". It's completely vague and unspeakable. So the legal norm, as an essential part of every law and every member, must be clear and precise. This one, the lawyers well know, is vague, imprecise and unspeakable. The Serbian Radical Party advocates that local authorities should not and should not be in charge, nor make any decision on borrowing, but rather the ministry's jurisdiction and can only work with the ministry's approval to protect both the state and the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17333	Thank you, Mr. Koprivica. Is anyone else answering the same amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 35th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17334	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to Article 35. I have submitted an amendment to the bill that states that this member should be deleted for a number of reasons. Otherwise, the member refers to local self-government, where it says local authorities can be in charge of financing current liquidity deficits, which arises as a result of imbalances in public income movements and public expenditures. It is known that the Serbian Radical Party's position is not to go to those borrowings, especially when it comes to the deficit. What is even more characteristic of this bill, which states that the key importance of the solution proposed by this law is also to ensure a orderly and efficient settlement of public expenditures in cases where the public revenues achieved do not correspond to the determined level of planned public revenues, which is achieved by providing funding for current liquidity deficits, i.e. budget deficits. This is too much to explain, if we have all the views of the Ministry of Finance, which boasts that this year with the budget surplus, which means that they are forecasting some budget deficit in the next period, and suggests that this budget deficit of 45 billion in the following year will be less than 20 billion, so there is no need for this item to be introduced into this bill. "In addition to the above, this law provides for the possibility of borrowing to provide funding for refinancing and when restrictions are reached to finance current liquidity deficits and budget deficits," etc., etc. Finally, it says, too, little predicts the possibility of borrowing the Republic of Serbia to provide funds for new investment projects. This would only be justified if the state were to be in debt in the event that the development of the economy should be accelerated and further economic development of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, Article 35 of the proposed law also states that the total amount of this debt must be recovered before the end of the financial year. I don't see any reason for the emergency procedure of this bill, since we've already entered the seventh month. It means that this law can only take effect in this month, and since it is a restriction that local self-government can only be owed to 3% of the budget in the previous year, it represents that in these next few months it can be owed from only 0.25% to possibly 1% of the budget, which will not significantly affect local self-government, if we know that this is a negligible little figure. Therefore, this is another reason to accept this amendment. Finally, the argument is that the amendment is not accepted for reasons why local authorities should also be required to be in charge of current liquidity deficits up to a certain amount. So this solution stimulates local self-government to consciously go into the budget deficit, and that shouldn't stand in the bill of law. I hope that in the day of the vote, the Assembly will accept this amendment and that this unsuspecting solution and the unsuspecting proposal of this member will be deleted from the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17335	Thank you, Mr. Kragovic. Anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17336	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like a few moments of your attention to focus on this amendment that I have tabled on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group. Here's what this is about. You have here a prescribed procedure and conditions under which a republican budget can be owed. These several forms of borrowing have been said, and among other things, debt to finance current liquidity deficits. Then you have budget deficit financing, investment-based financing, i.e. capital projects, guarantees, counter-guarantees, etc. Local congregations have some of these rights, and some do not at all have, as is said, in article 34 that local authorities cannot issue guarantees. But according to article 35, local authorities can be in charge of funding current liquidity deficits up to three percent of the budget achieved in the previous year. For example, I know that the municipal municipality made about 400 million dinars of income last year. This means that it could be in charge of funding the current liquidity deficits three percent, so about 12 million dinars. I proposed this amendment to allow local authorities the type of borrowing up to 10 per cent, as the republican authorities were empowered to charge up to five per cent of last year's budget on this basis. In a conversation with Minister Dinkic, we came to the conclusion that it is not right to be three percent, but that the 10% rate is too high, and we agreed to submit an appropriate amendment to this topic and to allow local authorities to borrow from the financing of current liquidity up to five percent of the budget reached in the previous year. Such an amendment came from the Committee on Finance, so I think that this amendment should be accepted by the Assembly, and in that case, on behalf of the SPS, I would withdraw this amendment that I have submitted to Article 35. Just a few more sentences about why I think it's important that this amendment of the Finance Committee be accepted. You have such a situation that the budgets of the local parliaments are not evenly filled every month during the year, although we view the budget as a whole and every month we view, at least theoretically, as one twelve of the planned budgets that will take place in that year. But you have these so-called. the seasonal oscillation in the revenues of municipal budgets, and therefore you also have an imbalance in the achievement of monthly incomes over one year. This often leads to problems that the local assembly is inequitable and that it cannot finance appropriate projects, such as infrastructure. You have a period of March-October, when the construction season is at its peak and when all local congregations are in need of funding, say, road construction, road repair, to finance some other infrastructure, such as plumbing, sewerage, etc., and that they do not have adequate inflows in the budget. Often, they cannot do what they have imagined, although, at the level of the entire year, they are seen to have provided funds to cover such expenditures from the budget. I thought it would be good to allow local congregations to finance appropriate projects and repay the debt by the end of the current year, as provided for in this law, based on current liquidity deficits. Take, for example, the beginning of the tourist season; if you have a municipality that is treated as a tourist area, it also has a distinct need to, say, fix the roads in the area at least, and the municipalities, which are in its jurisdiction, so that tourists can come to those destinations and use their vacations. But if the roads are dug up, the tourists won't come. If the local assembly says – yes, we would do so, but we do not have the appropriate financial resources at this time in the account so that we can finance it, if we have a clear plan that we will achieve planned revenues in the next few months, then it is reasonable to allow the local assembly to decide on a short-term task, to finance that current liquidity deficit and to return those funds to October, November and December, when it does not have that kind of expenditure, but it will have the corresponding revenues in the budget. So I think that the measure of 5 percent is about what most municipalities would fit, because that would mean 20 million Loznica, and for some more developed municipality maybe 50, and for the most developed maybe 100 and 150 million borrowing opportunities at one point, with a return, say, 60 days, 90 or possibly 180 days from the moment that credit is withdrawn until the corresponding project is financed. Some papers simply cannot work in January and February of the month, you can't do it in November and December, because the weather just doesn't allow it, and the programmes made by local communities together with their own public enterprises are present, covered by budget revenues, but we have this disturbed dynamic of the inflow of funds into municipal budgets and simply the inability to do some things on time. When that happens, then we, as local authorities, are normally forced to postpone these projects for the next year, and then cause some other negative consequences, and I thought it would be good to accept that amendment. Most of all, I wish it were 10%, but the assessment was that it would be at increased risk for local congregations to be in debt in a way that is not at this point suitable for some of their economic real opportunities. That's why I think five percent is about the measure that holds water at the moment and we need to accept that amendment to the Finance Committee. Therefore, I am withdrawing the amendment of the SPS parliamentary group to Article 35, with the request that MPs accept the amendment of the Finance Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17337	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. Of course, since we now have this European Rules of Procedure, it is possible that there is work of Members just as you said the amendment would be accepted. You are about to hear, I will inform you: the work of all Members of the Finance Committee has now become an integral part of the bill, in the way you have formulated, but we will only come to that. National MP Nenad Bogdanovic submitted to the 35th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Finance submitted to Article 35 of the amendment, following a principled debate. The proposing representative accepted this amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Blagoja Krajinovic submitted to the 36th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17338	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, under this amendment very briefly, but something very important, about local self-government. You know that the SRS parliamentary group, or Mr Krajinovic, the MP, submitted an amendment on behalf of the parliamentary group and requested that this member be deleted. Article 36 says "Local authorities cannot borrow in the long term, except in the borrowing work for financing or refinance capital investment expenditures", concerns the needs of local self-government, so, roads, waterways, sewerage, lighting, etc., "predicted in the budget of local authorities. "The amount of the fixed long-term debt for capital investment expenditure under Article 1 cannot exceed 50% of the total current revenues of the local authorities' budget in the previous year. "The local self-governments that have full capacity of local authorities, therefore, municipalities across Serbia, may be able to fit into this member of the law, but we have another kind of local self-government, above all I mean local self-government in Belgrade – 17 municipalities, local self-government in Nis – five municipalities, local self-government in Kragujevac, where units of local self-government, municipalities, are literally reduced to the level of the local community. The complete decision-making structure and authorities are in Belgrade. You know, local self-government with full capacity will really use these funds throughout the territory of local self-government, and even where they didn't get the councilors, because they're going to try to take over these settlements where the citizens voted for others. Haranga is being held in Belgrade, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, according to municipalities that are not under the yellow umbrella. A typical example is the municipality of Zemun, where when real budget costs are taken away, there are five million dinars left for investment, and investments from the city level are very difficult to reach in these municipalities. You will hardly be able to force Bogdanovic to pave two or three blocks in that municipality. A typical example of what I'm talking about is the situation in the county of Grock, ladies and gentlemen. So, they dug up the entire Kaludieri, they were supposed to resuscitate the streets, pave the streets, carry out the lighting, I think they needed some water and sewers, and your entire Kaludier is now in holes and noodles. The moment they lost power, the investor, that is, the contractor, was withdrawn and the citizens of Kaludjerica were literally in the jungle from the canals and dug-up panels that were sidewalks, etc. I think that this assembly will have to pass the law on cities, or the law on Belgrade, very quickly, where we will have to classify that artificially concentrated government at the city level a little bit and bring it down to local self-government, to local decision-making levels, beyond this. For this reason, I believe that, regardless of what all citizens mate, what if all Belgrade is in debt, all citizens of Belgrade, all two and a half million Belgrade residents will have to return, and the money will go to certain municipalities, where the yellow umbrella is above, where the yellow coalition or code yellow is, however.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17339	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Rajko Baralić, as amended to Article 36.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17340	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and the amendment that Mr. Jovan Todorovic spoke about and the amendment that Mr. Markovic was talking about now have a lot to do with one topic. I have carefully studied all the political programmes, listened to the campaign, and I participate in all the campaigns, and there is no political party that has no decentralisation in its programme as one of the main pillars and the intention of its political action. I have to say that Cardell's organization of state was a dream of what we have today in terms of funds, budgeting, spending, local self-government's authority, above all, and that's not a recommendation for any government that calls itself democratic. Local self-government, especially when it comes to small territories, small municipalities, are reduced to the level of local communities. With what fear and reason does the central financial authority in the state not give the local self-government a chance to charge on the basis of its budget income, which is planned on the basis of parameters that are derived from the measure of economic, financial, budgetary policy, in one way or another? It is a show of mistrust with citizens, it is the adoption of local self-government in a mere form and it is the centralisation of authorities that are totally contrary to the political programmes of all the political parties participating in the elections. I refer Serbian citizens to this amendment and this argument to put their finger on the head and seriously think about when they give confidence to the parties in the elections, because it is unsustainable more, and there is a Budget System Act, there is a budget policy, what we are talking about here, everything is channeling and it is impossible to endure anymore. Small municipalities are unable to do anything more serious unless they have more significant support. I went through Cer-Tekarysh today. It's a shame for this country what it looks like. And these are small and poor municipalities, whose budget is below 80 million or 100 million dinars per year. When you don't even give them the right to owe more than a level to buy 50 lynx paper in a month, they really don't represent anything. So I really ask anyone who seriously thinks it does good to the citizens that when they compose the government, when they compose the budget, when they pass laws concerning this area very precisely to citizens, or their committees, and that is the will of citizens who are embodied in committees in local congregations, why someone doesn't trust them, why it is necessary for the Ministry of Finance or the Government or anyone else to make a cap to one local congregation in that sense. Everyone should be in debt as much as they think they can pay back, and if they can't pay back, they risk not getting the trust of the local population they choose next time. This way you have one impossible situation that the republican central government is practically a supervisor to local self-government when it comes exclusively to local problems, local budgets and local funds. I appreciate the opportunity to say this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17341	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Krstin submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17342	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 37 of the Public Debt Act. Article 37 reads - local authorities may, in order to reduce the cost of borrowing and, in accordance with the corresponding level of risk, place funds, i.e. to carry out other cash transactions, following regular implementation of the local government budget, at an interest rate not lower than the average rate of the National Bank. Gentlemen, available cash – I ask which and which of what, or does that mean that you will finance members or supporters of your political associates under available cash? Then: "Local authorities can be in debt by taking credit or broadcasting securities of value, provided that these securities of value can be purchased exclusively by the Republic of Serbia and the financial institutions. "What financial institutions? This text I read would be more complete if it reads like this – local authorities can be in debt by taking credit or broadcasting securities of value, provided that these securities of value can be purchased exclusively by the Republic of Serbia and Mladjan Dinkic. I think it's a more complete formulation of this passage of the law. Then, in the first indent, the local government stands, in order to reduce the cost of borrowing, etc. Why in charge, and why the cost of borrowing? Why not cut local self-government costs and cut local self-government spending? With this proposal, you do not want to take over hot potatoes, streamlining local self-government, and this would only be achieved by firing employees in local self-government. Do you think maybe the Serbian Radical Party would do that when it comes to power? That's what you're wrong about. In the second indent of Article 37, it is said – local authorities may be obliged to borrow credit or issue securities of value, and in accordance with the corresponding degree of risk. Who's estimating that risk? State agency, private agency or some audit house? This is where one of Pandora's boxes is created regarding who's going to be the risk appraiser. Then, in Article 37, in the first indent, you say -- at an interest rate that is not lower than the econtaneous rate of the National Bank of Serbia. Normally, you attribute to us radicals that by coming to power we will lead the command and administrative management of the economy. I'm interested in who's prescribing an interest rate that would be lower than the escort rate of the National Bank of Serbia? You're alleging, but you just don't say who. Gentlemen, the interest is determined on the market, both for loans and for charters of values emanating from local self-government. Your proposal creates an opportunity, for example, to make the econtaneous rate 10% and the market rate 20%. You place the funds at 10.01, you formally meet the condition, and the difference of 9.99% in your pocket; this is how you develop corruption of local self-government. In the first indent of Article 37, paragraph 2 is replaced by You say the bill with public debt – local authorities can be in debt by taking credit or broadcasting securities of value. It's a way of reducing borrowing costs. If the credit is 10% in the bank and the local government bond issue rate is 5%, there are areas to reduce the cost of debt. However, you are here saying that the interest rate should not be lower than the Econt rate of the National Bank of Serbia, and on the other hand, the lending of local self-government is possible to the level of deposits. Since this law introduces a newspaper and requires that article 37 be deleted, and as most of you will surely vote this Article 37, I think that instead of six months of data being delivered to the Ministry, you should at least put it to be three months. That way you have more control over local self-government. However, as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, I have to say, and I don't see why neither the Ministry of Agriculture nor the Ministry of Finance says for the sake of the public what is the debt, the public debt to the Serbian Stock Reserve. Public debt to Serbia's Stock Reserve is 18 billion dinars. The 18 billion dinar deficit is made up of grain processing houses, individual agricultural enterprises and individual cooperatives that have been brought into the situation in which they are. It is important to know, gentlemen, that the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture is 22 billion dinars. Here's what the state could do, if there was one normal paper between the judiciary, the prosecution, the prosecutors, if these people just tried to get that money back, we'd have 18 billion dinar surpluses in the budget. When we asked the Committee on Agriculture to deliver to us what the factors were and how many were punished and whether he was punished, we received data where only one was punished for two years, and conditionally for 6 months. One grain house is in the den according to the 99 million Stock Reserve, one private house of two million. I'm speaking from my field. One private, expressed not in cash, but in kilograms, three million and a few kilos of wheat. There it was necessary to put into this law, to seek out a law that would make the debt of the Stock Reserve a public debt, to return it to the State, to return to the Ministry of Agriculture, to return to agriculture to stand down, for, gentlemen, we have welcomed the harvest of barley without diesel. We welcome the wheat harvest again without the diesel. Gentlemen's response to the Committee on Agriculture, from the director of Naftagas Transport, from the director of Southpetrol, was that the oil market would normalise at the end of the season. Gentlemen, it's three weeks in wheat harvest. What we're talking about here now -- public debt, talking about local self-government, we're not talking about how to get back to the state of 18 billion that someone illegally kidnapped this country. Since it was not introduced into this law, Serbian Radical Party MPs are asking for this law to be returned, to do so in quality and then to start talking about the law as we should. I hope that in the voting day you will take care of the facts I just said and that you will not vote for Article 37.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17343	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bora Kutic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. There's a word from MP Bora Kutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17344	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 38. Proposal for a public debt law with a proposal to delete that member. What were the reasons and motives why I submitted that amendment? I think that borrowing municipalities, cities and the city of Belgrade, as well as providing guarantees and counter-guarantees, is a special bond relationship, with special rights and obligations of creditors, embossors and debtors. I don't think that this area is regulated by the Law on Liabilities and that such a member in this law is necessary. I will read only the position of the 2nd member of the 38nd who says – the Republic is exercising the right to recover funds under Article 1 of this article by suspending the rights of municipalities, cities, or the city of Belgrade in taxes imposed on them by the Republic, i.e. by transfers established by special law, up to the level of the amount, etc. I think a big problem would be created if the transfer was suspended by the Republic towards the municipalities. Otherwise, I come from the municipality of Srbobran, which is extremely poor. We have at the employment office every third citizen, able to work; every tenth is working. If this situation were to occur, we would endanger the very existence and existence of these municipalities. The proposer, in his explanation, says that he has protected the interests of the Republic with this article, and I believe that it is an integral part of that republic and of the municipalities and that the Government must take care of both the Republic and local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17345	Thank you. Anyone else by the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Lalic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from the People's Messenger Nikola Lalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17346	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on Article 39, I have submitted an amendment to delete it for the reason that I consider it to have grounds for eradicating it, and the more reason is that this proposal has been discussed on the Legislative Committee and we have been given the knowledge that it is legally possible. This amendment regulates the obligations and responsibilities of the social security organisation, which regulates only the participation of the organisation in public debt. In order to make it more clear why I have submitted an amendment to delete this member, I will read only the position of the 3rd member, which says that the borrowing is controlled, or controlled by the Government, and determines the criteria. The question is what are the criteria that the government needs to set for borrowing. Also, attitude 7 also controls, or government controls, and gives the organisation a debt. The amount to be paid when borrowing shall in some way be limited by having to be returned within a specified period. Also, attitude 9 says it can be owed 20% of the financial plan, which is illogical, especially when it comes to borrowing medicines. I believe that there are budget reserves at this point, and when it comes to medicines, this organization can also be in debt in other ways. Given all that I have said, I believe that in the day of voting you will have an understanding of this amendment and that you will accept and vote for this amendment that I have tabled before the Serbian Radical Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17347	Thank you, Mr. Lalichu. Anyone else by this amendment? No, I don't. ) The National MP Srboljub Marinkovic submitted to the 40th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word is made by the MP Srboljub Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17348	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as member of the 40th Law on Public Debt, I have submitted an amendment that reads - is deleted. It is deleted because the public debt law is currently unacceptable because the law on local self-government and property at the level of municipalities and at the level of the state has not been adopted and small municipalities that do not own property are unable to repay debts owed in front of the state. At this point, the state would be guaranteed them, and the municipalities couldn't repay that debt, so control is impossible now and this law cannot be accepted as it is. It may be in later periods and power, but the SRS isn't about accepting a law like this right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17349	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The amendment is to be deleted. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17350	I was so surprised that the government and the Committee didn't accept this amendment, I just thought they'd accept it. But okay, let's move on. Here is another member of the full nebulose and full reason for this legal project to be put out of effect, to withdraw and to propose a little better project in another session. According to Article 40, the control of the implementation of the technical and financial provisions of the loan contract for which the Republic has granted its guarantee is carried out by the project management unit (hereinafter: JUP) which is educated by the credit user. JUP delivers every six months to the Ministry and the competent ministry – which I did not quite understand, which is that ministry that is not competent – a report on the control of the 1st member's position. The Minister of Finance shall determine the format and content of the control report referred to in Article 2. Let me explain: as a credit user, I get guarantees from the Republic of Serbia, use credit, control of my use of credit is carried out by the project management unit, and in the following text, JUP, which is educated by the credit user, in the case of the legal person used by the credit. The goat keeps the cabbage. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is surprising that Minister Dinkic, wherever a dollar appears, he is here to put his paw under control, is currently leaving someone else to control the use of the loan. He further says, every six months, the JUP will submit a report to the ministry and the competent ministry (so it will have to be in two copies and will have to explain which ministry is not responsible) the control report. If the project management unit is mine, and I think of me as a legal person, on local self-government, etc., on those users who have the right to use it, then they will believe that JUP will give an accurate report every six months, etc., and especially as the finance minister is closer to sorting out the form and content of the control report of Article 2. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've been bored for two days with something that's absolutely inapplicable, with something that the moment you adopt it, and I see it, there are 20 of us now, but there will be 126 of you for sure when this is voted on, at the moment Minister Dinkic will be able to train this law nicely and put it on the window, because he will never be able to be applicable. I therefore propose that the amendment in the voting day be adopted and that this member, like all previous and all future members, be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17351	Thank you, Mr. Markovic, for a detailed explanation. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17352	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, until an hour ago I was convinced that we were working under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but President Predrag Markovic said we were working on some European rules of procedure. I also have the impression, while we were working on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that the work of this Parliament was much more serious and that, in that case, at this point in the hall, at least 84 MPs would be. When it comes to the amendment to Article 42, i.e. all amendments relating to the H Chapter of the Law called – Public Debt Administration, one amendment could be put in place at the beginning and written – Dinkic's administration, because from what is stated in Articles 42, 43, 44, 45 and 46, it is obvious that the absolute authority and authority of Mladjan Dinkic will have to be established, but I just don't understand why he had to predict that such administration was formed. In article 42, he said, "A public debt administration is being established, as a government body within the Ministry... "and then, "In order to carry out the tasks of the administration, organisational parts are educated." This is completely unnecessary. As part of the Ministry, the administration, em, is formed as part of the management of organisational parts. There is no other explanation for such a proposal, but what we have been saying here for several days – that there is another group of "deserved" citizens who should be home so well and let's now form another administration and more organisational units, and then there go directors, chiefs, executives. In position 3, the organisation's units are formed by an act by the finance minister, on a proposal from the director of the administration. First the finance minister proposes the director of the administration, then the director of the administration proposes to him the managers of the organisational units. If it wasn't sad, it'd be funny. I will continue to talk about these few members who speak about the public debt administration, as I said - Dinkic's administration. The next article in 43 says the management is run by the director, and the director of the administration is appointed by the government, imagine, on a proposal from the finance minister. Can something happen in the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia without being under the hands of the finance minister? Article 44 lists the responsibilities of this administration, 12 counts, not to read everything. I hope at least the MPs sitting here read it. Believe me, there's no specific business in these 12 dots. Here, just some to read: monitoring borrowing negotiations, dealings relating to securities of value, preparing a public debt management strategy, managing a financial information system. So obviously there's no specific job, a specific task that, possibly, this administration and these organisational units would be in charge, so let's say that there's a logic to be formed. Article 45 states that the administration can provide other financial services in accordance with the contract, which is charged by the compensation representing the revenue of the Republic's budget. "The amount of compensation for performing the services referred to in Article 1 determines the Government on a proposal," guess whose "minister of finance". He is an interesting member of the 46th chapter, which says: "The funds for the work of the administration are provided in the Republic's budget". How much money, what resources, no one knows. It is common when a law is proposed to the National Assembly, in this section on the assessment of the amount of funding needed to implement the law, says how much funding is needed to implement the law. We saw yesterday, when it came to that export promotion agency, that 25m euros are expected to be allocated, and the implementation of this public debt law says -- funds will need to be provided in the Republic's budget before the public debt administration begins. What means, how much money? Neither did the minister tell us when he explained the bill, nor could anyone here conclude what the funds were, nor when these funds would be provided. Is that why the budget rebalance is being prepared, we'll see, we'll ask the minister when he talks about it. Until the end there is still this chapter that speaks of criminal provisions, transitional and final provisions. Since we Serbian Radical Party MPs have been trying all day to convince the parliamentary majority that this bill on public debt doesn't make any sense, that this is one general, unaccounted for, unnecessarily, unnecessary law, that we will find out in the voting day, and all of our amendments to this law are such that we propose that individual members be deleted, we have concluded that there is no need to explain each of these amendments anymore. So Serbian Radical Party MPs will not appear until the end of this debate in particular under the following amendments. I am taking the opportunity to call once again on fellow members of the assembly majority to vote in the day, voting for amendments to the Serbian Radical Party MPs, not to accept the proposal by Mladjan Dinkic, the government of the Republic of Serbia for this law, which is just another imposition on Serbian citizens, another burden, who knows how many duties, who knows how many loans. This administration, which we don't even know who's going to do it or how much it's going to cost, in fact, who knows how much it's going to cost the citizens of Serbia. So, I urge you to vote for our amendments in the voting day and not vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-07-0.u17353	Anyone else by this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragoslav Milkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Milosevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Mitrovica. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Penezic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 50 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 51 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Bogdanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Lazar Cavic submitted to the 54th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular and since there is no minister present to give the final word, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 18th item of the agenda on Monday at 10.00 hours. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Before we begin our work, I remind you: four days ago innocent people were killed in London; yesterday in Skelani, today in Srebrenica, tomorrow in Bratunac marks the mention, also of innocent victims. I'd like to pay our respects to all the victims for a minute of silence. Thank you. Praise them. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 91 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of MP Goran Knezevic. We are moving to the 18th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a MARK CONTRAGATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE BY THE DEBT OF JP "ELECTROPREVRED OF SERBIA" OF THE GERMAN FINANCIAL ORGANISATION OF KFW (single) You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the correction of that report and the report of the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since amendments have not been submitted to the bill before I conclude the search in particular, I ask if there is a need for a final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We are moving to the 19th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON DAVANJ CONTRAGRANDATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE BY THE SERBIA OF THE EUROPEAN INVESTICION BANK FOR THE FUNDING OF THE SERBIA (single details) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Dragoljub Stamenković, Zoran Krasić, Momir Marković, Milovan Radovanović, Zlatan Jovanovic, Branislav Rankić and Veroljub Arsic. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the first amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Milovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic, amendment to Article 5. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
