ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23915	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I have to mention what Mr. Nedeljkovic said in his opening statement, as regards the merger of the debate on these four proposals. It doesn't make sense, although it takes a long time for the debate to be brought together by different legal proposals, and in particular it is not logical for the debate to be brought together according to proposals whose representatives are different ministers. We have a situation here that of the four legislative proposals -- two representing one minister, two representing the other minister, different spheres, but the debate is united and we are having a single debate on these proposals. Also, I mean, it's not logical and good to have a debate here, and none of the ministers are present right now. It would be good if they were present, so that we could tell them what we think about these laws and try to improve these proposals with our proposals which, in our opinion, are not the best quality. I will start with the first amendment and addition of the Law on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of taking over the commitments of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Employees. First, for the sake of the public, to say to those people who are interested, and it is about pensioners, that a little over two months ago we adopted the Law on Public Debt, or the Law on the Obligation of Employees by the Republic of Serbia, which makes the Republic of Serbia an obligation to pay 1.5 pensions to former employees, means pensioners, over the next few years. The law, adopted at the end of September, defined that debt to pensioners totalling more than 23 billion dinars was paid through the bonds of the Republic of Serbia, the following dynamics: the total debt was planned to be paid in three years of war, starting in 2006 – each year for a third of that debt; it was precisely defined to pay a third on 20 January 2006, and on 20 January 2007 – the second third and 20 January 2008 – a third, which would pay off the entire debt. So it was planned that pensioners would receive bonds that had that maturity and then collect their claims from the state. What's going on in the meantime? The finance minister comes before the Assembly with a proposal to amend this law, where the essence changes. Instead of bonds, pensioners are now getting a debt in cash, cash. Well, that's good, but it's not clear why and why that subsequent mind came after two months. Why is it that two months ago we have a minister's claim that it must not be otherwise, and after two months we have something new, something that's more favourable and something we've been looking for then? It's not good that instead of three wars, this debt is now divided into six wars. Now, pensioners in Serbia, instead of getting a third of this debt at once, will get one-sixth, starting in December of this year. So, the payoff dynamics are changing, so the pensioners are now winning the first war in December of this year, followed by February 2007, and again July 2007, February 2008, and July 2008. So again, it's quite precisely defined the dynamics of payment, it's still pretty accurate about payout terms, it's February and July every year next year until 2008, when this payment will finally be over. When explaining the reasons for the adoption of the laws of urgency and the effects of this law, the minister noted here that the conditions and the possibility of paying off the debt in cash were now created and that it would start paying off in December of this year, not in January 2006, as envisioned by earlier law. What I just said is not clear where we have these new conditions after two months? Who created them, based on what? I get the impression that that previous law was made by another government, so now this government is changing it, because it's found some better quality solutions. Also, here in the analysis of the effects of the law, it is said that these changes have created positive effects for the users of the rights, and then in the second position it is said that because of the urgency of the adoption of the law and the positive effects, from which they arise for the users of the rights, no analysis of the views of the interested parties could be carried out. Interested persons are primarily pensioners. Now who can judge and write on their behalf that there are positive effects for them if he hasn't consulted them at all? So without their views, someone takes the right to estimate on their behalf that there are positive effects, by adopting these changes and supplementing this law. The second law, which is here, is the public debt law of the state against the pensioners of farmers to whom the state owes 20.5 pensions. With DOS coming to power in 2000, the debt to these pensioners was 18 pensions, and now it has increased to over 20. With this category of pensioners, which has more than 200,000 in Serbia and whose pension is symbolic even after a massive increase mentioned by the minister, which was said of the previous two days, the pension is below 5,000 dinars. According to this proposal, it is symbolic means, of pure discrimination against pensioners. In fact, the existing law, which we adopted in late September, meant to pay off this debt in five annual wars, to be divided into five years, to pay off in 2006 and to end in 2010. It is foreseen to be paid through bonds and payment terms have been established: 20 February 2006 etc. until 20 February 2010, if it were the last payment. By amending and supplementing this law, I must stress and underline, and that is what is bad and what is not favourable for this category of pensioners, the prolonging of this debt is foreseen. Instead of starting to pay off in 2006, these changes in debt payments only start in 2007. The deadline is now shortened, so from 2007 to 2010, when the last payment is made, farmers' pensioners will receive one quarter of this debt. It is a matter of purely discrimination against a category of inhabitants. The promoter must know that agricultural pensioners have retired or have achieved that right with 65 years of life. If this debt was created in an earlier period, it means that they are now over 70 years old, and they should wait for the first war for two more years. The first war comes, i.e. they win it in 2007. Many of them will not live to see the first war, let alone the last one in 2010. Please, and I ask the representatives of the ministry, since the ministers are not here, we have tabled several amendments to these draft laws. It would be good for them to seriously consider, take seriously, that in any way this situation that has been proposed here improves, that pensioners get at least part of these benefits within a shorter and more reasonable time. So they wait 2007 for the first war, I don't think it really makes sense. There's no point in handing out pensioners, if the pensioners, who are with the employee fund, are paying off the first war this year, in about 10-15 days, then there's no point in these others waiting another two years for that first war. What's not clear here yet and what's unacceptable to me is why there are no precisely defined payment deadlines for this category of pensioners. If the employees have precisely defined deadlines, payout dynamics, if we are in existing, basic law and for these pensioners, farmers have precisely defined payment terms, why now there are no such terms, but only in 2007 will there be a first war. Will it be in January, December, no one knows. It remains for the government to decide when it will do so and whether it will do so at once, or once, or it will be in five payments over the year, so all of this remains unclear in this law. That is why this law is not good, and that is why the demagogue story of one of the ruling coalition MPs, yesterday or the day before, is that because of the radicals these laws will not be adopted, so pensioners will not get their benefits, or part of this debt. It might be better if these changes weren't even adopted, so according to that existing law, they'd get what's coming to them sooner and better under the existing law. As far as the third legislative proposal is concerned, it is a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on financial support for families with children, I must say that there are some good things here, and the good thing is that compensation has been introduced – assistance for mothers for the first-born child. That's what's good. I'm one of the initiators and decision-makers in this regard in So Baji's Garden. Namely, the SRS parliamentary group in the Bayin Basta Municipality Assembly has proposed that at least five times so far, So Bajina Basta adopt a decision on a one-time assistance to mothers for the first-born child. Unfortunately, the majority, consisting of DS, SPS and DSS, did not have hearing and did not find it appropriate to adopt such a decision. So it's good that what was done at the level of the Republic, because it didn't make sense to help, which, of course, is good for mothers for second, third and fourth children. It still needs to stimulate the birth of the first child. What's not good here is that the amount proposed is symbolic. Twenty thousand dinars, as proposed by this proposal, are little, not enough, symbolic for the birth of the first child. In any way, it was necessary to find the means to increase this amount because it was the first step. Families or couples who decide to give birth to the first child will go on much easier, but the first child needs a lot of funds and the most money, and later they can use a lot of things from the previous child and they will all be relieved. What's especially not good here is supposed to be paid in 24 wars, and no one predicts interest. For the fourth child, the supplement is now 186,000 dinars, as far as I understand the minister, if it's warmed up with 24, means about 7,000 dinars, is 7,000 dinars this year or in January of the month the same thing as 7,000 dinars in 24 months? Why is no interest foreseen, why is no adjustment of that amount not foreseen? If it is synchronised twice a year, why is it that those who exercise their right in January of next year do not agree on that amount during the 24 months? We have inflation this year of 17%, maybe more by the end of the year. We have an objective situation that next year won't be any better. If these funds are not interest-free, they will be dissuaded, and you have not helped their parents, but you have literally taken away some of the funds that belong to them under the law. Do not give them any rights, and later take away some other laws. This is their right that has been acquired by law and do not take it from them by other law, especially to claim that it is good that you do it to them. If you were already going to help your families, you should have found a way to provide income compensation during maternity leave for unemployed mothers. It's a kind of discrimination. Of course, you didn't get into that part of the law, you talked about other things here. I'm talking about the basic law of 2002. We have, in addition to other benefits and visions of help, and compensation during maternity leave to the mothers who are employed. However, we have a privilege of employment. We have no labour deficit in Serbia, but a huge surplus. Women who are employed are privileged. Unfortunately, this is the situation in Serbia. Why is it that one who cannot be employed now has no right to this compensation during maternity leave or sick leave for the care of a child? So, you should have found a way, a way to help those mothers who are not employed or the mothers who live in rural areas, who do not want another job and live on agriculture, will be prevented from contributing to their family by pregnancy. They need help. So if we're going to help, let's help everyone, not make a difference, not make discrimination. These laws, which are proposed, largely discriminate against the potential beneficiaries of these rights offered. So I ask you to take this seriously, to consider the amendments that we have submitted, to try to find the best solutions in the interest of all those whose laws are intended and directed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23916	The People's MP Ivana Kovacevic has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23917	Dear President, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, four legislative proposals are in front of us today to discuss. The first two refer to the return of public debt to pensioners. Then there is the law amending the Social Protection Act and the Financial Support Act for families with children. Why are we talking about these four laws together? First I'm going to try to find something that's a common denominator for all these four laws. It connects them to the fact that they are socially just and that they correct the injustice that has been done to some categories of our population. First, I must say that I am personally very pleased that the finance minister has found the possibility that the debt that this government has inherited towards the pensioners, instead of in bonds, as originally foreseen, will return to the money. Personally, I think that this solution for pensioners is much better, that it's less complicated, and it's especially good that the first war of that debt to the pensioners of the PIO Fund will start paying off as soon as we've voted in the Assembly of these laws, which means before New Year's Eve. I think they could use that money for New Year's Eve. These laws correct another injustice, and this injustice is done to the disabled. I don't know how much everyone knows, but people with disabilities, our citizens who have a 100% disability on one basis, had the right to other people's care and help. However, what was happening in practice? They made it happen on three grounds. Then it happens that some get just 4,600, some get 7,000, some get 8,000. I don't think that's fair. Why? They all have difficulties, they all need other people's care and help, and in any case, they need equal money to meet some of their basic needs. That is why this change will go in the direction that some categories will increase this amount by 60% and some by as much as 160%, which would practically mean that from mid next year, we would be going to go to all of them to make that amount for other people's care and help up to 70% of the average salary, which I think is very good. I hope in the future we can give a bigger amount, but at this point I think we're correcting that injustice. Another change in this law also applies to foster care. We all know that children without parental care, other than being housed, are also housed in foster homes. It's a better kind of protection and it is more humane, because that's how they live in a family. So far, it has been limited that one family cannot receive an unlimited number of children. Now we're changing that and we're not limiting that right. Maybe someone won't agree, but since I worked at the Center for Social Work and I saw in practice what it looks like, a family of quality have no reason to limit the number of children, and the reason more – in practice, there were four children from one family who had lost their parents. Then it was because of that restriction that brothers and sisters went to one family and two other brothers went to another family. I don't think that's humane at all and that this change is very good. As for the law on financial support for the family with children, the first and key changes are that we are now introducing a supplement for the firstborn child. That was out of the law so far. It was intended only for the second, third and fourth children. This is very good, because I think this is the government's suggestion that the government is actually fighting the white plague in action, not just in words. The addition for the second, third and fourth children will be paid in two years from now, so, in 24 months, not once, as so far. We heard different discussions during yesterday, where some disagreed with this solution. I think this is a good solution, because, say, a family that has four children in the next two years will receive over 7,000 dinars every month. I think that makes the child much safer when we all know that in the next two years, while the child is still little, until it strengthens, the family gets 7,000 dinars a month. In addition, a family that is more materially poor can also exercise the right to a child’s allowance. So, if he has four children, it's still about 7,500 dinars, and extremely poor families can also achieve the right for material security of the family. If it's a five-member family, it's over 7,000 dinars again, so we'll get a sum of nearly 22,000 dinars, which the family and children will receive monthly. I think it's a figure that can satisfy the family's basic needs with children. Another change that, in my opinion, is very good, which is a way of achieving a child's supplement. So far, it has happened that, let's say, when a child's supplement is applied for, on average, the foster care allowance was also accounted for, and compensation for the material security of the family, and compensation for other people's care and assistance. Since these are social benefits, I think we're correcting injustice and now families will be able to make that child's allowance much easier. So now they're not going to get those receipts that they have, and they're receiving them because they're already poor, they're going to go on average, so they're going to make it so much easier. I wouldn't talk for long, since it's important that we pass these laws as soon as possible, just to pay off that debt, the first war before the new year. I think these arguments are enough to convince most MPs to vote for these laws, and the G17 Plus MP will certainly vote for them, fully support them, which is because they are socially just and that they are correcting injustice against our pensioners, families with children and our disabled.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23918	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic, and let MP Mika Vlaovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23919	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must admit that I was hoping that Mr Lalovic, a MP or minister, who of them has come today, would be able to have a cup of coffee before I go out for a pay phone, because we really expect him to give us answers to a number of questions. A lot of lies and lies have been told about this law in the last few days. A good part of it was used to cover up some other things, to accuse the representatives of the SRS that, because we requested an apology from the government of the Republic of Serbia and Minister Dinkic for that outrageous scandal and outrageous behavior, we are actually making it impossible for the pensioners to exercise some of their rights or to prevent you from bringing them some of the unspeakable benefits so far. I will rely predominantly on two laws – the law on amendments and additions to the Public Debt Act on the basis of obligations for employees and on the basis of outstanding pensions for farmers. You have brought four laws together in a unique debate. I don't think any of you can say which is the common thread that connects these laws. The best evidence for that is the fact that you have authorized different ministers to represent the government. For two laws is Mladjan Dinkic, who, of course, must no longer appear here, and for two laws, the government's authorised representative is Slobodan Lalovic. I don't know what the benefits you've provided for these laws and, here, let's start with the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Debt Act on the basis of the commitments of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund. In an explanation of the adoption of this law and the reasons for the adoption of the law, by an urgent procedure, you say, 'The reasons for the adoption of this law by an emergency procedure stems from the need for this law to be considered and brought forth as soon as possible... ''So, the reason for the urgency is because of the need to consider something urgent, which is so pointless that I am almost certain that this argument was written by Mr. Mladjan Dinkic himself. You further say: "to create conditions for the first part of the obligations of the users of the right to be paid in the way that is foreseen in the proposed amendments and additions in December 2005". This is the first in a series of lies you've told about this law, trying to sort of justify the adoption of this law, and it can be proven in a very simple and exact way. The vote on this law and other laws on the agenda of this session is scheduled to take place on 23 or 24 December. If we assume that this plan and the dynamics of work will come true for you, so that 23, unfortunately, pensioners across Serbia, this law will be passed, i.e. that most of it will be provided for its adoption, at the earliest of 24 December, this law can be published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". It is foreseen in transitional and final provisions that the law enters into force on the eighth day since the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". So, if it is published on December 24th, as early as possible, this law will come into effect only on December 31st 2006, which means that only after New Year's holidays, and the ministries will start working after Christmas, on January 9th or 10th 2006, will someone in the ministry be able to begin to think that some of the funds needed for this payment will be rerouted to the PIO Fund, and then only then will they start thinking about when and how, with which part of the pensions, this will pay off, because it certainly won't work specifically. So, what was foreseen by the Public Debt Act, which we also criticised and said is an extremely bad solution because pensioners will be forced to have something that you owe them for a few more years, and the truth is, I have to say that the previous speaker has deceived the public and the pensioners, because this is no debt from what previous period, this is your democratic debt that came after 5 October 2000. This is something that Vojislav Kostunica, Zoran Djindjic, Mladjan Dinkic, Djelic and all others who did and made up the ruling set from 5 October 2000 to the day of today. You say yourself that you did not arrive because of the urgency of passing this law and the positive effects that arise for the users of the rights of this law, and could not be analysed by the views of interested persons, or pensioners, because they are the most interested when they will receive this little misery. What would you have heard if you even tried to run an analysis like that? I'll tell you what question you'd have to ask them. By law, which is now in force, you have pledged to pay what you owe the pensioners, so I am now talking about this debt of one and a half pensions not paid since 5 October 2000, by paying into three wars and by paying the first third to be paid on 20 January 2006. Now you're changing that solution and you're saying it won't be paid in three wars but in six wars, with the first war being around January 20th, but it's not safe either, because you haven't fixed here when it's going to be paid, and the second war will be paid in July 2006. So instead of paying the pensioners that half of your pension in January 2006, you will pay the sixth in January, so half of the amount planned, and the other half will be forced to wait until July 2006. This way you extend the total period for which payment is expected until July 2008, instead of 20 January 2008, which is originally a certain period, which was also too long. What further attention should be paid, since you say that the adoption of this law provides conditions for these obligations to be paid in cash and paid in a simpler manner, it should be said that this one and a half pension is paid for within a total period of 32 months. So by July 2008, from today, there are 32 months, and when it's divided, it turns out that 0.04 per cent of the pension will be paid monthly. So that's the famous dynamics of Mladjan Dinkic, and then there's a legitimate question, if you already have 49 billion surpluses in the budget that have been adopted recently, and this one and a half pension is only 23.5 billion, then why, if you love pensioners so much, suddenly don't pay what you owe. Because, I'll remind you, you've damaged them enough by the very fact that by this law you refuse to grant them the right to interest. So you've determined that interest on this debt to pensioners will be accounted for by 8.5% on an annual basis, which is simply unheard of. It's interest that's nowhere else. I'll remind you that in this year 2005, inflation is over 20%, but also, in 2005, you don't account for any interest on this debt you have. It is simply said here – for this first war to be paid there is no interest, for the second war you say – in July 2006, increased interest rate by 8.5% on an annual basis, which is calculated for the period from the day of the first payment of 2005, which will not be until the second payment in June 2007. Why, when you determine interest, have you taken this period since 2000, since when do you owe, when you started late, until today, there is no interest? Do you charge pensioners, whether they owe anyone on any basis to any state? You are counting legally tight interest from the day of maturity. Why didn't you decide on the pensioners' debt to pay legal interest from the day of dues, to the day of final payment? Can anyone rationally explain that? I don't think he can, and that's what would be the real question and the right answer. So, why don't you account for the interest the way you're counting on these same pensioners when they owe for electricity or why don't you say, for what you owed for the last five years' electricity, we'll now make a debt reprogramme, so you'll start paying off from February 2006 and by then we'll write you off every interest? So you have the same arches and when you kidnap and when you give what these people have long earned. Of course, you won't do anything like that, but what is our obligation, we of the SRS parliamentary group will certainly vote against these laws, because these laws do nothing good. I'd like to say just a few more words about the Public Debt Act on the basis of the commitments of the Republic Fund for Pension-Invalid Insurance of Farmers. The situation here is even worse than it is for this previous law, and here the obligation, which was due to be paid by 20 January 2007, was postponed until the first payment in 2007. So, something totally fluid. The government will determine the dynamics later, you haven't specified anything, and whether anyone from the ruling coalition, I call on anyone, the ministry or to bring in any other reinforcements, can say what is more favourable to the pensioners. Is it a more favourable fixed obligation to pay something off on 20 February 2006 or is it preferable to say – until the final payment in 2006, and we will then determine when. If you wanted to pay by that deadline, you wouldn't have changed the law. You give yourself unlimited authority to pay off what you owe these people long ago at any time in 2006, if and when funds are found, while at the same time determining that you will not be counting any interest on it. Because of all this, I repeat once again, the SRS parliamentary group, because of the pensioners, will not, that is how Mr. Angelkovic, vote for this law, and I hope that the SPS parliamentary group will also follow our example. Otherwise, go out and say in a concrete way what it is that you offer more favourably to the pensioners of these laws than by this existing one.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23920	The People's MP Mika Vlaovic has the word and then the People's MP Momir Markovic and the People's Messenger Zivodarka Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23921	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, there must be a discrepancy between what is desire and what are possibilities. It's a perfectly normal opposition when he tells a nice story to the people and the one who has to pay for it is talking about possibilities. The first time this law was in September, I found a grudge that I have now. It's not a good thing one of them gets paid in three years and one of them pays for five years. That's where the farmers turned out to be second-class citizens again. However, there is an amendment to the SRS that says something different, so in the debate there is an opportunity to accept it. I have another suggestion. A good part of the young farmers, in these two years since registrations started, and they were either at the labour bureau or employees of non-paying companies, registered and returned to agriculture and were assigned to pension insurance for farmers. In that same house, where these young people are, there's a pensioner, not in every one, but in some, a pensioner farmer. Now, since the situation in agriculture is what it is, many pension insurance obligations have not been paid several years back. The Appellate Ministry to find the possibility that the debt of these families they have, among young people, is a pension debt, and the old state owes it to them, to move it, because it certainly won't pay, it's going to get paid and it's just creating a certain problem. It can be solved with a little goodwill and a little solution, and I think there are still more ways that the government and the state can take the money, so they can speed up that payment. Yesterday, in "News", on the first page – three pictures so-called "News". Great farmers, I call them – tycoon, they argue that they work 20,000 acres, and one of them declares: the state drags our hand into our pocket. Imagine how much he's stalling them, 4,000 per hectare are paying the state's lease, and the land's lease in cross-migration transport is going from 100 to 150 euros. Only on those 100,000 hectares sold, which is state-owned, could farmers' pensions be paid in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23922	The People's Messenger Momir Markovic has the word, and let the Messenger of Zivodarka Dacin be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23923	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is amazing how the ruling majority manages to merge incompatibly and thus damage, above all, the SRS parliamentary group. It's not the first time they've combined a discussion of four or five laws, and now I really have to ask what kind of connections they have to do with unpaid pensions to farmers and the law on amendments to the Social Protection Act. What does unpaid pensions have to do with the debt since 2000, and the Financial Support Act for families with children? It may be one minister, perhaps from one, but these are incompatible things and we are forced to shorten the discussion, because, thank God, it's coming from the ruling furniture, and it's also from what's called the opposition, so there's no one, nobody's answering, or there's one or two, literally their time is going down, and you've found a way to deny the MPs of the SRS to say what they have. Now, because of my colleagues behind me on the list, and they belong to the SRS parliamentary group, I have to keep my discussion to a minimum, and I had a lot to say. Let's just say, just a few words about this law on financial support for families with children and a proposal to discuss it today. Article 12 states that the parental allowance for the first child is paid once, up to 20,000 dinars. You've declared this a newspaper. This may be the news of the Bulldozer Revolution, I don't know, but I know that my child was born in 1977 and that there was immediately that maternity package, which was far greater than these 20,000. On the other hand, for the second, third, fourth child is paid to 24 wars, why didn't you take it off for five years, say, so when he goes to school, he's just about to be bought a pen from that last war, because it's gonna be worth so much, he won't be able to buy him shoes or shoes. I'm just going to go back to these two laws and try to explain how much you've praised here, here, because of the MPs of the SRS we're not working for two days, pensioners don't get what's coming to them. The first law needed bonds to get pensioners, so you remembered that bonds are binding and you're trying to pay off this bill with money, because then a pensioner with a bond would go to the bank and raise his money. You pay in cash. However, it is said, since 2006, that we should take this law for PIO farmers created on the basis of outstanding pensions, etc. Here you are saying: from February 20, 2006 to February 20, 2010, interest is calculated from 8.5%. What you were supposed to pay for in 2006 was to be paid in six sixths, so on February 20, 2006, 20 February 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010. The first payment to pensioners, not to be deceived, does not go on February 20th or early 2006, but goes on, writes well, it is a change of Article 4, says: in 2007, at a height of one quarter. Further, 2008, 2009, 2010 and what should have been in six parts, but in January to pay and start since 2006, you have been paying off since 2007. The same is true with these pensions, just a little bit, of the Law on the Public Debt of the Republic, on the basis of the commitment of the Republic Fund of PIO employees created on the basis of outstanding pensions. Furthermore, Article 4 provided for one third to be paid on 20 January 2006, and on 20 January 2007, one third to 20 January 2008. The changes say this - in December 2005; therefore, you will not pay in January 2006, but in December 2005, for a whole month or maybe 20 days, but by the time this law is passed, it will come again in January; you pay one-sixth. You pay the second sixth in June. You better keep those pensioners' money than they can, why don't you pay them a third in January, so he can spend it all on New Year's Eve and the Serbian New Year's. Furthermore, instead of paying them back one-third in February 2007, you pay them one-sixth in February 2007 and July 2007. So, not to be that because of the radicals, or the demands of Serbian radicals, all because of the apology, that these laws were delayed – these laws are worse, they have worse conditions than the laws that have so far been valid, or were in force, and neither have they. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SRS will certainly not vote for any of these legal proposals, and I ask you, Minister, not to get away with what the SRS asked for yesterday's apology, but to pay off the old law for the people, and as they will keep their money, don't worry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23924	The People's Messenger, Živodarka Dacin, has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared for the word, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23925	Whenever laws like this are on the agenda, it always seems like a little time for a rational and real debate. There is indeed a reason why these four laws are now united in this debate. First of all, I would say that this is a well-intentioned attempt by our government and the state to help, and to say, in some way, correct the injustice of pensioners, whether they were employed, whether they were farmers, according to disabled persons and, of course, another endangered category, which is children. We socialists will, as far as possible, of course, always advocate that social justice comes, although I would prefer that we have fewer social security users and needs for them, that the more people do to us, the more people do to us, and then there would probably not be so much controversy about insufficient money, that is, what will be covered up by this law. What is it that we generally consider to be an objection? It's just these two first laws, where they're talking about paying back public debt to pensioners from the past tense. Because we have information that farmers need to be paid 20 billion back, which is 20.5 pensions, and workers with PIO - 23.5 billion, and they have only one and a half pension left, where they are fortunate to have none. But if we look at these 20.5 that the farmers have, then I really think the farmers are back in an uninvited position. Therefore, we realize that this should be brought as soon as possible, because all pensioners are eager to see it. Believe me, a few of them asked me when we were going to vote, because they heard that this money should be in their accounts by New Year's Eve, and with that, it must be our responsibility to do it. But it seems to me, and a request from us from the Socialists to the minister to try and see if there is a possibility that remaining agricultural pensions will not be left out in 2006. Four parts have been planned to be paid since 2007, and we propose – let it be in 2006, even in five parts, simply to show good will, because farmers, in which we all swear whenever it is difficult, are those who carry the state, and somehow it seems to me that we pay the least attention to them. As far as the proposal for a law in the field of social protection is concerned, it is absolutely something to be welcomed, it is about increasing income for other people's care and helping disabled people with 100% damage. Today in the country we have about 70,000 social security users and fortunately, 12.5 thousand people, who actually have a 100% disability, and we know which people belong to that category. Of course we wish we didn't have that much, but if we do, it's really faces that can't function without a man who can help them and get compensation for it, in terms of other people's care and help. This other person's care and assistance has been really insufficient so far, but given that it will now be paid on one basis, so 70% of the average profit in our country, it should already be around 13,000 dinars, not to say that it may be more than 70% of the average earnings in Serbia. Of course, what we're going to stand for, it's just an amendment to the draft law on financial support for the family with children. You remember for certain that, both the public and all the MPs who spoke when this law was on the agenda, we really gave a lot of arguments in favour of the fact that we should help and give financial support to the family, perhaps before the birth of the first child, rather than the second, third and fourth, although, of course, everything has its place. We can talk about whether 20,000 is small, not enough, but I want to believe that this is just the beginning of thinking about the Government of Serbia to do something to improve our country's birth rate, in terms of thinking about a population policy that has definitely, a few years ago, been neglected. I'd say there really is a positive shift here. I would like to point out once again that for the first time in a long time, in the Health Insurance Act, we have singled out a part of the funds that will relate to the health care of mothers and children, including family planning. This is a segment that can just help, in a way, start a family when a newborn comes home. I'd say I see this as a greeting to a new member of our country. I think that's how it should be in the future. Of course, this isn't the only thing we should stop at. We should really do everything we can to definitely create a national strategy for the country of Serbia, which would much more consider all the segments needed to improve the country's birth rate, i.e. the country's population policy. I'd like to say something, and it seems to me that so far no one has said it, it's one change that has been made as a result of some cases in practice. It's very good, and I think that in the future, even this law, we're going to change how real life makes us. Why am I saying this? Article 11 says that for the first time now the right to a parental allowance can also be achieved by the father of a child. That's very important. So far, we've only had a mother, with all due respect and respect, but we've had cases when that mother left her children and left them to her father. The father had no right to implement this parental supplement, for the law so far did not say so. Of course, we're people who need to stick to the letter of the law. There's really a right wrong here. It can't just be considered that if there was a mother's death, the father takes care of the child, but there are exactly cases when the mother is alive, she left the child, two, three, four children. I ask the question of the Minister, as a problem, or maybe it's defined in another way, in the future, what kind of treatment it is, because we just had a case on the Committee and thanks to the understanding of all of you, or our ministry, that injustice has been corrected. Mother abandoned her children, three children left from her first marriage, a marriage that was left behind, and children left by her mother's father. Father has a new marriage and a new child. Does this child have the treatment of a fourth child per father, or is that mother who definitely left her three children, so absolutely nothing to do with them, will have one child there, so that child will have the right, as the fourth live birth child, from the mother who left the previous three children? Fortunately, these are cases that aren't common. I just want to put it this way, because that's the case we had on the Committee in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia and just because it happens later. So how is that going to count, who's going to be entitled to this supplement for a second, third or fourth child, no matter what combination it is? We're absolutely positive about these laws. Of course, we'll vote for these laws. The SPS parliamentary group has submitted amendments to some members, wishing to achieve social justice as far as possible at this time. In any case, we do not want to lose hope, we are optimistic and we want to believe that from day to day all Serbian citizens will live better and that there will be fewer people who will need social protection and for this kind of help. Also, that society and the state will have more money, so that they can help such people more adequately, so that they can live and function normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23926	I'd like to thank Miss Liver Dacin. The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Nadika Momirov be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23927	In principle, I will only include these first two laws, since we have a lot of amendments to those other two proposals in the social area. These two so-called. Dinkic's public debt law was passed in this National Assembly on 29 September 2005. I must remind you that only one amendment concerning time has been submitted to these two SRS bills. With the amendment, we wanted to equalise pensioners who were formerly employed and pensioners of farmers, with regard to the deadlines for the achievement of obligations, under these two laws. The amendment was then rejected by the majority. I just want to remind you that we didn't attack those two laws the way we usually do. Why? Because then we were given the assurance that it was the only way for the state to settle its commitments, that there was no space, that there was no room, that it was not expected, but that through the issue of bonds it could extend the deadline for the final settlement of the debt. We respected this situation and then we said – well, just equalize the pensioners of farmers and pensioners who were formerly employed. It has not been a month since that epochal solution, which is just, among other things, and in the words: thanks to these laws, the pensioners will light up. We didn't mean to spoil your ten days of pleasure and liquefying. Then there was a meeting with the IMF and there was an epochal solution again. It is now an epochal solution – not to issue bonds, but to regulate the law to make cash payments within some deadlines. Of course, once again epochal for the pensioners, after diving tears these new ones, according to their retirement fate, but with extended deadlines, so what was 24 months, became 31, what was full of four, became a full five. Now, we have to inform the public, because it's perfectly reliable, based on this behavior, everything epochal, and when the bonds and when the debt settles cash, within some time limits. Now we have to open the cards and tell this story to the end. What's this about? This government needs a law like this to stop disputes, which have to come on the agenda, between pensioners and the Pension invalidity Insurance Fund. Why? When they violated the Law on PIO those before you, and you a few months ago, you couldn't avoid the provision of the Law on PIO, which says that pension is determined in the monthly amount and paid back. So, the deadline has been defined. Retirement for a certain month is due on the last day of that month. The next day, the PIO Fund is late. Since he's late, every pensioner has the right to sue, to seek, to have the court commit the Fund to pay him a pension, because he's late. In order not to build it up, and such disputes have been pretty much over the past 15 years, I have to tell you that these disputes are formally at the same level as the disputes that have been brought before the courts over the old foreign currency savings, then the state needs a law like this to stop the litigation. When the judge gets this law, he says – please, the law prescribes what is late and how the debt is made up, when it comes to the claims that come every month and so on. I must remind you that as early as 2003 we participated and influenced Gordana Matkovic and convinced her not to play much with acquired rights, so the rights were acquired and remained in this text of the Law on PIO. So, gentlemen of pensioners, you can forget everything that Mladjan Dinkic and Miloljub Albianic told you here. I thought he was only sowing things from this pay phone, but the other day I heard it in the hallway, it's worse there. They don't think about you, but they think about how to stop the litigation, that the judge has an excuse and they say, "The lawsuit is dismissed." Why? Because the question of retirement maturity is regulated by the last law. What law is that? Until a few days ago, it was the Law on Public Debt, and now there will be a law on amendments to the Law on Public Debt, no more bonds, but within certain deadlines an appropriate part of the pensioner's claim to the PIO Fund is met. So, they keep kidnapping, they need this law for cover. Now you see what kind of economic experts they are. What's the function of legally tight interest? The function is to preserve the value of the claim. Dinkic steals you on that, too. He says – your claim is not protected by legal tight interest, it is not protected by growth, by a percentage that corresponds to a percentage of the price growth at a small or cost of life. No, but at a fixed rate of 8.5%, and 8.5% is twice as much as inflation is this year. Just so you know how you are protected by G17 plus, Labus, Dinkic and this Miloljub Albianic. Maybe he doesn't know what 8.5% is, maybe he doesn't know what the legal tight interest is, what the demand is, what the pension is, but he needs to know, because in what year I have to retire, so I need to experience what G17 pluss me.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23928	There's still time to retire, you're still young, Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23929	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23930	You're still young for retirement.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23931	Mr. Angelkovic, that doesn't say it in the Rules of Procedure, you are required here to be a speaker, not to comment. If you have a comment, come out for a pay phone and comment. What do you care when I retire? Look at that synopsis and call it in order. So, Serbian citizens, this government doesn't take care of you. This government is sending you two messages. The first message - we have 40 and a few billion dinars extra and we don't know what to do with that money. Since we don't know what to do, we'll probably settle our debt to abroad in 2006. That's the new reality they're up for. It's the boss abroad. We have to give him the money, and you pensioners have to put up with it and wait. You see, you'd be better off, but this law is two days late in the assembly. Don't be late for this law any day. No one forbids you to settle your commitment to the pensioners. To settle your legal commitment, you don't need any laws. We've got enough law. We have the PIO Act, the Bond Relations Act, the Budget Act. You won't. You need the law as an excuse to stop the litigation. You need a law to boast with him that you allegedly did something for the pensioners, and you know that the PIO problems have been going on for 20 years. I want to remind you, you belong to that nomenclature and to that mentality that it disputed when we finished the pension compensation, to collect from these public enterprises, such as the EPS, which did not want to settle obligations to the state and to collect liabilities by allowing it to beat itself up with debts it has to pensioners. That's when you attacked it. You didn't realize the state's situation, and it was under bombs and sanctions. Now with you well-being, you're leaders in Europe, you're all leaders, you're leaders in destroying this country. You're ruining this country. That's why we're going to talk about each member in person. Just smile, and the goal is to come out here and smile and see the new reality that has hit us with this government and this young man Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23932	I thank you, Mr. Krassic. Mr. Albianic, as far as I can tell, he was able to provoke you. Here you are, looking for a replica. Replicate, or according to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23933	He did not provoke me, but provoked the citizens of Serbia and, above all, the pensioners. I have the right to a replica because of the direct importance of my name.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23934	You do, Mr. Albian, which is why I gave it to you, I'm just asking if it's for the replica or the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23935	As well as the names of the party G17 plus, in a negative context.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23936	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23937	What does the Government of the Republic of Serbia show by this law? It shows, first of all, the responsibility of the state to the pensioners. There's a serious question, why the debt to the pensioners. This debt was not done by this government, nor did it allow for this congregational convocation. This government and this congregation council make it possible to repay the debt to the pensioners. Correcting injustice from the past to the people. It is important to point out, and it was heard in the previous month when the previous Pensions Act was passed, that pensioners would receive fewer pensions, so different kinds of polemics were created in public. Today we have, and we will have next year, living proof that pensions will be bigger. We have a situation where pensions are regular and plus the state obliges itself to pay the pensioners in cash, in cash, in cash, in what they want most. When we talk about these debts, it's not just the debt of pensioners that came from the previous period. There are different types of debts towards Serbian citizens, internal debts that this state is doing neatly. It is now on the agenda to pay back the debt to pensioners, but it is neatly serviced by the old foreign savings, the loan for Serbia's rebirth and everything else. Fortunately, this law allows for something extra, and external debts to be serviced neatly. $700m in debt is written down to the state of Serbia through the functioning of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the laws that we are making. This allows the state to properly service external debts that have also been made during a previous period. This allows significant stability for the country. You can also see in the world measures that credit rating today has Serbia. It's at BB minus level, and soon, after the write-off of that debt, we'll come to an even higher level, in terms of what our country has in the world. Not to mention what our country's fundamental status means. The World Bank has done research and shown us and the entire world public that we are taking the lead in reforms in the world. (President: Time.) ) This enables all the progress of the state, and this means all together a improvement for all of us tomorrow – citizens of Serbia, pensioners, every layer of society.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23938	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23939	Mr. Chairman, I appeal to Article 104(1). This really offends the dignity not only of the National Assembly, but of the wider. I don't know what living evidence is. You call yourself in 2006 to give us living proof. When you give some evidence, in the future I expect you to say: these are dead evidence, these are living evidence. I don't know what kind of living evidence that is. You say pension payments go on a regular basis. What pensions, in what month? Mr. Albianic, if something is regular, then it means that the 1st pension is paid in the next month. This is how you argued with Mr Dinkic. He's talking one thing, you're talking the other. I need you to hold an MP's group immediately and figure out what's true about what you're talking about. You're saying you're gonna put that in people's cash. As far as I know, the minister only carries a bag here. What's that for our pensioners "cash"? Don't use those street tricks in the National Assembly and in the laws. You still say "responsible." You're calling for responsibility? A month ago, you passed the law and changed it. What is your responsibility? Your responsibility depends on some IMF reference officer. You don't know how to negotiate with them. When you negotiate with them, you say, "Please tell me what we have to do." That's not how you negotiate. The people who negotiate with you are surprised. They're simply surprised if anyone who represents the state can go so far below the state's best interests. You're not the only one. You remember that little Djelic, what he said in 2002: "We're going to talk, we know they're going to push us for it, and we're saying that the thing is done, we're offering something even more. That's how we confused them." That's how they run the country. Next you say - who made the debt? Ask your friends who brought you to power here, who held us under sanctions, bombed us -- why didn't they let our economy develop normally and work normally? Ask those who wore half-carriage from Panchev, and today they're playing some ministers. You promised pensioners in 2000 – 6.5 billion are waiting at the border, only to come to power. Believed men, whether hard, or tormented, computers – let's try these, too, maybe it'll get better. What did you do better? You're punishing them for not voting for you for 10 years, apparently. Well, the pensioners vote for all the parties, but you take it easy on them. Next, that bag of yours, you forgot one thing - it used to be a sock, so now you're sophisticated and you think you can finish the job with the bag. Just smile. You're going to go out again for this pay phone, and for God's sake, these days you're going to go out and smile and give people messages about a new reality. Yes, the citizens of Serbia, the new reality -- we have been hit by an elemental disaster.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23940	The word is made by MP Momir Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23941	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Rules of Procedure obliges us all to speak the truth from this pay phone and not to insult the dignity of this assembly, nor the dignity of the MPs, nor the dignity of the citizens of Serbia, or the pensioner, because in a particular case, it is about pensioners. Maybe I don't know math, but for me it's 2007 after 2006. As far as I can read the calendar and as far as I can read that law, in 2006, you were supposed to pay one-fifth of pensioners to farmers, and you're paying off in 2007. That's one quarter, but a year is waiting for it from one fifth to one quarter. As far as I know, 8.5% is much less than 20%, how much inflation this year is going to be, and how much is it going to be every year, unless Dinkic invents some lock to stop inflation with, and I don't think he's such an economist, because many world economists couldn't inflatorize trends in this situation and in this economy to stop. Inflation stops in a slightly different way. As far as I know, Serbian citizens are getting what they were supposed to receive in January 2006, not until 20 February 2007. I don't know if this mathematician really messed up the pots. What Mr. Krasic, the SRS MP, said about Mr. Albianic, analyzed I came to the conclusion that he had only confused the lessons in Segedin. They told him differently over here, and different over there. Then he confused it, and when he got here, nothing was clear to him anymore. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law is much worse than the law that was so far, and it's much worse than the law you passed in 2002, and it's much worse than the one you inherited, because pensioners under the old law got, yeah, electricity stamps, but they got and paid their dues for electricity. So the debt was completely eliminated. These are your debts from the bulldozer revolution here. Therefore, pay the citizens of Serbia as you told them you would pay them, at least in that law we passed here a month ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23942	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23943	It is really interesting to follow how something that is really good for Serbian citizens can turn into something that is not good with a tense rhetoric. Albianic is not present right now, I am deputy head of the parliamentary group. So, a group called G17 plus was called and I have the right to react that way. Do I have rights or don't I?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23944	Mr. Albianic is from G17 Plus. Let's be a little parliamentary.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23945	So it is undeniable that all the laws we talked about yesterday and today are good for the citizens of Serbia, and citizens can recognize that. The rhetoric that this law is worse than the previous law, and worse than the previous law, leads us to conclude that it was only good laws at a time when you were in power and the laws that you were making. Serbian citizens can easily compare, as well as pensioners, how they lived at the time, and how they live today, how many pensions they received then, what they could buy for these pensions and what they can buy today. So it's a very simple calculation and you don't need to be a math teacher like Mr. Albianic, so to calculate all that. If the previous law was better, why didn't you vote for that law? You voted against him and now you're going to vote against this, using rhetoric that really doesn't prove anything, that's just trying to spin the citizens around. The citizens will receive in cash, in cash, if we pass the law on December 24th. Anyway, by the end of the year, he'll get his first payment in cash. What it means -- in cash, the citizens of Serbia are absolutely clear. So, along with his December pension, he'll get an allowance that represents paying off the old debt. In December 2005, he will win the first war, and then he will win the second in July 2006. That's what it's about for those who are insured through the employee fund. As for the pensioners' fund, in 2007, the first war will be won and the payment will be completed by 2010, as planned. So there's no significant lag behind, there's nothing in what you're trying to tell Serbian citizens. There is really no need to spread unnecessary and untrue news. It is not news, but simply false, to show Serbian citizens that this government is not doing well, because it is doing well, it pays off its debts, its obligations and tries to make Serbian citizens' lives better and better. That's what the citizens of Serbia recognized. Why did the law change? It came because it created a possibility for pensioners to be paid in cash. You can convince them that it's not good, but you know that they'd rather receive cash than bonds. The bonds are something our citizens, unfortunately, don't believe much. Why? Because they were given loan bonds for Serbia's rebirth, so for the next 15 years they couldn't charge them. They could only charge them when this government started paying them off. So bonds are something that can commit a serious state, but that doesn't commit unserious power. Therefore, since Serbian citizens do not have much confidence in any government, it is better to pay them in cash and that is what has been achieved in negotiations with the IMF. Whether negotiations are good or bad, it says the arrangement with the IMF is over. When do we get the write-off? As soon as the board of directors of the IMF is in session, and they'll be sitting in December, when we're done with all our duties. So, negotiations have been brought to an end and as much as it sounds impossible for you, that's true, negotiations are well-led, quality, six audits have already passed and negotiations will be completed, each citizen will get write-offs. This is what is important for the citizens of Serbia, all debts are returning, both internal and external.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23946	May I ask you to bring the end?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23947	You can, I'll finish. So all that this government does in the field of helping pensioners and other hard-lived citizens is positive for them. You can convince them as much as you want it to be, when they get the check - they know how they live.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23948	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Momir Markovic. What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23949	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can finally boast that the results of my work in Parliament are beginning to be visible. Some of them figured out what I said. Not because I speak ill, but because they slowly get it. It's just that I don't understand that the laws, this one, are worse than the one that was before, and that one worse than the one before, and that the best laws were before the Bulldozer Revolution. That's right. I just don't understand how you're going to convince Serbian citizens that it's better to receive one-sixth of February 20th and the other-sixth in June instead of receiving one-third at the beginning of the year. How are you going to convince the pensioners that what you've been counting through their bonds is less than when you're counting 8.5% interest on inflation of 20%? How are you gonna convince the pensioners that you didn't stick your hand up their elbows in their pockets like this? Explain that to these same pensioners and citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23950	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23951	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 104, paragraph 1, regarding the speech of the G17 Plus lady. You just brought up some things that absolutely don't match the truth. You said a month and a half ago, when these two laws voted against. We didn't vote against it. Take a list and see who voted against it. We're not, we've been held back, or we haven't said anything about it at all. I just said, you can look at the stenogram, I saw the stenogram before this session, because I know there's a lot of things I can say from the pay phone, so since I like to disarm an opponent, then I'm a little armed with these things. At the time, we were very gentle under that law, according to both laws. We have submitted only one amendment, in principle, to equalise the pensioners of farmers and pensioners, who were once employed. So, the most correct thing you could expect. We've respected all your reasons that it's difficult, but you're showing absolute indifference that in a month you're changing the law and you're still boasting that this is epochal and even better. Albianic is probably now building some mathematical formula to prove that one-six is larger than one-third. I don't argue, he can do that, he can call that Milan Bozic and that Kovacevic that's in the NBS Council, he can get some more of his mathematicians to collect, but it's unproven. You said, "If this one's better for you than a month ago." We're not better. You're saying they're going to get part of the debt with a December pension. It doesn't depend on this law. When someone is in debt, they fulfill their obligations under existing laws. There was never a disturbance that pensions would be given at an increased amount in order to subsectively settle some earlier debt. Why cheat on the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that this law depends on whether they will be returned one piece in December? It is not up to Serbian citizens, depending on the will of Mladjan Dinkic, Vojislav Kostunica and this government. You don't need any new law, you have a legal basis. The legal basis, if you do not know, is found in Article 108 of the existing Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, is also found in the Liabilities Act. Don't mess things up. You're still saying you're talking to the IMF, so it's going to write off the debt. In front of the IMF, citizens are not debtors. What does a citizen owe to the IMF? Please, experts, explain that to us. Which one of you has entered into some contractual obligation with some world bank, and why are you saying that citizens are supposed to be disbursed? What are you talking about? Mr. Chairman, I'm extremely pleased. I call on the citizens of the Republic of Serbia – please join in the transfer these days, you will see what we have proposed to the amendments. The lady hasn't read our amendments. We didn't propose what she said to the amendments. On the occasion of each amendment, we will come out here and count on this to be an invitation for each amendment and for your representatives to come out with their views, and to carry out, if necessary, mathematical and political and every other bill, for each of these two draft laws. Here, you'll have reinforcements, there'll be your Dinkic, call your team, call all mathematicians. Call on these Tadic experts, as they stand behind this, not you, call everyone and the SRS will come, on every amendment, you 15 minutes, we 15 minutes, for the citizens of Serbia to see everything. But you won't, you won't even answer about the amendment. Now you've reached out here because you're a little offended, because we've seen your intentions. You want the law as a cover, to prevent litigation and nothing more, and to sing some of Labus's songs, how you take care of something, how you settle something. Well, here, prove that the sixth is larger than a third.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23952	The People's Messenger Nadika Momirov has the word. He's not here. Natasha Jovanovic. The Belief of Radet, from the place: I am instead of her. It's been replaced, Mr. Angelkovic. ) The word has a folk MP, Verica Radeta, and then a National MP, Nikola Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23953	Ladies and gentlemen, around these four laws on amendments and additions to certain laws, such a media ad was raised that it was likely necessary to convince Serbian citizens, pensioners above all, and families who expect the birth of the child, that these laws, I do not know how significantly to improve their material status, material position, and even Mladjan Dinkic for this speaker caused an incident to distract attention from these laws and that, possibly, Serbian radicals would prevent them from talking about the proposals of these laws. Of course, it was a bad attempt on his part, and he seemed to be a bad one. We will always talk about every draft law of this government, and we will always be critical of what we should critically look at, what we think is bad for the citizens of Serbia. The fact that someone comes out here and says that we're in vain telling Serbian citizens that they won't get anything from these laws, that we're telling them that this government is doing bad things, we're talking for free, when Serbian citizens know that they live well. I think that when they hear something like that, Serbian citizens are pulling their own hair out of their own misery that they can't come here for a pay phone to rip their hair off whoever dares such a lie and such deception to bring it to the public. Should Serbia's citizens explain how much a liter of rabbit costs, how much did it cost? Should Serbia's citizens explain how much more they have to allocate to pay for the heating of any kind? I was in one house the other day, in one of the city halls. I was shocked to see that a man lays corn – dry, dried, mature corn, says it is worth more than buying wood. This is due to the work and functioning of the government of Vojislav Kostunica and his ministers. That's what we're talking about here, primarily for the citizens of Serbia. Of course, it's not worth talking to you. We know that. You don't care about Serbian citizens. You have heard from Zoran Krasic what is the essence of the adoption and proposal of these laws – to prevent appropriate verdicts, which the government would commit to various payments. That's why you're changing the laws, which is why the President of the Assembly was praised, which was signed, which was in order, the law -- the 200th law, and here today we have four laws on amendments and additions to the law. This will be recorded as the adoption of new laws. We're changing what we brought, or what you brought a month ago. If that was so good, then what changed in a month that you had to change them? If that was as good as you said then, please don't do so much better for the citizens, they're sick of the good you predicted them a month ago in these laws. You are indeed an irresponsible and irresponsible government, and unfortunately also representatives of citizens sitting in this House representing the current assembly majority are also irresponsible and irresponsible, because saying everything you say about these laws and without shame comes out amongst the people, I think it really takes a special mental set. As is a special mental set of ministers, who sat here until a moment ago, and every time they talk about some of his laws, that is, the laws he represents, I mean Minister Lalovic, he's so freaked out in the media that it's just scary. I never understood it, it doesn't fit me, he used to be a union man, and now he's head of the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy. This: social policy, I find it particularly interesting. How can someone who is such a mental set, such as Minister Lalovic, do this job and how could he do union business? He talks about why this aid, or financial support to the family with children, is called this law, which is why it should not be paid once. Which is why it's better to split some amount of money into 24 wars. He says, "If they give it one time, then the child is born into a family, let the irresponsible family celebrate and spend the money they received in the name of the birth of the child." All of a sudden, they're gonna spend that money, and he's gonna convince them by this law that in their name he's gonna save, so he's gonna split that amount of money into 24 wars. I guess she expects the baby at four or five months old to tell her dad, when she gets that fifth in a row of war -- leave it, that's my money, that's what Uncle Lalovic sent me, you can't go to the pub to spend it. It's really amazing. It is amazing that the minister with so many cynicisms, with such a poor view of Serbian citizens, can step forward. He can talk about some extreme cases, about some families where they are the bearers, or fathers of those families, perhaps alcoholics, irresponsible people. We don't argue that there are any, but it's also in this ministry's jurisdiction. Social policy, counselling centres and centres for social work and assistance, not only materially, but in every other respect, this is what Minister Lalovic is talking about, but he has his own story that he attacks privates who deliberately increase pregnant women's wages to get more money from the budget afterwards. That's terrible, my people. We're just talking about the problem of the white plague in Serbia. What do we do to prevent that? What do we do with these laws, which are here today on the agenda? Twenty thousand families for the birth of the first child. What can be bought for 20,000. Serbia's problem is the birth of the first child. Where families, young couples, decide to give birth to the first child, they see that in a material way, it is not very bad, it survives, thank God, and then it is easier for them to decide on another child. Help to give birth and stimulate families for the birth of their first child, that's what special attention is needed to address. It's got to be a lot more than 20,000 dinars. It must be immediately, not that the law enters into force on January 1st, as it says here, just a little while to see, that -- effective on January 1st, is being applied as of January 1st, 2006. This law, realistically, will take effect in about eight or nine days. I ask the minister, who is not here, how will regulate this compensation for children and families who will receive children in those ten days, until January 1st, when this law will enter into force. It may seem petty to you, but it's a terrible injustice, when you're already passing this law and you're giving those 20,000 that don't mean anything, but they mean a lot to these families. Why doesn't it seem to all the children who are born from the moment of entry into force of this law? Indeed, don't worry about some things that are very important for the Serbian family, for all citizens of Serbia. When I wondered what we were even discussing in a united debate on these two laws, which represent two different ministers, I thought Dinkic and Lalovic might agree, that Dinkic would actually use that surplus from the budget, which is so praised, with some money he doesn't know what to do, so he can actually apply them to pensioners and to financial support for families with children. Of course, it's not gonna happen. Why do we insist and say, I'm not going to talk about how it was planned, and as you now predict, because we don't have time. That's what we're going to do with the amendments, the way you want to share back-up pensions. I'll tell you the SRS' position. In the amendments, however, we tried to ease that attitude a little, to convince Minister Dinkic to accept them. Essentially, the position of the SRS is that these are too small debts for Serbia, for the kind of budget we have, for the surplus we have and what we think we are, but Dinkic, as long as he lies, and he lied. If he didn't lie, let him prove it on these laws. These backlogs have to be paid immediately, and things like this aren't much for the state. Why are you making the difference again between the pensioners of farmers and pensioners who used to be employed? How long are you going to do that? How far are you going to tell the difference between the citizens of Serbia? Gentlemen, there are no ministers here, but you who will vote and who defend here only part of the law, only that minister, who does not know how to behave in parliament, as long as you defend ministers and government at all costs, you must be representatives of the people. You must and should return to the people who chose you. How are you going to show up in front of the pensioners, because you're talking about pensions, about an average pension of 12.5 thousand dinars. Who cares about the average, come out here, let the minister come out with a number – how many thousands of pensioners have less than 4,000 dinars, how many thousands of pensioners have pensions between four and 6,000. Who cares about the average that's being made on the basis of a number of high pensions. So, there's nothing pensioners get out of these. What Albianic said earlier that we would have living proof that these are good laws, he probably thought at least some pensioner would survive Dinkic's laws. Of course, we hope to survive, but Dinkic is counting on savings. He extended his debt to the pensioners for several years, counting on pensioners, which from old age, which is from disease, which, unfortunately, starves to die and will then be able to boast of surpluses in some future budget. Of course, the people realized that Dinkic would hardly write the next budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23954	The People's MP Nikola Todorovic has the word, and let the MP Radisa Ilic be prepared for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23955	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministry, if you could ask the Minister to enter the O.R., I'd have a few questions for him, I'd like him to answer me or in the form of a parliamentary question, which I'm going to ask during the debate. I will speak very specifically and briefly of the proposal for the text of the law on financial support for the family and I ask for a little concentration and attention and for this parliamentary majority, which supports the government, in order to see in some technical detail the problem that I will try to explain to you, as well as the gentlemen of the ministry, because I think it is very important. We're talking about other rights, the scope of these rights, the way rights are exercised, and I have certain objections that I think are justified and that I don't think it takes much effort to respect them. I will start with Article 13 of the proposed text of the law, where it is said that the bill of compensation and earnings is made by the employer, so pay attention – at the same time with the billing and payment of earnings. The key word is – at the same time as the billing and the payoff. For the sake of viewers, to make it clear what is considered a compensation, which is defined in Article 3 of the Law – for the exercise of the right to benefit during maternity leave, means that maternity leave is a matter, a absence from work for the care of a child and a absence from work for the care of a child. So it's about that compensation when it comes to maternity leave and leave during the care of the child, where the proposer says – at the same time as the billing and the payoff. You know that in Serbia, very few employers pay regular earnings, earning late three, four and more months. If the same way is now being calculated and paid off with a profit, then the foster mother and all the mothers in that capacity should wait to see if the employer will pay, when and how much. I don't know why there's such a need for that. If we left out this word – at the same time as the billing and the payoff, this word "paying" the profits, then the situation would improve. I want to remind you of your obligations under the Labour Act. It means that the employer is obliged to pay a salary or a salary once a month, or if he has not paid the earnings, then by the end of the current month to account and deliver the bill to the employee and to explain the reasons why he did not pay the earnings. Then a practically enforcer of these obligations would have a calculated income and would not have the need to wait for the employer to pay, so that at that time he would pay and compensation for the pregnancy or something else, and why the mother, the foster mother, would wait for the employer, who was unable to do so. He's often in no condition to account, he's late for payment, and if it's all worth it to the end. I think it's very important in this way to formulate that obligation under Article 13 of the Law. In practice so far, just out of ignorance, the calculation of temporary prevention fees for work and the way the state pays, the employer only has to account for, to deliver to the competent service, whether it means, just because he didn't know that the billing and delivery, because there are exactly in a certain way regulated obligations, deadlines are short, those funds can't be charged on a different basis, but only for that purpose, and if it isn't paid, it must be returned within a certain period, with a certain interest, so in this part too I think it can be okay. Article 8 of the proposed law says that a parental supplement is achieved by a mother for the first, second, third child and so on and says, and now conditions, if she is a citizen of Serbia-Montenegro, she has a residence in the Republic of Serbia and now, crucially, she is exercising the right to health care through the Republic Institute. What do we do for those who don't? What about a large number of young couples or families who do not work and have children? Is that family support? Is that support for increasing the birth rate? I especially draw attention to the problem of the village. A few days ago, after this pay phone, I listed a village from Majdanpek, where I found a family with three children, a young couple, no one works, children are 13, 11, and two years old. The mother paid for the hospital's expenses during childbirth, the cost of leaving the hospital; no health book, no basis for insurance. If that's a condition, it has to be secured through the Bureau. I don't see a way, in the sense of the law, of what is considered a family. In addition to the three-child married couple, a living host who left early for a disability pension, working in a mine lost his health, his ability to work, and his wife and grandfather, the Thessalonians, also live with them. They have income from agriculture, i.e. What the tax administration calculated for them, a total of 11 dinars. A large number of families have income from agriculture one dinar. This is why the Health Insurance Institute insists on paying mandatory health insurance to obtain a health book. But the problem is these payments, fees, sick leave, child support. It is the same in Article 17, when it comes to exercising the right to a child's allowance. I fight for the villages because it's a special example. I'm talking about the villages of Majdanpek. I brought the ticket. I'll connect it to the social services later. It goes from an altitude of 70 meters, a road along the Danube, to 800 meters above sea level, meaning, the need to equip the service, and later I will return to explain it in more detail, and the possibility of leaving, given the place and importance of the social service, in terms of creating conditions and achieving the rights of that social protection. The other day, I said, I came from a village where my family, next to my parents, had eight household members: six brothers and two sisters. There were a lot of the same cases in the Todorovic families. As a child grew up, schooled, left the village, left the village. That village is a wasteland today. There's no house. However, it is on the ground where a civil war was waged in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where Muslims had the majority and, practically, the village was burned down, there is no household in the village. If we continue with this policy, the villages around Majdanpek will be displaced. I mention the surroundings of Majdanpek, it's different from the surroundings of Negotin, Stig, Pomorava, Shumadi, because these are rich villages, the fertile plain, whatever you throw away, gives birth. In these villages, that's not the case. They all lived off the industry that has now stopped working. It is a very difficult material position for these people, where there are still certain families – young people make marriages, give birth to children, but they have no material opportunities to raise those children, school and create living conditions for them. There go all those who can go, but there's plenty left where they don't have anywhere. It happened to me, doing this political job on the ground, telling me the host, who at the age of, that he fell off the tractor, said – I almost got hurt, I thought I could still drive, the kids went to Italy, they took the kids, I stayed alone, I closed everything, I didn't have a chicken, I didn't have a pig, I didn't have a chicken, I didn't have anything, I thought I could do anything, I went through it, and I almost died. So our villages in that part remained unsettled. I call on all those who have opportunities and strengths, especially the Ministry and the State, to help villages in the Majdanpek municipality, especially the Centre for Social Labour, because they do not have a field vehicle, they do not have any computers. The NGOs, they provided it, there's a dozen NGOs in Majdanpek, they all got from American, or I don't know which NGOs, some computers, they all took it home. There are enthusiasts there, professional people who are placed on this or some other political line, but material conditions, space, technical, vehicle, computers, have no – no working conditions. I talked a few times. (Zoran Krasic from the site: What does this have to do with this law? There is, because it is about social support for children, families, especially villages, I insist that villages be visited. I'll leave you this map, there's a lot of data -- and the number of households, the number of inhabitants. Majdanpek municipality has close to 10,000 inhabitants less than before two lists; it is leaving, moving; all villages will remain empty, displaced. The pressure is on the cities, there's no job opportunities in the city. I don't know what was harder - to lose a job in the city, to have an apartment with four walls and no chance to survive, or in the village to have a small garden, so you have the opportunity to do something, with someone's help, etc. I don't know where it's harder. I think villages are in those poor parts, where the country's poor quality is, where there's no possibility of income from agriculture, where income from agriculture is one dinar, in the most difficult situation. So please, Majdanpek is not far from here, and you have mileage, altitude, how many other places are away from Majdanpek, send someone in charge of the ministry to visit and intervene and to help those people who are in a difficult material situation. That there is no discrimination, if it works – then it has the right to a child's allowance, to everything else, and if it does not work, it does not. A large number of people today are not working and are not in a position to come and make something of what the state, under this law, is offering. In that sense, the law makes great discrimination. It needs to be corrected in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23956	I thank you, Mr. Todorovic. The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word, and then the Messenger Ivan Radić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23957	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the congregation's majority has once again tried to bring together more important topics into a principle debate, no matter what there is much to say about each topic. In short, four proposals, two ministers, none of whom are present in the hall at the moment. Mladjan Dinkic offers us two public debt laws to make up for pensioners, both for those paid out of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, and for those who receive so-called. agricultural pensions, previous-term debts. Unfortunately, the budget revenues from which a significant part of pension payments is drawn are based on soulless taxation of everything and everything; under the VAT company, taxis, contributions, excise and fines – huge amounts of money are being poured into the government register. But who do you take it from? It's from these pensioners, from working poor salaries, peasants, small entrepreneurs, craftsmen, students, students, patients, etc. Do you have a record of how many companies in Serbia are shut down monthly? It's too much, and this much pressure can't take it. One tax collector's mistake costs a taxpayer 100,000 dinars, and that's enough to drive him into bankruptcy. Instead of having an inflow of funds from companies operating and producing in Serbia, the situation is opposite for us. It is no accident that the assembly's majority has combined agenda points, whose proposal, in front of the government, Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic and the social protection and financial support points of the family with children, as it is precisely the policy of the current government that will lead us to the whole of Serbia soon to come under the work of Minister Lalovic as a single social case. As for the draft law amending and supplementing the Social Protection and Social Security Act, it is indisputable that the state faces this problem long ago. Invalid, who needs other people's help and care is a lot. In your explanation, you stated that 50,000 people use the right to supplement, which is, above all, disabled and, also, 20,000 people through local social institutions. They thus support themselves by receiving help and care for others. The supplement is usually spent in a family where a disabled person lives for the survival of the household rather than replacing the needs of the disabled person himself. Of course, there are abuses somewhere, but these are failures that can only be solved in direct control on the ground. To implement this law, or its application, you need funds, as you have stated here, of 664 million 992 thousand dinars. If you do not receive these funds from the generous finance minister, I wonder how you will respect the provisions of this legislative proposal, which provided for an increase in the assistance and care of the other person. All you have left is to sharpen the criteria and eventually narrow down the list of users of the supplements, but it will go to the detriment of this significant group, and I would say the most indisputable in our society. A number of people with disabilities, peacetime and wartime people, although having a significant degree of disability, want to work on jobs that can be provided by municipal administrations and local public enterprises, and above all think about appropriate jobs, their disability, such as reception services, telephone operators, couriers, etc. This is, first of all, the problem of disabled persons who are often discriminated against and I think that in the congregation procedure is exactly the law that will cover this issue. I want to make it clear that in Serbia, around 3,800 people currently work with a high percentage of physical damage, but their status, unfortunately, depends on the mercy of local officials and directors of public enterprises. Another law in the domain of social protection concerns children, i.e. the problem of reducing the birth rate that threatens to contribute significantly to the reduction and disappearance of the Serbian nation from these areas in half a century. Experts have long warned of the white plague in Serbia. The number of newborns and deaths is much disproportionate, for the sake of the dead. Every year, Serbia loses one city of 30,000 people, such as Turkey. It is also insufficient that the ministry's resorient ministry is trying to incentivize parents to the care of more children through petty cosmetic changes. A difficult economic situation in Serbia, a extinguished economy, robbery privatisation and a large number of fired workers directly reflected the number of newborn children in Serbia. The five-eyed criminal adventure cost Serbia dearly, and that is what is felt in all spheres of life today. Village schools across Serbia are slowly becoming desolate. Up until just 20 years ago, the department was numbering 20, 25, 30 founders, and today it's only four or five. It's almost everywhere in Serbia. The destroyed agriculture no longer gives anyone an alibi to stay in the country to live, and only the situation in agriculture will worsen by introducing EU standards, limited quotas in agricultural production and what is the worst, unlimited imports of agricultural products at significantly lower prices, and finally destroying the village. This ministry can only be involved in the short term in solving this problem. It is the government that is under obligation, due to the survival of the nation, to form a long-term strategy for increasing the birth rate in Serbia. The children's and parents' allowance so far are the only way to achieve some kind of financial stimulant to raise children. When it comes to the child's supplement, some solutions, as provided for in Article 5, directly exclude families with children from exercising their right to a child's allowance. This article can be damaged by those parents who are unemployed and have eight, ten or more hectares of land that are not processed, which are, for example, degraded forests, chicars, meadows, etc. of which they do not make any income due to the quality of the land itself. These parents will not be able to exercise their right to a child’s allowance because of this condition that does not bring them any revenue. This is certainly better than the previous legal solution, where this applied to a hectare per member of the family. The most realistic thing would be to delete this restriction and to refer in the final version to two hectares, but exclusively to farmland, since the word – it is not processed in the text of this article. Article 11 refers to the right to obtain a parental allowance for the first, second, third and fourth children. The SRS parliamentary group has tried by amendment to regulate this right that should apply to both parents differently. With this solution, as proposed in Article 11, almost exclusively the right to a parental allowance is given to the mother, while only a few situations are left to the father when he can exercise the right to a parental allowance. I'm going to set an example of mothers who don't have SCG citizenship, and here they have children, as well as issues with papers and papers from citizenship, intentional obstruction and non-issue of documents, such as from the Republic of Croatia, they cannot marry and thus gain citizenship. The father of a child, because of such a legal solution, cannot exercise the right to a parental supplement, even though he lives in an out-of-marriage community with the mother of a child. A parenting allowance belongs to a child and it doesn't matter who raises him for a child, provided that parents live in a community. You should accept this amendment, and Section 5, which speaks of the right of a child's father, should be deleted. In the end, the problem of paying off the parental allowance. Turns out you're going to be taking retirement routes, and then after a while, some war's gonna start late. Harmonisation every six months, just like pensions, will in an elegant way cover up what inflation will be worth for this period of two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23958	The word is made by MP Ivan Radic, and the time for discussion is four minutes. Here you go. If there's no Markovic, then we'll take a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23959	Since there are four draft laws in the package, and I have little time left, I won't stay too long on the first set of public debt laws. I think my predecessors have said enough and that these proposals are actually denied pensioners, both those who were formerly employed and agricultural pensioners. They will certainly feel it through the application of this law. However, what I would refer to here is, above all, the law on amendments and additions to the Financial Support Act for the family with children. In fact, this bill redefines the parental supplement. The newspaper compared to this current law is that the parental allowance covers the firstborn child, as well as the payment for the second, third and fourth births is made not by a single payment, but by 24 months of war. We can argue about this, and there are various opinions, Kaklaika and those who need to use these benefits, as well as experts in this area. What's better for the family, whether it's a one-time payment, which is certainly not small for today's moment where we live, or maybe it's more bearable and better for a family with children to have a certain period of time, and this is about two years, there's just as much a stable source of funding, no matter what the funds are. I'm saying, it's really been a controversy, and I think it's hard to tell what's best, what's best for families with children, so there's not much to talk about. What the SRS insists on is an accent on a firstborn and a third-born child. Why? I think we can give the answer in just two words: the white plague. It's a vicious disease that has affected our society. Why should a special accent be placed on a firstborn child? I'm going to go back 30-40 years and try to make some of the trends that have ruled in our society. For example, in the 1970s, the trend was that the average Serbian family had two children, which in some ways maintained the balance between birth and mortality. The following came in the 1990s, which were quite difficult for both the state and the people. There we had another trend – that families were mostly, as statistics say, identifying themselves to one child, which triggered this great wheel, called the white plague. The latest trend, these are in 2000, is that youngsters decide to marry later on. That's what gives this great point, called the white plague and what's a big problem, not just for our country, but, first of all, for a government that should deal with it a little bit more. We therefore believe that it is good that a parental supplement is introduced for the firstborn child, but in addition, we feel that it is necessary to return that former category, which is a compensation for newborn equipment, in order to further stimulate the birth of the first child. As for the third child, it's the first step towards countering the white plague. It's one logical thing. There, above all, should be the accent, because we need it, if we could establish such a rhythm that each Serbian family has three children, as the last estimates were made in public, for 10 years only to stop the white plague. Not to mention how long it takes to reverse this process. I don't think there's any need to say how important this is for the state, for its survival and existence, etc. Unfortunately, my time is running out. I had a lot to say, but I tried to say what was most important. I think we'll have a chance to talk more about this. In any case, the SRS is not very happy with these bill proposals, and it is unlikely that they will support them in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23960	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, and before concluding a principled joint search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right? No, I don't. ) I conclude a joint principled search on: Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of the commitments made by the Republic Fund for PIO employees under outstanding pensions and fines; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of the commitments of the Republic Fund for PIO farmers made on the basis of outstanding pensions and fines; Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Social Protection and Social Security of Citizens and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Financial Support to the Family with Children. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE HYPOTECA Law (principles) You have received the proposal for a law submitted by the Government. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of parliamentary groups. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposing official, Dr Milan Parivodic, minister of economic relations with abroad, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23961	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is my great pleasure again to present to you the Mortgage Law proposal, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has referred to you for consideration. It is a bill aimed at enabling an effective application of the mortgage institute, as a form of stock that is established on immovable property, so that this immovableity would be a security for the claim that the mortgage trustee gave to his mortgage debtor. The current mortgage solution, still the current solution, is in the Law on Fundamentals of Property and Legal Relations. That law has been well overcome. It is a fairly short law, a total of about 80 members, who are not fully regulated by property-legal relations in Serbia. If God does, I hope to stand before you with a new law on the basis of property-legal relations. However, what was now the most urgent issue for us, for the economy and for our citizens, was the quality of the mortgage institute, because the many needs of citizens were not met with the existing legal solution. The specific problems that arose were that the mortgaged immovableity was sold by the court by the so-called so-called. the principle of officiality. This principle of formality was aimed at ensuring that real estate was not sold below the price, by the creditors, but that the court by its authority and its neutral position, in fact, guaranteed that this property would be sold at market price, and that it would not be damaged by the trustee. However, this principle of formality in the practice of our courts and often in practice in parallel law has proved inadequate, because judges are not professionals in selling immovableity, it is not their job, their job is to judge. These sales took place through courts often ended at very low prices. It was precisely the results of this solution that led to the opposite effects of those expected when those solutions were made. That is why this principle of officiality has proved inadequate. Another problem we had was that you couldn't build a mortgage on an unfinished facility, on the so-called. building facility. You all know that before World War II there was a so-called World War II. the mortgage bank and that it provided credit lines based on the establishment of a mortgage on the building. The method, which proved to be very efficient, built a good part of Serbia, between the 20s and 40s, between the two wars. This system that exists now has made it impossible. Finally, we have a huge problem, and that's that our immovableities are not enlisted in mass. Under the present solution, this circumstance made it impossible for a mortgage to be established on such immovable property. What is necessary for the mortgage to exist is that there is a mortgage agreement - or there is a court mortgage, based on a court decision, but we are now primarily talking about a contractual mortgage - and a way to record the existence of that mortgage in some public register, in some public book available to everyone, so that the legal certainty of all persons who may want to buy that property, who wants to be in charge of the same immovable property owner, etc. It takes two aspects, so-called. justus title of contract and need this way of acquiring or modus adventurous, called form of publicity, that there is publicity, the principle of the public. That's what's mandatory. Everything else is not mandatory if these elements are satisfied. Just given this reasoning that we try to meet the needs of people to get credit, the trustee will give a much easier loan, if he has an efficient mortgage system, in which he can quickly settle his claim in case of default by the debtors, through the sale of mortgage immovable property. So, an efficient system of selling immovableities, with the protection of the interests of debtors on one side and on the other, to expand the immovableity fund on which a mortgage can be established, through the legal possibility that the mortgage is based on a building in construction and on a built building, but which is not registered, as well as on land on which there is property. This significantly extends the loan fund that can be used for the mortgage, in fact extending the number of citizens who will be able to get a loan from the bank and making sure that the bank will be able to collect the loan in case the debtor does not repay the debt. The current solution showed from bank practices that it takes three to five years to sell the immovableity of the court proceedings. We count, if our proposed solution is adopted, that the mortgage facility will be able to be sold within three to six months, which will be a very effective deadline and will be one of the most effective solutions in parallel European law. Also, this bill allows for a mortgage on the building and on an unregistered facility, by practically putting a mortgage note on the property on which the facility is located, and the freighter will record the mortgage on the non-recorded object. This solution, I admit, is not legally perfect, can be resented and I have thought deeply about it for weeks, but as long as we have a solution that meets on one side the great need of citizens, and it is unequivocal and I think we all agree on it, and on the other hand it allows a high degree of legal certainty, if these two pillars are satisfied, we have achieved our task. It's not our job to be imprisoned at all costs in legal terms if they are choking the needs of life, but to solve human problems through the law. I think this law will be very useful for the economy. We held a debate, I spoke with the Banks Association, with land-book courts, a disaster, and everyone supported the solutions as they are, i.e. They're legally enforceable. Those who need to register say they can do it, which was the most important thing for us. Bankers believe this will significantly help them in their work and will allow much more money to be paid back, as they will be sure that money will be returned. Finally, all of this is of the citizens' greatest interest, because we know how much our citizens lack money and I think that this law will significantly raise their credit potential, i.e. the ability to borrow and hence – the well-being of citizens. I thank you, and I ask for support for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23962	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23963	I am authorized, on behalf of the SRS, to state my position. We're not voting for this bill. I just have to find out that a government official has about hinted at a framework where he had some dilemmas, which is actually the basis of our disagreement. I'd go in a row. At the beginning of this debate, I'd like to inform the public that we have submitted 32 amendments. We divide these amendments into two groups. The first group is a group called the so-called group. principled and theoretical amendments, based on some theoretical knowledge, and another group, where we tried to inform the Government that there are other regulations which in some way regulate this matter or certain issues of this matter without any intervention in any of these laws, I am primarily referring to the Law on Bond Relations. You're doing some sort of intervention when it comes to the Law on Fundamentals of Property, because you're erasing from 30 and some member. What do I think is the most important thing to say in the beginning? I don't think we agree with the definition of mortgage. You probably could've noticed, I think it's Article 2, you've titled it as a notion of mortgage. We have submitted one amendment and the difference is seen in the fact that in defining the mortgage we are leaving only one contractual party's rights and obligations, compared to what you suggest here is a kind of mix, where in some way the rights and obligations of both parties are defined. I think our definition is much more precise and points to the very essence of that kind of hostage right. It's a principled difference. The other difference is, it's that group of theoretical objections, we don't know what the subject of a mortgage is. We have suggested that you call this member - a pawned good. The subject of mortgages can't be things, even if it's immobility in this particular case, but property rights that arise from things, and that's where we look at the principle difference between us. The mortgage is the right of a hostage trustee that if he does not settle his debt from the debtor, he has the right to settle his claim from the value of the immovable property, which goes for sale. The publishing facility is a real estate, something that exists. For the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will point out that the immovableity - land, building facility - is the end. You are here, Mr. Minister, since you are in that area, so you absolutely understand each of these terms I use, you called the pawnery the subject of a mortgage, and you use two synonyms in brackets – object or immobility. There's a basic mistake. The subject of a mortgage, according to what is used in property and bonds, can be a right that has a face to a thing, because, after all, property is a set of property rights. In the jargon, when we say - property, we list moving and immovable things on which there are property rights. I say what the jargon says, but you understand what it's about. If that is so by definition, and I think that this opinion is shared by all those who have completed the second year of law school, then it is probably clear that the immovable thing is a hostage facility or a mortgage facility, but the subject of a mortgage – can't, it's a completely inadequate term. You can give him some meaning, but it's a matter of consensus, it's not a question of theory. I don't argue that some authors use that term, but why am I saying this? Because there are some principles less or more than Roman law that define mortgages. The first and the basic principle, or principle, is accesoracy. It is probably the second principle, which has existed since the beginning – the principle of officiality. He's been around for twenty and a few centuries. I don't argue that German theory began to change that principle a hundred years ago, but I'm telling you that it's something that defines a mortgage as a pawn's right to real estate. Our biggest regret, which you will hear about the amendment, at least when it comes to these introductory members you have covered, with a chapter – basic provisions and the creation of a mortgage, that is this second part, primarily based on a violation of a principle that is fundamental to the right of mortgage, which is the principle of speciality. Hostage law covers individual and individual matters. You have even future rights here, not things. We will explain this in more detail in the amendment to Article 3. It's a bill of law. I'm sorry, please, these future rights can't be the subject of a mortgage or a publishing facility by your terminology, because they're not real estate. So we have a physical reason, it's contrary to physics. We have the principle of indivisibility. You in several members deny the existence of that principle. It's another thing when the motion isn't divided, so every part of it is a new particle and a new continent, but here you're giving, and as a pawn object you treat an ideal part of the property's right to immobilization. That's impossible. (Milan Parivodić, from the place: It is a notorious thing. You can sell, you can pawn. That's impossible. Maybe it's notorna in Holland. Excuse me, please, you'll explain that. So you violated the principle of indivisibility with the whole bill. In some places you question the principle of priority, and you're misreading publicity, or you're putting in us a solution that doesn't slow down to mean public access through this agency, but I'm asking a question: what about land books, what about the authority of a court that runs land books? Why did you turn him off? Where is he? Since these are principled remarks, we will discuss this much more concretely with regard to our amendments. We'll make it, Minister, to convince you. As far as we're concerned, we don't argue that this matter is important and should be regulated. But I'd only draw your attention to some things you may have forgotten, and they've been very interesting in the past 20 years. Let me remind you, about 15 years ago, a law was passed, which is about, not to enter the name now, aimed at contaminating land books and catastras into a future common... ( unique records, central immovableity register) Yes, it is. Why? The idea was, because it was easy to see, the cadastre is leading the immovableity, the court leads the rights to immovable property, the ownership of the inventory burden, and so on. It was seen that there was a discrepancy, that official state records essentially made it impossible to carry out many things, including mortgages. Now, if you look at the land books of some courts, where there's this system, because we have the Tapi system, that's something else, where the land-book system is, you can notice that the entire settlements are neither listed, nor can they be typed, because previously, the work that was meant to end the cadastre and the municipality is not finished. Then came many institutions that wanted to end it in preparation for the privatisation of the housing fund. It was then said that it took over 300 million marks to bring these records together and to start with that unique record, that there was no problem in bringing them into line with both the factual and the legal situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23964	Excuse me, are you using another ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23965	Of course, I'm sorry, Mr. President, I'm using another ten minutes. What happened, the sanctions, the blockades and so on. I guess that job couldn't even be done, there was no means for that technical part of the job to be done. I don't want to talk about "e" books, that's a different story. In 2001, when big investment was announced abroad, the government of Zoran Djindjic agreed on a study on how to deal with the problem, but first of all, from the point of view and because of the need for a mortgage, to edit it in a unique manner. None of it's been done. A little bold, the courts started to sign mortgages, and it stopped. In order to have a good mortgage law, it is necessary, as a previous question, unfortunately, as a previous question, to settle the issue of the immovableity of the public register. I'm not prejudged the solution, whether it'll be a court, whether it'll all be united in a catastrophe, I'm not getting into these things at all. But until it's settled, there's practically nothing to do when it comes to territory, immovableity, land or an object that doesn't exist in public books. You're trying to overcome that problem with a hybrid. If you're going to do this and if you're proposing a central record and you're putting it all in the Agency for Business Registers, because there's also publishing rights to moving things and business records, and so on, then you have to do some interventions to the cataster and to the land books. Wait, you can work, not slow it down, but let me tell you one thing. If you're going to that variant, then you're making an even bigger mistake. You will bring total chaos into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. We don't have much luck with these regulations applied by this business registry agency, you know. There's been talk that in two days it'll all be over, so I'm not going to bid on the time it ends, I'm not going to bid on why this new type of enrollment creates some new disputes. We have new disputes over the agency's business, and we also have a situation to ask the Supreme Court to interpret the law, so that the Agency and the Trade Courts know what to do and how to do. Total chaos. It's mine to say it's chaos, and it's yours to say it's ideal. Those who follow, they'll say. They will say either Krasic is lying or Parivodić is lying. These are questions where there's no between. Of course, no one's going to say Albianic is telling the truth, you know that. You're saying this principle of officiality has created great problems with us. The problem is in court. You can't solve the problem this way. You see, here a year ago, Zoran Stojkovic swore that two hearings would end all cases, so he said, "We will now negotiate before the trial begins." Only those who taught judges how to negotiate took the money in the negotiation. Did that come back to life? It's not. And when you press the minister, he says, "Ow, shut up, some judges, and do not know that new laws have been passed." It's a very important principle of officiality, you'll agree. It is given to protect the owner of an immovable property whose immovableity is sold, but it is very important. Furthermore, it appears that mortgages are built and mortgages are mortgaged. You have to say -- if you're using, I agree with you, between 20 and 35, the mortgage bank was a strong bank, a basis for construction, etc. Now we don't create conditions for such a bank and such a way to succeed. If you think by this law you're going to create conditions for reviving the work of a mortgage bank, mortgage hostages, then I have to tell you, we've mixed up some things, we've mixed up the mortgage with securities of value, Mr. Minister. I remind you of the provision of your bill, where the mortgage ceases to be a waste of things. A future unbuilding thing that you say is immobility, and I'm saying it's not immobility and it can't be a stock facility, in our terms, especially where everything is ready for fraud, you know it yourself, bank officials, court officials, these are the findings of your bodies fighting corruption. Something like that won't do any good. Next - unregistered apartments, I agree. In the end, you shouldn't have said, Mr. Minister, that you didn't want to slave, or as you said, to be imprisoned and faithfully serve some legal principles, and that life goes the other way, that it goes on and that the legal principles stop your life. You know, a few days ago, I heard that you started some action in front of a state union court, where you're looking, journalists don't know, maybe they wrote wrong, probably an evaluation of a member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in order to determine that he was not in line with the Constitutional Charter. Since it's not in accordance with the Constitutional Charter, then we're supposed to be able to shut down state property and some other things, because that member is referring to these very issues, and that's where you took the wrong step. Minister, you're a doctor of legal science, you shouldn't have done it for your profession. Still, I'd prefer to practice legal principles, and why? They bring in as much legal security as possible. If you only cheat on what someone seems to be life, everything and everything can happen. Just to let you know, you're probably familiar with, in Western Europe, there's hardly a square centimeter of immovableity that's not burdened with a mortgage and that, by giving a mortgage, someone is providing funds and thus creating money. This can also work with them and give good results, because they have annual inflation one percent or one and a half percent, and when it's three percent, it's a unstable state. This year, you know how much inflation we have. I don't know what our legal certainty allows us to behave like this, and to you, I can say very reliably, anyone can present what life is. So, what are modern tendencies, I wouldn't recommend that you take everything at all costs. This country, which is going to divide some a little strange, is due to the unsettled immovableity of the countries in Europe that have the least burdened land mortgaged. What we've been through for the past 15 years and what's next for us in a few years, that's our cooperative value, that's our advantage, in terms of real national and state policies. Just to remind you, you may not be in the process of a particular case, one bank has mortgaged on the assets of the "Brothers" and tried to implement that mortgage according to your criteria, so that it would be legal, however, thank God, someone from the Republic of Serbia's Property Directorate remembered to stop it, because the corrupt business of Nebojsa Covic, Orlic and others, who would like to sell out the property at any cost, and to take over the mortgage, carry out their own form of privatisation. You probably didn't take care of that. So you'd better withdraw this bill and let's go in natural order, how do we fix these things? So the first is a record of immovableity, at least legally, and then let's start with these other affairs, with that, just to warn you, the right to rights and claims, Mr. Minister, has already been regulated by the Law on Bond Relations. In some provisions, you have regulated the right to rights and claims in a different way than the Law on Bond Relations, through a mortgage, in fact. The right to prevent construction, when it comes to city building land, for your information, no longer exists.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23966	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that by the beginning, until the opening of the search, the application for a word in writing, with the order of Members of Parliament, have been submitted by MPs: G17 plus, SRS, DSS. There are ten registered speakers. The First Messenger of the people is Milka Silaev, I give her my word. Let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Vojislav Milajić, and the messenger of the people, Heliana Dragojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23967	Dear President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, here is an interesting law that will allow our economy to begin to gain some cooperative advantages from the economy of developed countries. It's interesting what this mortgage bill brings. As you know, the mortgage is a right to real estate authorised by the trustee that, if the debtor does not pay off the debt within the maturity or if there is another breach of the bond relationship between the debtor and the trustee, he requires the payment of the claim, secured by a mortgage from the value of the mortgaged immovableity. Hypothetical lending is one of the pillars of the credit system of developed countries and businesses and all developed economies. There's almost no family in the West and America that's not on loan and which is normally well secured by mortgage. The average duty of the American population, every resident, is $18,000. Almost in "Economist" I read the data, how valid it is already the responsibility of the list, I am just passing it on, Slovenians have a duty per capita of around 650 euros. We are not happy, which gives us the chance to make progress in this way and to achieve material goods in this way. The owners of companies in the same countries use the mortgage as the most legitimate form of security when entering a debt-confidential relationship of greater monetary value. In Serbia, mortgaged immovableity is a very problematic act. The first question that arises is whether the building that is placed under mortgage is inscribed? You had a chance to face that problem. If you meet the requirements, there is an estimate, so the mortgage must, at its value, exceed the value of the money the mortgage covers two or three times. For example, the economic practice of developed countries says the mortgage must be 20% more valuable than the claims it covers, so much is the cost of carrying out the mortgage, at the relevant profit rate. We don't have a developed mortgage market, so that's where this kind of disparity comes from. The mortgage is a real sea for small and medium-sized enterprises. Neretko, what can be a mortgage is not owned by a company, but owned by a personal property. Banks are one way of assessing the company's personal property. What is the biggest newspaper is that the mortgage according to the normative solution, whose adoption is expected, can also be established on the immovable property or parts of the immovable property that have not yet been built. Thus, families will be able to obtain loans for construction of houses or apartments that have not yet been booked, and they will not have to pawn another property. This rule applies to both family houses and apartments, which means that the facility is mortgaged before the end, and the rest of the work is financed by a loan that is covered by a mortgage over unfinished real estate. This will certainly make it easier for investors, who have been too often in a situation to step down because of lack of financial resources. Thus, the period of realization of the mortgage is shortened. The mortgage shall be treated as an executive document and, in accordance with the Implementing Procedure Act, its treatment shall be changed. A significant newspaper is also the possibility of extrajudicial settlement, avoiding litigation, the judicial authority and the parties themselves are passing significantly cheaper. Finally, there is a central mortgage record, which will represent a sort of database, into which mortgages are entered in the central immobility register, to search and collect information on mortgages. The central mortgage records will be kept by the Agency for the Economic Register and its information and data will be made available to everyone. What are the rights and obligations? The owner of the property certainly restricted his rights by mortgage. The mortgage is a kind of capital price he pays, but that doesn't mean he's in some relationship co-opted with the trustee. Thus, the owner has the right to use the subject of the mortgage, to collect natural fruits, to rent it, and to behave in accordance with good business practices. Any change in the physical shape of the facility, such as upgrade, demolition, deob, can be done with the written consent of the trustee. On the other hand, the trustee has broad rights. In addition to giving consent to any capital change on the facility, there is also the right to enter the immovableity whenever it wants, regardless of who is in that immovableity. He may request additional guarantees from the debtor, if he suspects the value of mortgaged immovableity has been reduced by the debtor's behaviour. If this one refuses, he can get permission from the court to suspend further immobilization. The cost of reducing the immovableity is borne by the owner of the mortgage property. It's interestingly arranged and the Institute of Transfers of Rights and Obligations. The trustee may grant his claim to the other, by not obliging himself to inform the owner. He can claim his mortgage right to another trustee. In this way there is a relationship between a mortgage and an over-hypothecary trustee. A special story is just calming down, i.e. the realization of the mortgage. The law writer has committed to carrying out the short procedure, which, as a rule, should lead to an expected credit and construction boom. The trustee is made up of mortgage immovableity, regardless of whose property it is located. He can choose ways to settle. It may require that the settlement be made from mortgage mobility and part from the rest of the debt assets. He can settle his claim even after the limitation of the deadline of the claim and from the secured immovableity. In this way, the mortgage law becomes a powerful weapon in the hands of the creditors, which rightly becomes adequately protected. This is a major change in our society, given the current practice that the debtor was more protected than the creditors. You know we had a debt lobby in the state and that was used a lot. The Institute of Non-Court Alignment is certainly an interesting compromise between the two sides, whose mortgage claim, in fact, was not the happiest ending. In this extrajudicial alignment, all parties can dispute the factual situation and propose a solution. If no agreement is reached, it shall be accessible to the sale of immovable property. The whole procedure of this business is prescribed by law. The very termination of the mortgage is possible in several ways, first of all, by the judicial sale of the facility, but also by the destruction of the facility itself. The mortgage itself can stop if it is located in a place of general interest, so the expropriation itself is extinguished by a mortgage relationship. The mortgage also ends with an out-of-court settlement, as well as a written statement by the creditors, which gives up his rights under the mortgage agreement. The importance of the new mortgage law for the Serbian economy is immeasurable, especially because of the fact that the previous solution was not in the spirit of modern economic and financial flows. He simply didn't protect the trustee, there was a so-called. Debt lobby. A new solution should allow for a better position of creditors, protection of debtors, acceleration of investment in the economy, especially housing, which is very important for this moment in our economy, but also for the development of publishing rights in our case-law. It's just about court practice and depending on the effect of this law. We have often witnessed that judicial solutions have been made so that they are not executed or realized. This law will enable society to function more effectively in general. This institution is as old as human society. The G17 will support this bill, and hopefully the rest of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23968	Thank you, Mrs. Silaev. The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word, then the People's Messenger Heliana Dragojevic, and the People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica. Here you go, Mr. Milajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23969	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for this law cited the reasons why he came out with a law like this before the Serbian Parliament. He stated a few reasons, among other things, that this law increases the credit capacity of citizens and businesses, facilitates the realization of the mortgage, puts a mortgage truster in a more favourable position, from the position he had so far in the realization of the mortgage, and that it will enable citizens and businesses to reach relatively cheaper loans, with lower interest rates, as banks will have the interest to give credit for the security of the collection and realization of the mortgage unless mortgage debtors meet their obligations. In the light of this law, among other things, it is stated that the regulations governing the matter of the entry of real rights into land books and the management of cadastras are quite complicated. Their change, harmonizing with the new needs of society, would take a lot of time and a lot of money, which is true. In some ways, we can accept that the mortgage debtor, according to the solutions so far, was overprotected and that the realization of the mortgage itself was long lasting. However, we cannot agree that this will lead to the cost of the loan and the drop in interest rates, because we believe that it will be easy to build mortgage relations between the mortgage trustee and the mortgage debtor to make it easier for citizens to reach out for loans. A great demand for loans will certainly lead to a rise in interest. On the other hand, there are assurances that the state's fiscal and monetary policy measures will intervene and curb the growth of interest rates. Practice will show who's right, whether those of us who claim that there will be an interest hike due to a high demand for loans or a proposing that claims to fall interest rates. The problem that is related to the record and recording of all real rights and immovableity exists, it is huge and does not date from a recent date. He's a decades-old problem. Something more objective is nature because there were more systems in the former SFRY, recording immovableity and real rights over them. There was no compatible or unique recording system, but there were more of these systems. No reform has been implemented in the field of registration and real rights until the end of the country. This problem has gone through today, and subjectively there has been the responsibility of the previous government - DOS government, because as far as I know, in 2001 even some donations from abroad have been made to take care of land books or systems that we accept, the records of immovable property and real rights based on these immovableities, precisely because foreign investors, foreign banks, have legal certainty in investing and investing money in our economy. This job for unknown reasons was not even started, and it seems to me that the money arrived in 2001 in our country, but in some magical way it disappeared. As for the objections of the SRS, they could settle into several groups. My former colleague, Zoran Krasic, spoke about defining the concepts in this law, the cases and the purpose of the law, the concept and subject matter of the mortgage. I'd just like to refer to the fact that legal theory and practice know the mortgage as a pawn's right to real estate. It contained absolutely everything about the concept of a mortgage. The proposal for this law extends the notion of mortgage beyond what is considered a traditional concept or legal science under the notion of immovableity. So it goes and puts into the subject of a mortgage – right to land, right to build and to prevent construction, rights that can't be in legal theory or in practice the subject of a mortgage. Point 6 of Article 3 leaves the possibility of mortgageing buildings in construction. It's some future immovableity, so we could define it as a future immovableity. It's an uncertain circumstance whether this immobility will arise someday. Someone can build an object, an apartment, a house, a building – business or housing, but that doesn't mean he's going to finish it. It's the risk of both trustees and many others. It is not only about the rights of those who invest, trustees and debtors' obligations, but there are public rights and general public interests to build a building, especially as it is on city building land, and when it is built, it means that the state has an interest in ending it, whether it is a residential facility, business or any other kind. We think it can't be the subject of a mortgage, because it's a future immovableity that's extremely uncertain, whether it's going to be or not. Also, Article 4 mentions a new concept: a multiple mortgage, and this is a joint mortgage, where a mortgage can be burdened by more immovableity. It's a legal theory that knows that the law puts the term - multiple, and now, which is why I don't know exactly, it's probably synonyms - common, multiple. Also, Article 13 mentions the futility of the provisions of the mortgage agreement and the reasons for futility are given. It is good that there is a fixed or predetermined movement in point 2). Such a provision would be nothing. But that idea doesn't work, that thread goes through the whole law, so we have four members that we could say are contrary to the idea of nothingness, which we support as a party. This applies to members: 27, 35, 37 and 49. Article 27 refers to subsequent contracts, where point (1) states that a partial or full transfer of property rights, i.e. another real right on the subject of a mortgage, to the trustee, can be contracted instead of the fulfillment of the debt. The members of 35 and 37 refer to the transfer of property rights to a mortgage trustee through auction sales and Article 49, and I think it regulates the way the mortgage ends when the immovableity moves into the ownership of a mortgage trustee, and thus ceases the mortgage. We're in the view that a mortgage trustee should not be involved, nor should he acquire property based on a mortgage. The mortgage, as an accessory contract, is tied exclusively to the main claim. So, the mortgage, the mortgage contract, it can't exist on its own, and it's tied to the main claim. A mortgage trustee should not be allowed to gain property in this way. I'll explain briefly, which is why it's not good. Right here, in article 27 of the subsequent contracts, it is decidedly said that property rights can be transferred and that this will end the mortgage debtor's obligation. There is a great danger that can occur in practice, which is seemingly or simulated contracts and other types of dangers, which is the appearance of green contracts. These two types of contracts, as prohibited types of contracts, regulate the Liabilities Act, Article 66. Also, it regulates both simulated or virtual contracts and green contracts, that's Article 141. The bond law. These are situations where the parties cover up some contractual relationship by concluding some other contract. This would leave room and the possibility of buying or contracts under pressure, or using a difficult material situation of debtors or his laxity, or some of his difficult position, can be used objectively and that, through the realization of such mortgages, there is a huge difference between mutual givings and that there is an enormous benefit that a mortgage trustee at the expense of this kind of acquisition of property could achieve in practice. This can be a very common phenomenon in practice, not isolated cases, but a common phenomenon, where other legal affairs would be covered up behind this kind of property acquisition. The last principled remark refers to recording, central mortgage records. In Europe, there are two systems, a French system of transcription, somewhere from the half of the 19th century, or a system of personal foils, where real rights stickers have made contracts with an authorised state authority and made enrolment by the register of owners or holders of certain real rights. The second is the German-Austrian system, which has largely accepted our country, or a system of land books that is run across the catastrophe. So the land books are tied to the cadastre and the diameter of the cadastre, which is much more precise and accurate. It may be slower, but it gives more legal certainty. There was another idea after World War I, the Geodetic Association, to keep a unique record of the catastra, the diameter of the practical situation on the ground, and also the legal state, what land books find, real rights entered in land books. To be the one to guide both the diameter and the real rights that are related to these immovableities. Basically, it's not a bad idea, and it's a shame it didn't go into that reform back then, because we'd probably have a much cleaner situation now than today. Since there are different systems of keeping these records, there is a huge difference between what is the actual state that exists in the cataster and what is in the land books, as the legal state of immovableity, we have entire settlements, entire blocks of buildings that are still being run as orchards, fields in land books, and catasters have recorded residential, business buildings or other commercial buildings. There's a huge difference. Now it's time to coordinate that practical state with the legal situation. Here, the promoter saw that it was a huge job – to equate effectively with the legal situation, and he resorted to one shortcut to avoid all these problems, by forming a central record to be run by the Agency for Business Registers. So, the new body that's been excluded from the cadastras, but it's going to have to use catastra data, and it's excluded from the land books that are being held in court, but it's still going to have to work with the land-book court, because of the data they have. That'll create a lot of confusion. (Milan Parivodić, from the scene: we will resolve it with amendments. ) The SRS was heading in that direction, and I see that a colleague from the DSS also went in that direction, that it would be the one who will keep the entire mortgage records. In fact, it should take over the leadership of these other real rights that are related to immovableity, of course, over time, it can't all be implemented at once. On that side, we intervened with our amendment, where we asked for the removal of those members who regulate the Agency's work. We think the law could have been better prepared, because matter is extremely serious, it concerns the ultimate line of all of us. Here, counterpart Krasic presented the information that we belong to that group of countries that are relatively low on mortgage debt. Here will open wide space to raise credit, to pawn their immovableities, both those off-booked, so, according to the bill, and future immovableities, means, buildings in construction. How it's going to work, the right to tell you, we have a strong suspicion that it's going to work out. I think that amendments to the SRS should be adopted, in order to improve this text and in general this matter, which is very serious and produces serious and legal and also practical consequences, both for those who lend loans and for those who take loans. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23970	Thank you, Mr. Milajic. The People's Messenger, Heliana Dragojevic, then the People's Messenger, Bozidar Koprivica, and Sreto Peric, the Messenger of the people. One notice. Amendments will most likely be discussed on Wednesday, because we will be working on the next item of the agenda today, and that is the choice and resolution of judicial holders, and tomorrow morning we will continue the debate in the principle of counter-guarantee law. Compared to that, let's schedule our obligations. Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Dragojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23971	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, there is a debate on the mortgage bill. In our positive mortgage law, as a pawn's right to real estate, it is governed by the Law on Fundamentals of Property and Legal Relations of 1980. The current regulations do not allow a comprehensive and comprehensive mortgage system. Since the mortgage is one of the basic mechanisms for the security of the claim, in particular those created on the basis of loans, or loans, it is necessary to adapt this legal institute in accordance with the most advanced comparative and international experiences and to provide a new legal framework which will in a comprehensive manner regulate legal relations regarding immovable property. In my presentation, I will refer to, in my opinion, the most significant solution that the proposed text of the law contains. In order to avoid confusion in application, Article 3 determines a very wide subject of mortgages. It is of particular importance that the subject of the mortgage may also be an object in construction. This will enable those who have no immovable property to provide mortgage credit, bet and immovable property for which credit is sought, which is significant for housing loans and credits to be built in the economy. There is a possibility that by mortgage, in order to provide the same claim, more real estates belonging to the same or different owners may be burdened. The bill sets out what the mortgage covers, as well as how to build a mortgage on the case in co-ownership or joint property. The demand is also wide-ranging. Any claim, including future or conditional claim, may be secured by a mortgage. The mortgage is made by enrolment in the competent immobility register, based on the contract provided for in the publishing statement, the law and the court decision. The legislator paid particular attention to the recording of the mortgage on the building facility. The mortgage agreement and the publishing statement, as set out in the draft law, may be concluded in the form of a credible document or executive document. There are certain elements that such documents must contain, as well as the registration of mortgages created in the immovableity register. Based on such a mortgage, it is possible, in the event that the debt is not paid for maturity, to quickly settle out of court, thus improving the position of the creditors. The rights and obligations of the immovable property owner shall be arranged to allow for the smooth exercise of the right that the owner has on the subject of the mortgage, but only within the limits within which the possibility of the mortgage trustee being settled. In particular, the draft law regulates the rules of settlement of creditors, while protecting the debtor and his property. The mortgage, as an accesory right, ceases to be printed from the Register in one of the prescribed ways, at the request of the debtor, owner or trustee. One of the most important newspapers is that the adoption of the proposed law will establish a central mortgage record, which will allow quick and centralised information on mortgages, increase legal security and investor confidence. The adoption of the proposed law will contribute and the emergence of new operators on the market and improve competition, above all on the money market; increase the activity of banks and other financial organisations; contribute to a gradual reduction of interest rates on loans and loans, which will also speed up and increase both domestic and foreign investment in the economy, primarily in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, which in the future will be the basis of local economic development in many areas. Finally, I would point out once again that the mortgage, if accesory law and the adoption of mortgage law, is intended not to burden the immovableity, but rather to speed up the conclusion of those contracts, loans and loans, to which the mortgage serves as a security mechanism. The DSS parliamentary group will support the proposed text of the law and I call on all other MPs to join us in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23972	The People's Messenger, Bozidar Koprivica, then the Messenger of the people Sreto Peric, then the Messenger of the people, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23973	Dear People's MPs, we have before us a mortgage law, it's an extremely important law that should be very important in every legal system, as well as in ours. However, the SRS has a large number of objections to this law, above all by definition. The mortgage is according to its legal definition of stock on immovable stuff, home, apartment, land and nothing else. As a form of security of claims by a mortgage immovableity, the trustee – the stockholder acquires the right to collect his claim in relation to other entries in the land books. So the mortgage has this significance which represents a burden on the immovableity that follows it regardless of whose hands she left. The objective of the mortgage is that the payment guarantee – the mortgage immovableity claim in case the debtor, when this claim has arrived, does not settle the obligation to the mortgage trustee. The mortgage should guarantee the collection of trustees, in particular banks, in a fast and efficient way, and I guarantee that if you adopt it this way, it will not provide, because there are a number of shortcomings, irregularities, so if the proposed solution does not change or improve the amendments to the SRS, it will indeed be a bad legal project. First of all, the proposed law should specify the concept of mortgages to the principles of hostage law, i.e. principles of accesority, officiality and indivisibility. The very notion of mortgage in the bill is imprecise, inexplicable and not in line with the principles of publishing law. The law required precision of the publishing facility, which is real estate, which is not done with this bill. Some members of the law are inaccurate, unspeakable, especially with regard to linguistic indetermination. For example, a multiple mortgage can associate that more mortgages are given on one immovable property, and in fact it's a joint mortgage. The notion of a mortgage not only is it not properly defined by the words "if there is a breach of the other obligation", I think it is in Article 2, Mr. Minister, causing confusion for the purpose of the mortgage, because it is not defined what other obligations are, so of course that attitude should be deleted, and Serbian radicals think that a complete Article 2 should be deleted. Many concepts are unnecessarily repeated, so they need to be deleted. The SRS believes that the mortgage on the ideal part is not possible, because the principle of indivisibility of the hostage facility does not allow the immobility to be treated in certain parts, but only as a whole, i.e. the possible mortgage is only on the entire immovableity. The right to immovableity and immovableity, as a publishing facility, are all different concepts. And on the property of a multiple-person mortgage can be based, according to the SRS, and thus should regulate the law, only with the consent of co-owners. The mortgage, in addition to the contract, of the publishing statement, on the basis of the laws and judgments, should also be able to arise by judicial alignment, or by the agreement of the parties, which is not proposed by this proposal, because the law on the executive procedure provided for it, but you had to provide for this law as well. The mortgage agreement is concluded in writing, with the signatures certified in court, because the court is the only one in charge of the overture of the signature, as stated by the Law on Transport of Immobility, so there is no other legal authority, as the proposal for this law states unequivocally and unequivocally. The mortgage can only follow the fate of an immovable thing, not the one who's currently using things. The SRS considers it necessary to specify more precisely the power of the executive document, which can only have a mortgage agreement and a publishing statement, drawn up in writing and certified in court, which here is not precise. Some of the solutions provided for in this proposal for a mortgage law are unnecessary. I think it's Article 20, where it's about the settlement of claims, and also about taking over debt, because these are areas regulated by the Law on Liabilities. I would also point out to Article 31, that it is completely inaccurate and does not specify when a second-degree organ is executed and whether an administrative dispute can be conducted against the final solution. Of course, all the lawyers who have graduated from law school know that any final solution can be governed by an administrative dispute, but then it should have been written in this law or said that this is a solution finally and that no administrative dispute can be held against it. However, the SRS believes that this is not a good solution and that any final solution must be allowed to lead the administrative dispute. In the end, there are some words, I don't know if it's a mistake or if it's ignorance. Let's just say, in the event of bankruptcy, I noticed, I guess the trustee has a distinct right, not exclusively, as it stands. There are many irregularities in this law and the SRS has invested a large number of amendments in order to fix it. I therefore appeal to you, honourable Members of the People, not to accept this law on the day of the vote, or to respect the amendments tabled by the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23974	The People's Messenger Sreto Peric has the word, and then the People's Messenger Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23975	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, speaking of the mortgage law, which the minister said in the opening statement was a great need, we can agree and the fact is that it is. But then it does not stand out what some fellow MPs said during the morning work that in Serbia honey and milk, if through this law, and its significance, as the minister said, it is evident in the reasons of the law, there is simply a need for such a law, so that legal and natural persons, i.e. economic operators in Serbia, can more quickly start their business activities and natural persons to solve some problems, such as, among other things, housing problems. Mr. Zoran Krasic spoke in detail about what the SRS could not agree with, above all, pointed out that these are principled reasons, and other reasons are purely technical and should be respected. It is about 20 amendments that, if accepted, would certainly give a good qualification to this law to be applicable and in practice achieve the effects that Serbian citizens expect and, of course, the minister, as a man who is authorized to defend this law in this high house and to point out what we disagree with at the beginning. Our idea is to do it first, which is absolutely safe and necessary, a record of immovableity, so that we don't have any confusion about it, and then this law could give its full effects and could be in practice much more applicable than it is today. It is said that faster lending will take place, that those who lend loans will be more secure and secure, that they will collect them, of course, along with interest, if there is a secured mortgage over it and that the state will influence its monetary and fiscal policy in such a way that these interest will be as little as possible. He probably will, he'll try, but logically, if we know that the market law is going to rule, it's expected that the interest rate in that case will be higher, because more interested users of these loans will appear and then automatically create a space for banks, which are giving these loans, to increase interest rates. In most cases, it will be foreign banks, and then we are justifiably afraid that foreign banks will become owners, because many mortgage debtors will not be in a position to pay their loans in a timely manner and return them, and then these foreign banks will become owners of a large part of the immovableity in Serbia. Surely it will open up a large debt space, and you have seen that the National Bank has made a recommendation and a suggestion to the citizens of Serbia to try to control the need for borrowing. In fact, the need to be in charge to survive exists and it is large, and it is on the other hand – of course there is not much to do with the minister who is sitting here – indicates that the government of the Republic of Serbia has not done in this current period what it was meant to do, the environment, to create conditions for work, employment and that the largest number of Serbian citizens can live on their quality and correct work, not that the government has failed in the past year and a half, two years, to try to enable Serbian citizens to live a better life through borrowing. That borrowing has to come back one day, and then we'll get into a situation where the nation is too indebted to us and we won't make it. You saw that the principled nature was a disagreement with this bill, and the minister said in his opening statement that he had this dilemma, and then he consulted and had his rich experience from that part. He consulted with some experts and experts and then decided to include in this bill the possibility of mortgages on unbuilt objects, i.e. immovable items. We disagree in that part, because we are practically giving something that may never be built, there will be no possibility of ending it, and we cannot take and borrow something that might practically not exist. How many such cases will be in practice, of course, time will show, but it should be kept in mind that this can happen. We will make concrete remarks to individual members of this law when we talk about amendments, and now I will briefly refer to Article 17(4). The bill, where it is said that the trustee has the right to access the immovable property, including entering the immovable property no matter who is in it and so on, that I am not reading this position to the end now. But in this position it is not explained, or it is not precisely determined, under which conditions someone who is a trustee has the right to enter these immovable premises, and it is known that the apartment is also an immovable property and that a mortgage can be placed on the apartment. Then there can be abuse in practice to avoid it. This should also be limited, under certain conditions, provided that the owner, i.e. the trustee, can enter certain premises, such as apartments and other immovableities.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23976	National Messenger Petar Jojic, and you will after the break.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23977	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the bill of law is contrary to the Law on Executive Procedure and to the Law on Bond Relations. Why? You have in the proposal for a law of a provision giving authority to a mortgage trustee to take certain measures to collect his claim, which are not regulated by the basic Implementing Procedure Act, and also by the Obligation Relations Act. As for the method of recording, the SRS has great objections, because it is known that we do not have an orderly land-book situation on immovable property, in particular we do not have an orderly situation in parts of the Republic, except where there are land books. In other parts of the Republic we have so-called Tapi system. The immovableity record is not arranged. When it comes to newly built housing or building facility, the bill does not specify in which degree the building facility should be built in order to establish the mortgage. The process of notifying sales was not well regulated by the application of the law. In practice, we'll have big problems. Why? We're going to have a problem because it's a bill that puts first-class law into a more favourable position as a trust lobby. The confidence lobby will take advantage of our people's troubles and a very difficult situation for citizens, especially when it comes to building apartments and houses. That's the point, that the bankers here will be rich, and the poor will be forced even into impasse to sell their real estate. Credits will go from one debtor to another, as a legal follower, and so we will have a situation, as we had until 2000, until we changed the Law on executive procedure, during which period it was in an extremely favourable position as a debt lobby. Now it's the other way around. Now we have another extreme, where trusts are protected at all costs. There will be green interest, and it will be easy for people to understand that by adopting this law, the Republic of Serbia has decided to help citizens easily reach their apartments and their houses. However, we will be in a situation where citizens, trusting the state and trustees -- you see ladies and gentlemen MPs, Mr. Minister, count the banks in Belgrade, you will see that nothing like mushrooms on every corner, we do not have any businesses dealing with production, and there is a problem, the banks will profit here – face major problems. We don't have an orderly land-book situation, a cadastrian state, we don't have an orderly record of floor ownership, and the basic property is huge in the Republic of Serbia. You have a land book in Belgrade and Vojvodina, but you don't have it in Uzica, the King and so on. So there's no record. The proposal for this law had to provide for the possibility to be charged through mortgages, i.e. mortgage creditors, could be charged, but in what procedure. This procedure, as provided for by this bill, is very risky. The further away from the Constitution and the basic laws, the more insecure it is for our citizens. What does that mean? If you do not give the debtor the opportunity to prove to the court whether the mortgage has been fully or partially executed, whether the subject matter of the mortgage has been sold or assessed by market value, or by the swelling of a court expert, without a court or court decision, everything is insecure. Powermakers have their own banks or trustees who are able to establish a mortgage in different ways, to give money to build buildings, either apartments, houses, certain investment facilities to businesses and so on, will be complicated, complex, insecure and very unreliable. Serbian radicals would by no means pass such a bill, it is a good intention, I'm not saying, but a good mortgage law should be passed that will cover the mortgage and will equally guarantee the rights of the debtor and also trustees. The trustees will be, I said earlier, the superfluous banks that will give credit, that's in the predominantly part of what I understand. At all costs, however, to give banks greater rights and to create opportunities for them and to benefit through the law, and to go to the harm of the debtors, is not fair. It is fair for both parties to be in a level playing field, to guarantee that the state guarantees the exercise of the right to the trustee and, at the same time, the debtor that his obligation can be recorded in the mortgage procedure, that the subject of the mortgage be assessed marketably, rather than roughly. This isn't good. If you leave a small possibility in the law, they'll apply it down in the field, and how, they'll hardly wait for you to leave them just a prominence, and that's what's called a legal cavity. We think it is good to pass the mortgage law, because the old Yugoslavia, Serbia, too, thinks it is necessary, but at the same time we think it should be passed as a good law. You see, we have law inflation, regulation inflation, and now the question is, before 5 October, did Serbia, i.e. the SRJ, have a harmonised right and its laws with the European countries and countries of the European Union? Yes, it is. I can tell you, from 30 to 2000, 12.5,000 regulations and laws were in line with European standards and European parallel law. We've got law inflation, there's a problem. You weren't, Mr. Minister, at the presentations of previous laws, which referred to social protection. You can think, I believe you won't agree with that, and we radicals in particular can't understand that it's possible, in one month, to pass a health care law, pensions, pension insurance, and now, in the same month, to demand his change and supplementation. Why? The time distances were not so much that it was necessary to bring changes and additions due to unpredictable circumstances. I could not say that the unpredictable circumstances, that the finance minister had forgotten or was not informed that there would be opportunities in the budget, that pensions must be paid to pensioners, the debt the state owes them in this month or next year. In a month's time, ask for a change and a supplement, it's no good. That's why we in the SRS think laws should be passed, but such laws should be applicable and long-term. Ladies and gentlemen, I am taking the opportunity not to mind the President of the Assembly, I am informing the citizens of Backa Palanca, Vojvodina and all of Serbia, that today at 1600 hours a large national rally will be held in Backo Palanca. I inform the citizens, let them come, the Serbian radicals are preparing for Sunday's elections, so let us be allowed and give us the right to call all voters, because we expect absolute victory, the citizens of Back of the Palanca deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23978	Thank you, Mr. Jojic, I won't blame you, on the contrary, everyone uses the means at his disposal, people get along, everything's fine. It's an hour's break, until 3:00, and then we get back to work. The People's Messenger Zoran Antić will have the word, and then the Messenger of the People, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, and the Messenger of the people, Natasa Jovanovic. Another announcement for MPs who follow through internal television and for those present, a session of the Privatisation Committee will be held today at 1400 hours, in the blue salon. Thank you. [[After break – 15.05.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, we will continue our work after the break. As we have announced, the first word has the People's Messenger Zoran Antić, then the People's Messenger Vjerica Radet, then the People's Messenger Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, Mr Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23980	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a mortgage law, a law which, by some miracle, was found in this assembly session, because based on what we had a chance a few weeks ago from Minister Mladjan Dinkic to hear, when it comes to the economic policy of the government, this law should not have been found in today's session, because it encourages personal consumption. In any case, it makes it impossible for the government's goal to reduce the inflation foreseen for the next year of 9%, which nobody believes in in this country. However, in any case, we expected the government to have a consistent economic policy, at least partially have a vision of where this country is headed and that Serbian citizens will live next year. Obviously, through this law that is in some way similar to the Lising Act, we can see what it will bring for the citizens of Serbia. The Lising Act, in the amount of debt taken by Serbian citizens, only about 10-15% goes into investment, and everything else goes to personal consumption, primarily to cars, and this law will also mean that Serbian citizens will advocate their apartments, raise loans that will also boost inflation through personal consumption and create a major problem for Serbia's entire economy. As for the reasons of this law, it seems to repeat itself from law to law, when it comes to the laws of the banking sector, above all, promises to invest, foreign and domestic investments. In this case, even the lower price of money on our market is being promised. Obviously, regardless of all the measures the government has taken in the previous period, this has not happened, and neither will this time, because the demand for loans is what determines the interest on the banking market. The fact is that the government lifted the checks about a year ago, that the citizens were left without being able to, in some ways, irrevocably owe themselves and were forced to take loans from the banks today under very unfavourable conditions. In any case, given the very poor economic policy, depending on these loans, and future demand for loans will be extremely high. As long as we don't regulate the labour market, as long as we have such a huge proportion between supply and demand, when it comes to the labour market, as long as we have such low economic growth, small economic activity, there's no reason to expect anything good. When it comes to loans, the interest will be large, regardless of this law. This law certainly won't change anything from that. I would completely agree with my colleagues that there is a lot of illogicalness in this law, some solutions and institutes that are inappropriate, which significantly favour trustees' rights, while neglecting the rights of debtors. As for the mortgage on unbuilt buildings, it was introduced into the law, I suppose, to cover up all the shortcomings of this law, in order to marketingly exploit the institute, in hopes that Serbian citizens will not recognise all the illogicalities and all the bad solutions this law offers. It is absolutely certain that the unbuilding facility is not fully defined and, as such, can hardly be the subject of a mortgage. Everything my predecessors said about the cataster and the land books, I think it's quite clear. The institute is obviously inconclusive, and given the poverty that the Serbian government has, thanks to the government's policy, there is no reason for banks to go into such risky jobs, when hundreds of thousands of citizens today are out of work and are in a position not to know how they will survive next month. Banks will certainly opt for those types of loans that are significantly less risky, so where facilities already exist – they will eventually go to these mortgages. When we talk about this relationship between debtors and creditors, I don't think that any law that has been passed in this assembly has humiliated this much, or put the debtors in the position that they are in the hands of the trustees, that they depend entirely on the creditors, and from the very beginning they are in a very difficult situation, because usually the amount of credit and mortgages being placed, based on that loan on immovableity, two to three times, which is quite inappropriate. This best shows the demand for financial resources in our country and the proportion between supply and demand for money. Definitely not a real estate market. As far as the mortgage market is concerned, it is likely that this law will bring it back to life and there will be opportunities for it to develop in some future period. But the fact is, we don't have a developed real estate market. We have a fact that neither the prices of apartments, houses, buildings are realistically defined. Especially the big problem with the price of land. It's an extremely low price of land. I think the basic reason for this law is precisely in the desire to buy land and housing of citizens at low prices, because this poor government policy favors manipulative capital and potential speculators, greenery in Serbia, which is increasingly spreading through individual legal solutions. A great promise from the promoters and the government, when it comes to the law, relative to entrepreneurship, to small and medium-sized enterprises. This does not fully fit the policy of the SRS. The desire of the SRS is to help the economy through as cheap loans as possible. It's the only way to get a cheaper product, a product that we can go to the foreign market, which is the only way to save our economy, as well as force credit through the Development Fund. Unfortunately, this government has a different opinion. These mortgage loans, which are offered in any case, are significantly more expensive. I'm afraid for a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises, it's going to be their end, because under such conditions, as prescribed by the law, there will be no chance that small and medium-sized enterprises will regain their obligations in time and within a reasonable period of time. There should be a few more institutes to point out. True, I'm not a lawyer, but I find it completely illogical that the claim can continue even after the limitation of the deadline of the claim. I didn't fully understand that institute. This shows in the best way that they favored the trustee, if they entered into a contractual relationship with each other, in any case, the credit institution had to know which facility and on which property was credited. I'm saying, he's usually twice the value of the property itself. There's no reason to further secure the remaining assets of the debtors. I think these are the two institutes that best show that this law is not done and balanced with the rights of debtors and creditors. As far as these areas are concerned, it is important that the government takes more serious efforts when it comes to legalising the facilities, because you know that we have begun. But a large number of objects are still not legalized. It is necessary to do a much more serious analysis and to recognize the reasons why this legalisation did not take place and that this law could essentially come into life in some future period. I'm sorry to finally have to say, it seems to me that this law essentially regulates the kidnapping of Serbian citizens' apartments and houses. He can only be in favour of banks and manipulative capital, not for the benefit of Serbian citizens, as Serbian citizens have been put into a bad economic policy to live from today to tomorrow. The law itself, in fact, is perhaps the height of this government's debauchery. Instead of trying to improve the social and economic position of citizens and allowing them to live decently from their work and their salaries, the government has been pushing them into a situation to sell their apartments and thus remain without what they have left of the assets they have not lost in the previous period since such a policy was implemented. In any case, the SRS won't vote for this bill. We advocate the adoption of a mortgage law that would be much more realistic, more appropriate to our situation, the interests of Serbian citizens, Serbian entrepreneurship, and that is not the law, in any case. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23981	Thank you, Mr Antic. The People's Messenger Vjerica Radet has the word, then the People's Messenger Nemanja Sarovic, and the People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23982	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft mortgage law we are talking about here today is neither epochal, nor revolutionary, as it tries to present itself in public and as it is Minister Parivodic, although not for this speaker, but much more these days in the media, tried to present to the citizens of Serbia. Here, however, he respected this parliament, and he obviously knows that the MPs, who will talk about this, his colleagues by profession, and that they can and that they want arguments to speak, so the minister himself made it clear that he is aware that this is not, as he said, a perfect law. Of course, I don't think he's anywhere near perfect. Why did I say this was neither epic nor revolutionary? Right, one of our colleagues said we haven't had mortgage laws in our legal system so far. That's right. This does not mean that there was no legal basis for recording mortgages on immovable property. It was, there is, and it is done today in Serbia, and it has been done years ago. There are problems why this is not effective, why every immovableity cannot be entered into a mortgage, which is the topic spoken of by Serbian radicals, which I will also talk about and which is certainly a burden on both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and you, Mr. Parivodic, I believe. This could have been solved in a completely different way. Published law, or publishing facility, is a registered immovableity. You just told Mr. Krasic you didn't think this way when he said it was like that. I'm telling you it is. There's a problem with a mortgage. We have land and book departments of courts and a cataclysm of immovableity, and these are houses and institutions in which public books are held and books of facilities on which mortgages can be entered. The problem that exists in Serbia, and I think everyone knows it, at least most, and especially citizens who face it, is that today in Serbia about 60% of the immovableity is unrecorded. I think you have that information, Minister, and that's true. Why is that? We don't need to register all the buildings built, along with a building permit, no new law, no new institution, to achieve the efficiency of the work of municipal courts, land and book departments of these courts. We need, probably, more judges who will do the job and we will talk after this and about the courts, and there will be an opportunity for your colleagues, Minister Stojkovic, to say that you are not guided by the idea of Mladjan Dinkic, your fellow minister, whose complete idea, when it comes to Serbia-the more he cancels, the more job cuts. This is not possible in some institutions, in particular, in the land and book departments of courts, if we want all property to be registered for a period of time. All of us who used to be in this business, who are interested and who we are now in this business, know that there are no more technical interferences to book objects that were built with a building permit, because more than once were recorded by airplanes. It is necessary to draw that condition in catastrian operations, so, if necessary, to employ more people there and to make the most of those who are already working there. That, if there is no need -- indefinitely, one number of geometers will be employed, which will be entered into cadastral operations, so that a registration sheet can be made and that the application paper is delivered to the court's land-booking department. And you, as a former lawyer, know that's the procedure. So, on the basis of that application list, it's in the book. There's nothing controversial about the buildings that were built with a building permit. Of course, finished, I agree, because if it's built with a building permit, it's got to get, I dropped it, a used permit to do these other jobs. The next problem is buildings built without a building permit and called illegal in the people. I don't think they're illegal, if someone built the facility with their money, and couldn't get the municipal authority to get the urban conditions and the building permit on their plot, because someone missed 10, 20, 30 or 50 years back to do the regulatory plans. That's something citizens can't take. This is not illegal objects for Serbian radicals, but objects built without a building permit. The Law on Planning and Construction has dealt with it in a very unfortunate way. When we spoke of the law, we, the Serbian radicals, warned then that Minister Shumartz would propose and that the then assembly majority would adopt an inapplicable law. That's what happened, and we have that law. We've had that bike -- go after the peoples, pay the tax, report all the facilities that were built without a building permit. It stands in the municipal offices, there are no conditions for these facilities to be legalized under that law, although they should, I guess the goal was to get all these facilities built-up permits. So that's another kind of problem. In February, it will be two years since we applied for a non-forcement of that very poor and inapplicable Law on Planning and Construction. The law has not come to this day on the agenda. It's not an introduction, it's something that's tied up, without which you can't talk about this mortgage law. I told all of this in order to explain, above all, to the citizens of Serbia, that it is not necessary for a return-in-the-counter law to be passed and that it is not good, because it needs to be passed quickly. This law, remember Minister Parivodic, I will ask you one day to remember that I claimed to you, and that we Serbian radicals claimed that you were passing an inapplicable mortgage law. This is how a concise and inaccurate law will not achieve its goal. I assume that your intention, the government's intention, was to pass a law that would create wider possibilities, more conditions to write mortgages on immovable property due to obtaining housing loans. I think that was the government's goal. We don't mind opening up the possibility of getting housing loans in as many as possible, actually, in unlimited numbers. We see another problem here. First of all, we think the government has to fight for cheaper housing loans. Secondly, the government in negotiations with banks that are on the market in Serbia today must make a more flexible relationship. We also have this agency, a corporation, which is guaranteed to the citizens for all the loans they're going to take from a bank. So there should be the essence and the essence of the government's functioning, because I guess that's why we used to pass some laws and ministers, which represented those laws, they said to us: only this law and here's the loan. Maybe you'll come out after me and say, "Just this law and here's the loan." We Serbian radicals claim that it is not, because it is not that simple. We don't doubt your good intentions, but it had to be a little different to regulate this. We have 32 amendments to this law. Of course, as fellow lawyers, we'll cross arguments when we talk about the law in particular. Now, as long as it allows me, I'll just point out some of the most characteristic things that you can think about when you're on the board to participate in the work on the amendments. Perhaps some of this will be acceptable to you, and it would be good for you to have some of the amendments and accept, if you could at least fix this text of the law. Mr. Parivodic, it is unacceptable that this law allows, for example, the recording of a mortgage on an ideal part of the immovableity. If you are an ideal co-owner on an object and you want to change windows, you must seek the consent of another ideal co-owner, third or fifth, depending on how many there are, and when you enter a mortgage, you do not need such consent. It can't. It's just not possible. You provided for credit agreements, you say "signature certificates can be performed by courts or other competent authorities". Minister Parivodic, there is no other competent authority. You can't, as a prophet, make bill proposals. We know what you meant, you meant the notaries. It's something that might be. At this point, we only have competent courts for the overture of these signatures, and that's the only thing that can stand in the law. Something that will be in the future, whether it will be, can't be the subject of this law or any other law. The mortgage on the building permit – Ministers, you must agree that it is simply not possible. The building permit isn't property, it's personal law. It says, "To the building facility." What does that mean? Does that even mean an object in construction without a building permit? Not with a building permit, not without a building permit. In any case, it seems to me to be regulated by Article 38. We've got that amendment, too. We'll talk more about it when we're on that amendment. Now I'm just telling you, I'm hitting on what's most characteristic, which can't possibly be the proposal for this law. Next, the mortgage has to follow the fate of a motionless thing. With this law you included both tenants and current holders. There is simply no legal certainty, there is no legal certainty in the part where no court proceedings are scheduled. That's unacceptable. Legal protection for a real estate owner must exist. You, as Government, we, as the National Assembly, must first and foremost take care of our citizens. Let the bank protect itself, we don't mind, it has to be protected, but you can't pass a law that, in fact, only protects trustees, or just banks. We know well, and all Serbian citizens know, what banks are currently current in Serbia and what banks are on the Serbian market. When we in the SRS say that we suspect individual ministers, specifically – Minister Dinkic, when it comes to the banking system, when we get a bill like this, it just confirms that our doubts are justified. I'll give you a concrete example of why. Dinkic did not explain to the Serbian public why he almost did not allow a large Russian bank to enter Serbia under very favourable conditions, through the purchase of Kulska Banka. Of course, he didn't accept it because he already has his banks here and what the Russian bank in Serbia will do to him. So I only mentioned this to confirm that I would also convince the MPs and the public of Serbia that we are right when we claim that this mortgage law is what it is, a law for creditors, or a law for foreign banks that exist in Serbia. Since we, Serbian radicals, love to explain to the public and citizens of Serbia something that can be their problem tomorrow, this way in the most acceptable way, understands everyone, I will now explain what this law, essentially, can mean, or what can happen, and how Serbian citizens will lose their immovableity. We warn Serbian citizens that they are keeping an eye on such a mortgage law, which will surely, when it is brought in, be so praised in the media, that citizens will rush to take credit, they will very easily remain without their property, when they put a mortgage on it. Here's the most banal example anyone can understand. If you, Minister, have a three-bedroom apartment and a garage and you take a loan to adapt that three-bedroom apartment, expand, you write a mortgage on the garage. The trustee knows that you have a three-bedroom apartment, and if it comes down to the fact that he has to collect his debt, he won't think about selling your garage to which you put the mortgage, because he can choose according to your law, so he'll sell your three-bedroom apartment nicely, to settle the debts. It is, and I say again, when we talk about the amendment, we'll talk about it in particular. Otherwise, this law has many provisions that are in collegiate within the law itself, and through the amendments, we have turned your attention. With Article 13, you have at least five other members of this law in your line of work. Furthermore, the whole law is in collegiate with the Law on Bond Relations, with the Law on the Movement and the Cataster of immovableity, on Planning and Construction, the Land Book, the Executive Procedure and, in the end, what you predicted, the central records of the Agency for Business Registers, the central mortgage records, that is something that cannot survive in our legal system. We have our land-based books, we have a catastrophe of immovableity, and I'm asking you, how are they going to regulate themselves? What are you going to do with the land-book court files, what are you going to do with the cadastrian operatives? Are you going to transfer all of that to this agency, what the catastres are going to do, land courts, what's going to happen to the mortgages already in place, which documentation will have to be transferred and whether it's possible physically and organisationally. I'm telling you it's not. This job I know very well, for a decade I worked in the property-law department in the municipality of Zemun, and this job and this matter is really close to me. I'm telling you, Minister, this simply isn't possible. What's gonna happen? You will soon find that even at the Agency this central record does not work, that it has not been established. Then you will propose amendments and additions to the law, and instead of the Agency you will organize the administration, so they will not go to the administration, and then you will then to the commission and what it will be called. So it's not the point. The point is that under the urgent change of the Law on Planning and Construction, to strengthen the court and insist on the efficiency of the Department of Land and Book Courts, the library departments of courts; to strengthen and seek the efficiency of the work of the Immobilities Catalogues; to ensure that the Government manages a little better conditions for the lending of housing and the purchase of dwellings. Of course, we don't expect this government to do it, it will be able to do it next, because it will be the government of the SRS. I'm taking the opportunity, here's 15.40 hours, to call the citizens of Backa Palanca, who have not yet gone to the square in their town, to have the SRS hold a big pre-election rally at 1600 hours. I call on citizens to come and support the candidates, who will be in the elections Sunday, to provide themselves with no corruption. To start in Bačka Palanca, and very quickly in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23983	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic, and then a National MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23984	First, I must complete Mrs Radet, to say that she will address part of the SRS leadership, particularly Tomislav Nikolic, at a rally in Backo Palanca, next to the municipal council's candidate. As far as this mortgage law is concerned, this is another good example and a good chance for citizens of the Republic of Serbia to see laws being made when they need to bring something good to the citizens. We've had a very good example of pensions, then you're postponing some laws practically out of sight, i.e. by the end of 2010. The first payment is delayed for 2007, although it is clear to you that in 2006, you will not be in power either, but when you have to benefit from certain stakeholders, such as the foreign banks you generously released in Serbia, after you have succeeded in the Serbian banks, which we had until then, it shows this law. I don't know what debt lobby you were talking about, but I don't really understand what debt lobby in Serbia is working on, did you mean the pensioners you owe your pensions to? They owe you for electricity and other bills, or you were thinking eventually of all those citizens you had before October 5th of October trying not to pay bills for electricity, info and everything else, and then after the election, from the position of the government, when you turned the turkey upside down, sued for interest and everything else. It is clear that this mortgage law is written according to the trustees, and it is mostly banks. You know that after October 5th, the people in Serbia were deceived by your promises of easy and good life in the future, and eager for all sorts of things, they rushed to take credit; that these loans were under extremely bad conditions, especially at the beginning, because you only recently established a commitment that when someone takes credit, in a clear and unequivocal way to make it clear which is an effective interest rate. Most of the time, at nominal interest rates, you showed that credits are more favourable than they are, so you say that seven percent is an interest rate, but charge credit at various other costs, so the effective rate is twice as high as the one shown in the bank brochures to citizens. Because of all this, in many cases people are unable to repay these loans they took. So, citizens are unable to repay loans and banks but are largely charging mortgages, citizens are left without apartments, houses, without assets they have acquired in the past decades. Of course they couldn't even think, at the moment of the loan taking place, that this law would serve to make the process of robbing these citizens a little easier, selling and taking away the immovable property they advocate in obtaining credit. The SRS has a lot of objections to this law, as well as to the definitions given in the law. There is a lot of inaccuracy, as well as in other laws of yours, and here it is noticeable that some of the concepts that the legal theory has made undisputed long ago, are now becoming controversial again through these legal solutions, and for some of me, unexplainable reasons, become very and needlessly complicated. I'll try, as long as it allows me, to mention some of the biggest remarks. First of all, in Article 3, where you regulate a publishing facility, you say it can be a building facility, as well as a special part of a building building, regardless of whether it's already been built, provided that a judicial approval for construction has been granted in accordance with the law governing the construction of a building. I ask you, what does that mean, on condition that it is not, whether or not it has already been built? Could it be a building facility, if it's already built? As far as I know, he can't. The second thing, what does the building facility mean if it's not built and no building permit has been issued? Then what's to be mortgaged on? It practically means there's no conditions. So you can put an object that's not built, there's no conditions. Then, this member of the law, if adopted in this form, and I certainly hope not, because the SRS has also submitted an amendment to this article, opens up a great possibility of abuse. The fact that there is a permit to build a specific object, or part of an object that can be a hostage object, means nothing. You know that apartments are bought both in Belgrade and across Serbia and can be bought before construction begins. So based on the project, and then they're the cheapest, you can buy a certain apartment that needs to be built, it can be a license, but there's just nothing to put under the mortgage. In that case, you can't guarantee that something that has been granted approval and which may be neat and paid, will ever be built. I know there's a lot of cheated people who have paid for apartments, and investors have run off with money, someone across the border, some have embezzled that money in other ways, but simply there's nothing out of those apartments. In this way, you can lead some trustees astray. I have a similar case myself, and my family paid for the garage in 1993, and it wasn't built until today. It hasn't been built in 13 years, there's no guarantee it's going to be for the next 13 years, and you're practically trying to make it possible for something that doesn't exist to put a mortgage. A serious complaint is certainly the establishment of a central mortgage record and it is essentially the establishment of another agency, regardless of what you call it, or an increase in administration instead of a reduction. You should know that the mortgage law should not make a certain parallel system of government, because the right to enter a mortgage on immovable property is already regulated by the law on land books and on the cataster of the immovableity and formation of this new body is not only directly contrary to certain laws, but it would also mean a new reorganisation of courts and would be very complicated, especially for those immovableities where mortgages already exist. I think it's clear and it should be clear that the mortgage can only be entered into on registered immovableities, and that the books are performed either by the land-book departments of courts or by the motifs of immovableity in those municipalities where land-books have not yet been established. We shouldn't have the minister's answer to any of these issues we've been up to, I know, but we'll handle it through the amendments. Mr. Minister, I see you've been much more in the mood here for a story with fellow MPs around, and you've been very keen on the story and with Mr. Per Cvetkovic of the DSS, you've been in a lot of mood for TV shows, but you're not obviously interested in explaining the effects of these laws to those of us MPs, who you're tasked with as Minister of Government, to persuade us to vote for this law. We're obviously not interesting to you as conversators. Your job was to clear, before you handed over this law in the procedure, with yourself and your experts and quasiexperts, some solutions, not that, after you let the law into the procedure, you solve anything through the amendments. I have to say, another minute or two, for example, in Article 25 paragraph 1 point 3, which refers to the settlement of creditors, you say that the mortgage trustee can require that his due claim be settled: 1) first of all from the value of the mortgaged immovableity, and then from the other assets of the debtor, which is quite normal and acceptable; 2) at the same time from the value of mortgaged immovableity and from the debtor's property, especially if the mortgaged assets are not sufficient, which can also be accepted, and then the third position, which I find totally unacceptable, 3) first from the debtor's property, and then from the value of the mortgaged immovableity. This would give you authority to the trustee that if a mortgage is established on some immovable property, and the mortgage debtor has some other property, requires the court to sell him another property first, it doesn't matter if it's mobile, it's immobilized, it's going to say – it wants to sell him a car, it's going to sell him a car, or if he wants to sell him a house he lives in. It's completely pointless, then there's no mortgage any point. Then why would anyone set up a mortgage on a certain immovableity, if tomorrow, to collect the debt, would sell something else. Therefore, the trustee shall have the privilege of choosing at the time of the establishment of the mortgage on which the mortgage facility will be established. Once you use your right, then it's completely insane, and it would be too much leverage for your creditors, to let them and then, after a year, two or five, depending on the nature of the legal work that the mortgage is about, at that point, empowering the trustee to say, I'm not going to sell you this apartment, I'm going to sell you something else. So there's still a lot of irregularities we'll talk more about when time allows, in the debate on amendments. But if you don't accept these suggestions from the SRS, we won't be able to vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23985	Replica, Mr. Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23986	Thank you, dear colleague Nemanja Sarovic, for allowing me to take these three minutes off about his views. The basic thing about your exposure is that you don't understand the legal institute of mortgages. This commitment to the protection of the interest of debtors is very problematic from the point of view of real rights and legality. The mortgage is established by the will of the debtor, as he guarantees by mortgage that he will repay some debt to the trustee. On the one hand, the mortgage allows for debt-confidential relations to be established, i.e. to promote economic activity or address housing issues. We have had a situation of unregulated mortgages for many years and a long time, so at this point it is practically not possible, after a brief procedure, to mortgage on some immovableity, because this is not foreseen by positive legal regulations. That doesn't mean it's not intended in a sufficiently adequate and fast way. Thank you for correcting me, or allowing me to specify my claim. The mortgage is not imposed on any debtor. Each debtor is aware of his actions and is able to mortgage on some immovable property or not to mortgage. If he refuses to lend a mortgage, then the conditions of lending are difficult, then he will find it harder to obtain credit either for the apartment, whether for his private company or for some economic economic economic activity he wants to perform. No one has forced him, no one has the right to force him, nor is this proposal forced in any way by the debtor. On the other hand, the trustee, in this case the one who has the money, which is 99% of the bank cases, has the power and interest to invest money that will be safe, which will be returned. No one's crazy, except in some long time ago, that he gives credits that will never be returned or whose war credit will be at the time of payment, one ridiculous amount, like a pack of cigarettes or nothing. We've already seen what's going on and it's not possible in modern societies and states either. It's a long time ago and, unfortunately, I can't understand thinking in that direction. Which means, the crediting bank has the interest in returning the loan, and through the bank's market game, or those creditors who have the funds to lend, or to lend money to the loan, that interest rate will be reduced, which also has a second option of limitations, and that is the legal option, but this is not the subject of this debate and the subject of interest. So, to conclude about it, and the trustee is interested in giving money and making sure he collects that money. It's out of the mind that someone is giving money and that they're counting on it not being returned, it's out of their minds that someone is giving money and it's problematic whether they're going to be in good relations with the government or with some authority or with a debtor to get their money back. Then there will be conditions of virtually impossible lending, any housing, or crediting future business activities. So there's no need to complain about the debtors. Under this mortgage law, every debtor, I underline, is willing and aware of whether or not some immovableity will be placed in a mortgage, and legal opportunities open up the possibility that even pawned debtors can give mortgage property, which directly means that mortgage immovableity does not have to be in the hands of debtors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23987	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23988	Mr. Cvetkovic, I really appreciate your explanation, but I'm going to have to tell you earlier, since you've been explaining to me the mortgage institute how it works, to explain to you how the Assembly works. When a principle debate is opened on a bill or on a set of laws, each parliamentary group has the privilege to report in a certain number of minutes, the relative size of the parliamentary group, the speakers, and then they come out here in line for a pay phone, one by one, and say what they have on the bill. The DSS parliamentary group didn't take advantage of that right, Mr. Cvetkovic. Then you abuse the right to a replica and go out here to flaunt with me from the SRS parliamentary group, and I also used the right that allows me to do the Rules of Procedure, and I came out here to talk about the law. As for the mortgage institute, I don't know who you've been dealing with, simply, what you've been criticizing, I haven't said for a moment. The mortgage as a pawn's right to immovableity is tied to a certain immovableity. Therefore, it is established to ensure the collection of certain claims on certain immovableities. The mortgage as an institute doesn't exist on the entire assets of the debtors and it's not about moaning over the rights of the debtor or the trustee, it's not about legal certainty, it's about not giving authority to the trustee to choose tomorrow whether to collect his claim from a pawned facility or say, no, I'm not going to do it, but I prefer something else. That's impossible. So, even before you say so yourself, mortgaged immovableity doesn't have to be owned by debtors. It's possible the trustee, if I agree to put the mortgage on some of my immovableity, says yes, but I don't want that apartment, I'll charge my claim from the apartment where you live. But the mortgage debtor wasn't ready at the time of the signing of the contract and the establishment of the mortgage to risk that other property. Therefore, the right of the trustee to collect the mortgage may apply only to that property which is designated as a publishing facility at the time of the signing of the contract. Anything else would be an abuse, whether by a debtor or by a trustee, but it doesn't matter. It's something that, for the sake of legal certainty in the country, cannot be allowed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23989	Mr Krasic responded for a replica of Mr Cvetkovic's exposure. Article 101. Rule 3 allows the chair to assess whether a replica is needed. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23990	You just quoted that true member of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Cvetkovic was in important talks, so Mr. Nemanja Sarovic only mentioned him, and he used it as an opportunity to bring out something here that neither Mr. Sarovic said nor represented the SRS' position. So, let me explain what the lack of understanding of the SRS's position is about, Mr. Cvetkovic. Mr. Sarovic has tried to explain several times that the mortgage is one means of security of claims. You brought out more incorrect things here during the replica. The first false thing, that we don't have an orderly mortgage. She is governed by the Law on Fundamentals of Property and Law, once by federal law, and now it's a republican regulation, I think it's from the members of 60th and someone to the members of 67th and 68th that's arranged. The manual pledge and the right to pledge rights and claims shall be governed by the relevant provisions of the Liabilities Act. The admission of mortgages to land books is regulated by law as well. Why so far this possibility of security of claims has not been used is primarily in the fact that up to a few years ago, 85% of all that exists in the territory of the Republic of Serbia was social property, so state property, so bad books, etc. That's one thing. However, if Mr Cvetkovic or anyone from the DSS wanted to use the time that the MP group has, he would have to come out here and explain to us, as you demonstrate a great knowledge of the mortgage, so that Article 3 can be written next. So, the subject of the mortgage can be 1) an immovable thing, I agree, along with that fence around the hostage facility, 2) part of the immovable thing in line with the decisions on the deobi, after the division, I agree, 3) the joint stake in the immovable thing - I disagree, it is contrary to the basic principles that apply to the stock. The thing where the mortgage is built must be individually defined, recognizable, defined, as such entered, it's a particle, it's a whole. You're saying it's a mutual part of it. When you're talking about co-ownership, you're talking about the rights that exist on some real estate, and here it's about real estate. Next, let me read it to you under number 5, it's inapplicable. You, Mr. Cvetkovic, participated in the Assembly when the Law on Planning and Construction was passed, how a mortgage can be entered on something that is not immovable. Here it says at point 5) right on land, it's not property rights on land, it's not proof it's owned by that individual. Then onward, which contains the powers of free legal availability. That you listened to your coalition partner Pajtic yesterday as he screamed and pointed to the failures of the law on planning and construction, because those in Vojvodina can't use that right at all. He goes on to say, especially the right to build. The right to build, the right to do it, where there's real estate. It's a right under established conditions, it's a personal right, on personal rights you can't establish any collateral, can you, Minister? Well, then you don't know the bonds. Next, it's the right thing to stop construction. The right to prevent construction no longer exists in our regulations, do you know that Ministers, have you read the Law on Planning and Construction? Next, or about the availability of social and state property, where it can be, what the Bug is doing with this privatisation, please, you've messed up what's immobility and what's the right to real estate.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23991	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. The word is Mr. Petar Cvetkovic. He has the right to reply, given that it is a professional discussion and it is good for the minister to hear these views. Here you go, Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23992	Mr. Krasic, I used my three-minute replicas according to the Rules of Procedure. Now let me tell you briefly, the apparition of Article 3 paragraph 1 point 5, where you claim that the authority of free legal capacity does not constitute a property right; it is part of the property. It is a notorious thing of property, or right that contains the right of property. Everything else you have marked, or read, and in particular the right to build, the right to prevent or make available in the state or social property, explains exactly what is entering the right of free legal availability. This is a clear point of point 5 of Article 3 of the Mortgage Act. I won't argue about it, we'll have opportunities around your amendments when the time comes, you also said I said the mortgage wasn't regulated by legal regulations. I said she's not dressed enough. That's, you'll let a big difference. In the end, your legal interpretations, literally, "do not hold water." I'm not gonna get any more of that. I hope that the Proposer, or the Proposer's representative, will make all the explanations at the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23993	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23994	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to Article 3 that we've been talking about, it's not clear what the definition of the right obstacle to construction is. Secondly, whether consent is required, because this is a misreading. If someone was building a house on state land, to put a mortgage on a particular debtor's house, or a person who wants to use his mortgage law, is the state's consent necessary? If so, which authority, whose authority will be to sign a mortgage on a particular natural or legal person's house. Without the consent of the state authority, since the state is the owner of the building land, I mean if the land is individually owned by natural or legal persons. But if it is especially the property of natural persons, the citizen has been given a building permit to build a house, build it, and should register it in land and cadastrian books. By obtaining permission, he at the same time gets the right to use on land of state property. Is it necessary here, not clear, for the state to agree, in a particular case -- will this be given by local self-government, because the right to dispose of local self-government has not yet been transferred, but by the state's own land? If so, then the competent state authority of the Republic of Serbia will have to, in any case, when a mortgage is established, give consent to the mortgage. Because if it comes to the fact that the debtor has not settled the obligations he has made under the mortgage agreement, and there is a sale of his property, in which case the use of the land moves on to a new potential buyer or trustee, if he participates in the purchase of the house, or the immovableity that is burdened. There's a question about moving things. It's a big risk for both the trustee and the debtor. Why? You have a situation that if this law is passed, the subject of the mortgage can be a picture of Paja Jovanovic. What do we do now, she's hanged on the wall, in an apartment above that apartment owner gets to the harbinger or firing pipe, the water goes down the wall, goes off the picture, ruins the painting, damages itself, and there's no value she had at the time of the mortgage. How and in what way should moving things be provided and provided where they will be located, who will evaluate them, and how will they be kept? That's a big problem. Because if there's any damage to things, then in that case no one will be able to make up for it, or anyone who's asked for a mortgage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23995	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Sarovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23996	Mr. President of the Assembly, I'd like you to let the minister hear a few more of these principle remarks, and later in the discussion of the details, we'll have a chance for the rest. That you haven't properly cleared up what a mortgage is, what a publishing facility is, what is the right to something else and whether the mortgage is on the facility or on the right, is best shown by Article 38. The SRS parliamentary group proposed to delete this member by amendment. Item 1 states: "If the subject of mortgage is a building facility, its sale for settlement shall be made subject to the right of construction established by the judicial approval for construction, with compensation, and by selling the things that are installed in the building facility." You're starting from the fact that the subject of a mortgage is a building facility, and then you say that the sale of a building facility is done in order to settle, by enforcing the right to build. So you don't distinguish the right to build, the right to build which is determined by the solution; you get the right, the building permit to build something and the facility. What if this future facility, the building facility isn't even started? So, you, in accordance with this law, can establish a mortgage on an object that isn't even started, but there are all neat permits. You set up a mortgage, a pawn comes in, asks where's the apartment I'm supposed to sell, sees that the apartment's gone, that there's only a building permit. Instead of selling an object that doesn't exist, you're making peace by applying the right to build. How much is this right to build? Can you measure the right to build with a finished object? Is he who is the trustee and who has accepted, in order to secure someone's claim, the mortgage on the apartment, he should first build that apartment to sell it? Of course not. That's completely pointless. It proves to you that you weren't consistent enough and you weren't discussing, which here is what immovableity is, what is a hostage facility, where a mortgage can be established, where it can't and what is mortgaged immovableity is, and what is the right to build. So it's different things, it's different and it's value. So you can't compare the value of a built apartment with the value of a building right. They're categories that aren't even close. This can only lead to abuse. Don't mind us, by eradicating this member here, the superseded trustee is being protected, not to say that we only care about the debtors. So we take care of anyone who's safe, whether it's a debtor or a trustee. In particular, by erasing Article 38's provision, we protect the trustee, because we don't want anyone to bring anyone -- whether the bank, a private person -- is mistaken that there's some immovableity, and that in fact it's only a right to build. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23997	Thank you. The word is Miss Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23998	Dear Mrs. Pop-Lazic, ladies and gentlemen, when the mortgage law was announced, honest to be, in a conversation with my colleagues, legal experts from the SRS who today have their expert position on the legal aspect and some technical shortcomings and inaccuracies of the law, I may have been able to say, well, the state will get mortgage law because in the process of expansion and housing credits and all that citizens are eager to expect in terms of any change in their living standards or living conditions, that this law, until I have received a draft, or now the text of the law, is something that will greatly resolve a barrier that appears before each of them when they set foot in one of the banks. Both in this first, with which the state corporation signed a contract on the granting of housing loans and with everything else, and with those which, according to purely market conditions, operate with us in the country, which are significantly different from those in the West, and because of the level of interest, and because of the way in which the trustee asks to be provided by the debtors, therefore all these objections by the SRS MPs, who spoke from the legal profession's position about the lacks of the mortgage law, and how justified. They are also based on the fact that the law is undefined and that it is more applicable in some other countries, and with a developed market economy, and with a regulated immovable traffic. Real estate in our country and real estate traffic are one of the high forms, I can't say open crime, but the rapid acquisition of profits, wealth, a variety of suspicious business and one great danger to the citizens of Serbia that, under the rush and expansion of allegedly favourable conditions that banks offer, and now after the adoption of this law, they think their life or decade-long problem will be resolved. First, what is a fact and I will speak from this economic aspect of the application of this law, Mr. Minister, may have been your intention or desire to tell the citizens now that it will be easier because of the building facility, on which to be able to take a mortgage, to get to the roof over its head, but now it creates another possibility for non-market business at the very least. And I will tell you specifically on the case of the town of Kragujevac, when it comes to selling this future facility that is defined as an immovable property facility in construction. The fact is, the first state doesn't have a list of its assets. Secondly, in the town of Kragujevac, 95 to 97% of the property is not registered. New Belgrade, according to land books, is a wetland land. All the housing blocks, all the settlements and all the MPs to come out, and it's really not funny, because if you go to the land-book judge, and there's only one such gentleman, although a hardworking judge, who's doing the book for both New Belgrade and Zemun, will tell you that he is unable to solve some cases and cases and requests for a book back five or ten years. I personally know of one such case of acquaintances who, day and day, fail, in addition to the demands of five years ago, to book their apartment across the street from the Hotel "Yugoslavija", and therefore its value is lower and cannot sell it. The agencies that are now involved in the process of giving and expansion of credits by banks speculate with this, and they know that Kragujevci, MPs who are from here, and the Mayor of Kragujevac, who is never here, when there has been debated almost any law, so there is a colleague present, Vučićevic, who is even from the government, and my indifference, cannot carry out the traffic of immovableity without fulfilling the terms of the bank offering them these loans because that future owner has nothing to lay down, because the apartment is not registered. What is the difference between the future newly built building and this residential unit and the one that was built, such as the residential facility in which I grew up and lived, which was entangled in 1973 and which was not registered in the city's narrow core of the town of Kragujevac, and the new facility whose price is in Kragujevac, which has completely collapsed, as the price of a square metre in Manhattan. It ranges from 1,200 euros to an incredible 1,400 euros. Then these representatives of the construction and urban mafia will tell you, so whatever you want, the equipment is that, so it's a new building, and it's much more quality apartments, although those who might need to get a little orderly or adapt with some modest sum of funds, for a square meter in the same city, in the city center, cost 600 or 700 euros. But these apartments aren't registered, they're not swamps, but they're run like some agricultural good or property-lawful case. Here is Mrs Pop-Lazic, the chairman, one of the most successful municipality presidents in Serbia, the head of the Zemun municipality, in which we, by the time we came to power in 1996, found one chaos in terms of land-book property registrations, and the situation in which the case today is expressed, for example, on the streets of Gae, one of the most beautiful and capital streets in the municipality of Zemun. There are several residential buildings on that street that were built right after World War II, perhaps in the late '40s and early '50s. Citizens who were then buying these apartments took loans from the Morothekarna Banka. In the meantime, it happened that later, again with some legal action, as a legal follower of the Hypothekarna Banka, it is incorporating in Beobank, and it has magically disappeared all the documentation and all the land-booked data on the mortgages that the citizens have placed on these properties. Now it's their heirs, because who knows since those apartments were paid off. What is our guarantee, Mr. Parivodic, that this will not happen with the future central register and that it will not happen again, of course, now there are legal disputes that last and continue, that such a situation is happening between the central register and the court. There's no legal protection, that's exactly what the MPs of the SRS were talking about before me. An explicit law protects the trustee, and a fellow who says just now appeared, so what, any future debtor, one who's interested in buying some real estate, knows in the beginning what he expects and what he has to face. Then take it by system or leave it, you have no other choice. Where you will find other and better conditions than those of those banks that offer it on our market and which are now absolutely like the white bears protected by this law that you propose to us and which will obviously, without the adoption of amendments to the SRS, because so is your opinion, or the opinion of the Government, although we will already see it, we will try in the day of debate in particular to convince you, to be this way in this text. Hypothetically, we're talking about a building facility, not only because there's going to be an incredible leap and a rise in any of the high prices, on a recent case, you've seen that it's something that's unacceptable, and not only because of the difficulties around the building permit, the use of the permits and everything that follows that famous infamous Law on Planning and Construction, which was long needed, and because of the collected, by the SRS, over a million signatures, and because of all the other shortcomings, because it really made life difficult for Serbian citizens, to be put out of force. We believe that the overall economic situation in our country cannot follow one such law, however much it is present in some other developed countries. The amendments submitted by Mr Krasic, which he spoke of, above all, the amendment to Article 3, i.e. the full amendment of Article 3 and the definition of what the object is, are more appropriate in the category of property known to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. And because of that, I'm going to tell you because of this point 1) that says here, one case that represents a potential danger of replacement... (President: Ms. Jovanovic, please bring an end, because the time has already expired. )......................................................................................................... property relations when it comes to the future privatisation of the Vojvodjanska Banka and I will finish in winter. You know, and I suppose a lot of MPs who are here in the O.R., and the public, above all, in Vojvodina, that the Vojvodina Bank has a mortgage on the ground, and these huge surfaces of certain combinations that are debtors of the Vojvodina Bank. Although Mladjan Dinkic assured us, when we passed the Bank Act, that the mortgage was excluded from the future privatisation of the Vojvodjanska Banka, which he himself announced, we have the information that it is not true. The entire future purpose of this land can be changed through the property of the future buyer of the Vojvodjanska Banka. These are just some examples of life, as you might say. The MPs of the SRS said that this law is in collegiate with many other positive legal regulations, but I don't think anyone mentioned the Law of Executive Procedure, especially when it comes to Article 25(3) and the possibility of the trustee choosing what Mrs Radeta spoke of illustratively, how she would charge and from where, more favourable and attractive, her debt. There is no right to appeal for the assessment of the arts, because there is also a possibility of bribery and corruption, which is present in the art, which is recognizable in our society, is also one method of abuse. There's no legal protection. Simply, this law is unfavourable for Serbian citizens, because no model has been found, although you could think about it for months, in order to in some way, as a state and as a corporation, which is a guarantee of the return of these loans, make some agreement and contract with banks, but on the other hand, and enable citizens interested in residential facilities, as well as businesses, to make it much easier, through different ways and conditions, to get the desired funds and facilities for the purpose they need.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u23999	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before concluding a principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? Minister Milan Parivodic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u24000	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I shall speak briefly. It's just, after a few hours of comments, which were very inspiring to me, I just want to pass on a few thoughts to you so that we don't hang on to these questions anymore, so when the time comes for discussion in particular, I'm going to debate in particular. First, think about this: mortgage is bond law, it's not really right at all. The mortgage is a bonding right of primary payment from the value of immovableity, and what brings it closer to the idea of real law is the circumstance that has erga omnes effect, i.e. through the function of publicity is being, as Valtazar Bogisic says "rooted" in the matter. I want to tell you that there is a great degree of tradition in the minds of lawyers. When you enter the essence of phenomena you see, in fact, that mortgage is one bonding right with erga omnes effect. Two thousand backwards is thought to be really real. First, as an observation of the topic of thought. Secondly, what I was about to tell you, the object of the pledge, according to this proposal, is any immovable property that is in traffic and any right, which is closely related to the immovableity that can be in traffic. That's the point. In that sense, I fully agree with Ms. Jovanovic that the New Belgrade is in an earthly-booked respect almost an entire swamp. New Belgrade, however, is full of apartments that are being sold. If something is sold, according to the Law on Fundamentals of Property and Legal Relations, the transfer of property is done by concluding the contract, and the entry into the land book is made. When we don't have a land book, we can't block life. As a result, the courts, within the meaning of Article 4a of the Immobility Transport Act, recognise the de facto traffic of immovableity on the basis of the contract itself and transfer the state to the facility. When our facts are as real as they are and we, on the other hand, know that we will be able to bring, hopefully, 10 years into some decent order, then we must find a solution to this objective situation. So if the courts admit that unregistered apartments and other immovableities are actually legal traffic, then so much before they can be mortgage objects. What we need to achieve is legal certainty through the function of the public registration function of this mortgage in an appropriate manner in land books, i.e. in a catastrophe of immovableity. That's the whole philosophy. Our citizens, unfortunately, are not equal to each other. The host who lives in the country is the owner of the land under his house. The host who lives in the city doesn't own land under his house. That is why I submitted a request to the Court of Justice of Serbia-Montenegro to put out the force of that part of Article 60. Serbia's constitution that puts state monopoly on city building land. We can't build a market economy if one of our country's main resources is under state monopoly. It's normal for one who uses immobility to own it. This is the basis of property, the basis of legal certainty in the country. If one uses real estate, which is in the city of every citizen who lives here, and the other is the owner, which is the state, it's not the natural state of things. So our citizens in this regard are neither equal nor acceptable from the aspect of market economy. That's why I applied to the court. The third observation I'd like to leave you to think about for the next time we're seeing is one statistical phenomenon. When I asked the bankers how many citizens didn't return their mortgage loans, they said they were all returning - zero percent. On the one hand, that's good news, because it means that those who took these loans are honest people and pay back their debts. On the other hand, this means that our banks are overly careful to lend loans, because in developed banking systems, you have about one to one and a half percent damage to mortgage debtors' obligations. So they feel too insecure in this existing state of affairs and therefore very harsh conditions set for loans. This law will allow these conditions, and the obstacles that banks are now setting, to be reduced and to raise the percentage of contract infringements by mortgage loans to 1.5% or between one and two percent, which is normal in developed market economies. Given that in normal situations 98 or 99 people out of 100 pay their debt, we will very rarely actually have to apply mortgage laws. That's good. Just one more observation and I'll finish it. This law regulates one shortened procedure for selling immovable property. However, it does not shut down the existing court procedure under the Executive Procedure Act. Therefore, whoever does not accept the procedure under this law will insist as a debtor that his mortgage be conducted under the Implementing Procedure Act, in terms of judicial sale. That possibility exists in any case, and it's at large for people to choose which way they're going to go. These are some of my general comments, and it would be my pleasure to talk to you about the amendments. I thank you for your constructive comments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u24001	Miss Natasa Jovanovic wants a replica of the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u24002	You said, Mr. Parish, at the end of one truth, you were probably informed by bankers. This has recently been a statement from the credit bureau, although citizens with very low incomes are attractive to these cash and other loans, and the resident who managed to secure the first-row mortgage, you are right that we are a disciplined nation and that citizens are mostly within the deadline, perhaps with one day of the most delays they pay dues, and in that sense perhaps you wouldn't need a law. Now Mr Stojkovic came along, and we also commented on it while you were talking, Mrs Radeta and I, it is not a problem whether a court will challenge the possible traffic of that immovableity, but rather the problem, and you have now said that it will be bridged, and that is all the question, by increasing the interest rate by the bank by 1.5% and 2 percent. We've been talking here all the time about the most present problem in the state, when someone without an apartment, with no real estate, wants to apply for a housing loan, has to provide in every bank, from first to last, a first-row mortgage. Who's that? A relative, a friend, can be no problem and a collateral later, but how can a book process be long waiting? There won't be any banks to give. Just go out and give me a bank in Serbia that at this point, here's still working hours, can go any of the MPs to take that form, gives me such an opportunity to apply for a loan, without the property you want to mortgage on. I guarantee you there's no such thing. Maybe just at an increased interest rate, as some banks have announced, I think the HVB bank and some others will think about the ownership paper, or the deed being a substitute for it, but to provide for the risk by perhaps where the credit is without participation, to determine some participation and increase the interest rate. There's no other option, and there's no other option under this law. So, there's a construction facility, and what about the 95 percent in Kragujevac that was built 40 and 50 years ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u24003	The minister wants a replica of Ms. Jovanovic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u24004	That's exactly the problem, Miss Jovanovic, which you have cited as solving this law. So, this law directly orders land registers, these are courts on one side, on the other side of the cathedrals, that they write a mortgage either on a building in construction that is by definition not registered or on an object that is built but not registered, but only provided there is a judicial approval for construction. If that condition, which is the minimum condition we set, were to be lifted, then we would really be comfortable with wild construction which, of course, is not our goal. That's exactly what this law is going to achieve, and that's possible, you'll see.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u24005	Mr. Krasic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u24006	Minister, since you're a representative of the government on this agenda point, as we promised these G17s plus those two pension regulations to prepare for each of our amendments, we'll be 15 minutes, they'll be 15 minutes, so let's see if it's over one-sixth of a third, after eventually it's down to that debate. The SRS guarantees you 32 amendments, prepare very well for each amendment, but let me draw your attention to this for which I have reported. I'm taking you back to that starting point again. It's not a traditional understanding of how you characterized the SRS' attitudes. The publishing facility is an immovableity. Real estate can be land, different types of land, agricultural, forest, city building, etc. It is not true, there is a provision in the existing Constitution, and that is precisely in the member whose assessment you are looking for, that under the terms of the prescribed law and city building land may be in private property. You didn't read that well, look a little bit better, I know that member very well. That's the attitude before that attitude that speaks of cultural goods in our Constitution, but to know one more thing, and another, that these are immovableities. Well, you said we had a book and an off-book property. Off-book property is a state of action tolerated by our courts. The central question of this law is that the mortgage is recorded on the immovable property as a hostage good, and you've interpreted it as immovable and you convince us that there are certain rights to immovable property, and among other things, you've put the right to an obstacle to construction. I direct you, when you prepare for a debate under the amendments, take a good law on bond relations. If there is a need to change appropriate provisions in the Law on Bond Relations that will allow for more effective protection of creditors based on rights and claims, go with this project, we will support you. But if you want to promote it through the mortgage law, we will challenge you, because the hostage is immobility. (Milan Parivodić, from the place: Can I ask you something? Is the mortgage on property or immobility? On immovableity, I'm sure. What does the cargo manifest say? The right to make available to that amount shall be prohibited, and unless the debtor fulfils his obligation, the mortgage trustee shall be entitled to settle his claim from the value of the immovable property. How will the claim be settled from some right? How are you going to calculate what is the value of the right to prevent construction? You can see for yourself, if some immovableity is co-opted, co-owners share, manage, negotiate for use. In case one co-owner wants to alienate, to have his share, he must first offer to the co-owner, but the immovableity is in co-ownership. If this immovableity is burdened, it is all burdened, unless a deob has been previously committed, and you are promoting our supply of rights and claims in the form of immovableity, and you have found very well that the underlying problem that there is no recording of mortgages and other rights concerning immovableity is in poor records of impreciseness and so on. In the end, let me just finish you off with one little anecdote. When two former presidents talked, this one says I sold my husband's tractor, and this one says why, so he says, yours sold the country, so I don't need it anymore. You'll sell car factories, bus factories, these factories, those factories, you've got nothing but land left. When you're done with the country, then you'll democratically tell us -- now some democracy is flourishing, someone else is pulling this state out of this state.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u24007	Here you go, Minister Parivodić. There will be an interesting discussion in detail.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u24008	So the right of the primary fee from the value obtained by the sale of mortgaged immovableity. Mr. Krasic, property rights are being sold, and real estate is being handed over to a buy-in contract. It's a real property sale. That's why the strict sense of pledge is on property rights, and the property property is immobilized. But it doesn't matter. We all know that in folk talk there is what Professor Stankovic, our most famous civilian, called materialization of property rights or objectification of property rights. It's a circumstance that one who says - I have the right to property on the piano, says - I have the piano, because it actually has the right to property on the piano. The bottom line is what I said, but it's a theoretical debate, let's solve life's problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u24009	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm concluding a principled search of the mortgage bill. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: – Stopping duty, SECURING AND CHOICE OF COURT FUNCTIONS For this item of the agenda, you have received the following proposals for decisions: 1. Proposal for a decision on the election of judges, number 119-2785/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice, 2. Proposal for a decision on the election of judges, number 119-2807/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice, 3. Proposal for a decision on the election of judges, number 119-2804/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice, 4. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, number 119-2668/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice, 5. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, issue 119-2784/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice, 6. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, number 119-2805/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice, 7. Proposal for a decision on the election of public prosecutors, number 119-2926/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice, and 8. Proposal for a decision on the election of deputy public prosecutors, number 119-2927/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice. In accordance with Article 160(3) and Article 94 thereof, Rules of Procedure, parliamentary groups have five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs: the Serbian Radical Party - one hour 36 minutes, the Democratic Party of Serbia - one hour three minutes 36 seconds, the Democratic Party - Boris Tadic, they are not there, G17 plus - 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia - 26 minutes, 24 seconds, New Serbia's independent MPs 9+9 - 20 minutes 24 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group have the right to five minutes of debate. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a single search into the motions for decisions. Do they want the word of the promoter's representatives? No, I don't. ) Does the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Mr. Krasic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u24010	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, I would only suggest at the beginning that we remove some of our problems. We have been convened for this session to be given a broad name for this item of the agenda, where the holders of judicial functions are listed. Recently it was supposed to be held by the Justice Committee, it wasn't held, it might have been later, I don't know, but we got information that only the presidents and judges are on the agenda. We've prepared ourselves accordingly for these proposed six decisions. You have now read both prosecutors and deputies in this announcement of this agenda. If you're going with that agenda, then I'd like to ask somehow that...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u24011	We'll take off the seventh and eighth points of the agenda, obviously we have to. When I prepare the sessions, there won't be any mistakes like this. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u24012	So this moment I found out about the problem. Since it's not right for us to talk to each other this way, and the deal is to see what the problem is. Since the point is scheduled in relation to the material received, just to check when one has arrived, please provide a five-minute break, just to consult the minister, the president of the Supreme Court, the chairman of the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u24013	I'm setting a five-minute break for a consult.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u24014	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will continue our work. May I have your attention, please? After consulting with the representatives of the professional service, Minister Stojkovic and the President of the Supreme Court, and given the observed fact that not all of them are timely, the framework of elections and the resolution of the holders of judicial functions, received and reviewed the materials addressed and concerning the public prosecutorial functions, both materials, they will certainly be found within the session that tomorrow the president of the Assembly will schedule for 22 December 2005. So it's going to be a short session, hopefully, so there's no need for speakers to talk about it today. I thank everyone for the collegiation, understanding of the procedure and thank the executive authorities for their willingness to help them prepare and deliver the material in an appropriate manner in the morning. So now I'm rereading for this item on the agenda, so the one we're now considering you get: 1. Proposal for a decision on the election of judges, number 119-2785/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice, 2. Proposal for a decision on the election of judges, number 119-2807/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice, 3. Proposal for a decision on the election of judges, number 119-2804/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice, 4. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, number 119-2668/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice, 5. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, number 119-2784/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice, and 6. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, number 119-2805/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice. So we're talking about six decisions. I remind you that representatives of the parliamentary groups have already been reported. Does the President of the Supreme Court, Mrs Vida Petrovic-Skero, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does Minister Stojkovic want a word? He's not here. ) Do any of the authorised representatives, therefore, Mr Krasic, and Mr Obradovic. Therefore, MP Zoran Krasic, authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, and then Zarko Obradovic, a national MP, and Marko Krstin, authorised representative of G17 Plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u24015	Mr. Markovic, I think that in the future, when we have more decisions like this, and you're probably going to ask for some later to be published as unique decisions, this is probably going into two or three publishing decisions, somehow in that conference, to deliver these numbers to us so that we can follow this and not get into this situation that we just found ourselves in. We've solved this. Because of the service that closely monitors these disputes, and since we are within the point, practically in a topic where we can now challenge individual candidates who will be voted on specifically in the voting day, we are probably familiar with the procedure. I don't want to make some excessively large introductions, but I'd like to read according to these decisions that the candidates, whose choices we're challenging, who these candidates are and whose choices we're challenging. This Decision 2668/05, the SRS challenges the candidate under regular number 4, that is Natasu Kuznetsov, Municipality court in Likovec; candidate under regular number 5. Jovan Velisavljevic, Municipality court in Despotovac; candidate under regular number 6. Miroslav Lepojevic, Municipality court in Batocina. I now move to a decision, it is a decision on the election of the President of the Court and this second one I will now read, concerns the election of the President of the Court, which is number 2784/05, we are contesting candidate Mirjan Pajtic, who has been proposed for the President of the Municipal Court in Vladimirci, and also this last name associated me with drawing attention to the High Council of Justice for the shortcomings that exist in light of this decision. In this biography that was given here, there's no record that she was the president of that court. I think that's a very important piece of information, you'll look at the motion for a decision, and you'll see it in an explanation, not in the light of the decision, but in the part relating to this candidate, there's no such thing as a year and a half of the lady's been President of the Municipal Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u24016	There, Mr. Krasic, it's a lapus, don't insist on it, please, there, here's a decision I keep ahead of me, sorry, you probably didn't see, it's close, you're right, it needs to be pointed out at the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u24017	You'll show me after that. As for the decision to elect the President of the Court of Justice No. 2805/05, we dispute the candidate proposed for the President of the Trade Court in Sombor, that is Biljana Nastasic; candidate for the President of the Municipal Court in Negotin, Milan Blendic; candidate for the President of the Municipal Court in Stara Pazova, Dusan Cjetojevic. Now I move on to the motion for a decision on the election of judges, 2785/05. We are contesting a candidate who has been proposed for the municipal court judge in Pozarevc, Robert Jovanovic; candidate for the municipal court judge in Backo Topoli, Cila Tilger. As far as these decisions are concerned, 2804/05 and 2804/05, they're run by the same number, unfortunately, we've got two different papers. We don't dispute those decisions. It's customary for a challenge to appear, at least in the most modest lines, why does the SRS, so that someone doesn't call now, from those who find themselves offended by what we've done, I'll only provide very modest data. I don't want to spread this subject at all because of the relations in the courts and the relations that citizens should have with the courts. We must restore trust in the judges and our courts. I will try to express this disagreement and disputation with the chosen words. Milan Blendic, who is a candidate for the president of the Municipal Court in Negotin, has long been known since he was president of the Municipal Election Commission in 2000. He brutally violated regulations to achieve someone's interests, which apparently indicates that he has a very selective approach to justice and justice. As President of the Municipal Election Commission, he did not even allow parties to declare objections, objections, and at that time he was one of the people who rocked that court. Then, I would draw your attention to another phenomenon, besides someone boasting that he is a member of the Society of Judges, we now have candidates who boast that they are members of the Rotari Club. Here's one right here, he even took a picture, it's a New Way weekly. That's somewhere, Mr. Markovic, where you're being betrayed in your hometown. He's a participant of the Rotari Club ceremony in Jagodina. I know what the problem is with this court in Despotovac. I know it's a big problem how to find a real candidate to be president of a court, a team before there's everything and everything. However, this candidate is very specific. His father was a lawyer, his father was the president of the court for 18 years. They're Velisavlviæi, of course they're not Topalovici, but they're Velisavlviæi. They have such a good position that the son can stop all criminal charges and criminal acts against the father of a lawyer. It already exists. Secondly, it is much more important for him to be a member of a similar party, to join a similar party, so Velisavljevici, as a family, not only to advance, but to secure their positions in the place. It's the heirloom of the President of the Court. I had to use this to inform you that it wasn't the only case of such behavior. The natural connection, which appeared between the candidate for the president of the court and the spouse, relatives, lawyers in the same territory, and how she was present. That's what it's all about when someone's proposing to the judge and the president of the court. I would like to refer to the challenge of running for President of the District Court of Vladimirs. It's Mrs. Mirjana Pajtic. I got something in writing here. She was elected president of the Vladimirs court at the time of JUL, and was then resolved in a very short period of time. When I said she was a member of JUL, I have no intention of disdaining anyone, just to point out that she didn't mind being a member of the JUL as a judge, and that she would later become attached to the Democratic Party and these others in order to remain in a position. By the way, she's traveling from Capco to work in the Vladimirs. I guess there's a total of four judges out there, only one in town, that man's respected, and this woman is not exactly respected by what neither as an expert nor as a man, and you found her to propose. I'll just say something from her case-law, based on some of her decisions that have become legal, which can now be commented, because the proceedings are over. If there's a crime, with some fatal consequence, so be it a car accident, it's a rule to impose fines for up to three months, but for stealing electricity, conditionally said, it's a minimum of four months, and for forest theft goes up to a year. That's her criminal policy. There's probably something behind that criminal policy. It's probably not Dusan Petrovic, but it wouldn't surprise me. In that statistical data of yours, there was probably one mistake. If it starts a little bit in those coefficients, the numbers of solved, unsolved cases, it can be seen that one verdict has been done, say, for four years. He has a decision that was made only after four years. How can she, as future President of the Court, drive others to be effective, quick to make court decisions? (President: Would you like to use the other ten minutes? I'd like to ask, Mr. President, if I don't mind continuing, since this is one whole. Probably where one professional, direct control should be carried out and this candidate. But it would probably be good to become a practice of the work of the High Council of Justice, regardless of what composition, depending on the candidate, what is chosen, that, when it comes to candidates, one professional control of what they did and what their references are to qualify them to be the presidents of the courts. You can see for yourself that there is Mr. Dusan Petrovic, since you know he is cheerful and dressing there. You can do whatever you want at the High Council, he'll finish everything with his channels. Now he's moved, for a week now, to Bačka Palank, running a campaign from apartment to apartment -- a safe voice, it'll go just like in Nis. There is Sutanovac, by the way of the campaign, making a riot, Beška, Stara Pazova, something tossing and messing around, but it'll go the same way, and maybe worse than in Nis. I would return to this candidate's very inspiring past, professionally, that's that Cetojevic Dušan. You see, in the District Court of Sremska Mitrovica, a criminal complaint was filed, in September 2005, because of the abuse of the official position and violation of the law by the judge because, in an illegal way, he was benefiting himself and others from the Law of Court Taxes. It is very well known to you, Mr Stojkovic, that this is a tax issue, for its official travels, and especially how some new taxes are introduced if someone wants to speed up the course. No, you're doing judicial surveillance, so you showed good results in detecting crime in some courts, and I didn't call you in a negative context, but in a very positive context, to commend you for throwing some out, or starting a trial, so when they saw you, they had to run off on their own, because they were obviously being threatened with some finers a little bit bigger. Let me remind you, these are the items of the Buddhaan accounts. That's why Mr. Bosko Ristic here challenged all the candidates, because his downfall, so now he counts, when mine has fallen, then they must all fall. A special tax on the efficiency of the court has been introduced here. You can even patent that. Look how successful he is here. He was well-proven in the case of an DS representative in the area, and he's called Chevo Zeljko. That's where he showed great bias. I don't want to read all this data, but I'm going to show you, Mr. Secretary, as far as a man can't know. Look, he was a little bit in court, so he went to the lawyers, so there was a little bit, so these his guys came in and they put him in and he was three or four years president of the court, nothing under God's name worked, except he was melting into the KV councils and what DN, you know, there he was very successful. I'll give you a very interesting example. In his desert procedure, he decided that the legacy of the deceased would make the right to use the apartment. I'd like to draw your attention immediately, not to bear fruit or the right to live, but to use the right to use the social housing and to allow the heirs to buy the apartment later. Watch what he did. He doesn't know the right, Mrs. Petrovic, he doesn't know the right, he erred there by mistake, someone gave him the wrong degree. He was probably looking at these immovableities at Parivodic's. And with Parivodić, immovableity is a real thing. He does not know what is right and what is immobility. Immobility is a matter, and law contains some powers. This one's even worse than him. Here he is, he's brought a solution, and the municipal public defender says, aman the judge, learn something, we object to it, and then explain to him the attorney general, he can't judge, no, he's stuck. He's finishing the job. I want to remind you, this is a nice article from April 2003, Fake Three, and there's probably some follow-up yet, but there are some threats. These are the night sessions he chaires, night sessions bigger in the municipal court to which he chaires, who? The President of the Court. For what? So the municipal public prosecutor would be afraid to drop charges and prosecute three very key directors of some companies in Old Paz. Please, the paper has been published, a picture has been given, says the Court in Old Paz day and night, in the text, he ambushed as much as he wants, even three BIA workers threatened the municipal public prosecutor, at the head of it, or as an accomplice, that candidate you proposed. I only took these three or four characteristic examples. I have to point out once again what I'm doing, but I can't say that it's now expressed in some big percentage, but somewhere you've suggested to the judges some candidates and we haven't challenged it. Why didn't we argue? Because there's nothing so bad about these people, but there's an incomparably much better and good thing about other candidates who couldn't get into that drum and get them out. It is quite obvious that another criterion was present, we suspect it was present, and as far as we're concerned, and obviously, and we don't want to argue because they're candidates for judges. That's their start. We don't want to argue that at the beginning of your judge, because you're probably going to vote it all out, so that future judge doesn't experience the inconvenience of somebody knocking on his door and saying, "You're the one who's been challenged and these guys forced you." I'm telling you this because there are probably two or three classes of better candidates who applied for those seats. Unfortunately, they didn't pass. It was probably the basis for us to challenge some other candidates, but we've respected the fact that it's small courts, where it's not possible to provide quality people, where there's no big interest. We want to help make the judiciary more independent, which is more independent, because nothing is absolute, as we want to distract you, you have proposed some candidates, and there are MPs here who are not likely to come out and say, and they should not go out and say what they have in the meantime. But, you know, some of the candidates we challenged, and you didn't believe us, now you believe us that we were right, because you noticed that these presidents of the court are going to the president of the municipality, to someone in their opinion. Some MPs here bitterly regret voting for this candidate, or for those candidates, since there are more cases. That late mind is good to appear, and it's not good what to correct that injustice has to wait four years. In four years, you and those guys can do anything and everything. I said this more because you probably think that in some words I may have gone a little too far, it's your right to think so, and be assured, where the SRS shows that there are some problems and dispute the choice of a candidate, believe there are a lot of real reasons to join us in voting on these candidates.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u24018	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Here you are, the authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Obradovic, and then the authorised representative G17 plus, Mr Marko Krstin. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u24019	Mr. President, fellow Members of Parliament, allow me to say a few words on this agenda on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group. In this context, I cannot help but mention our last conversation on this subject, for the reason that it was in public at the time, by unfortunately colleagues who are not present here tonight, MPs of the DS, and above all colleagues of Boška Ristić, something that is not true and what the whole of Serbia has seen, but I find it interesting, because I link it through the absolute insistence of DS MPs not to make any changes in the judiciary and essentially disabling the work of the Assembly and MPs and this whole story about the election and resolution of judicial officials. In fact, at a press conference held the following day after the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Bosko Ristic presented information that the most disputed proposals were made by the SPS MPs, 41, as he only counted I do not know, and that this shows that it is a purely political trade between the SPS and the ruling coalition, and that judicial staff are chosen only on the principle of political trade between the ruling coalition and the SPS. Of course, Mr. Minister, etc., was directly appointed. Because there's a certain thesis that needs to be proven, and then it doesn't run away from anything. The truth is, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I then challenged six or seven proposals, which I will do tonight, of course, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, for what I consider necessary and for which we have the relevant data. I couldn't help but mention what it looked like in practice. We do a job here, we talk to more or less arguments, we dispute or we praise, again with more or less arguments, and someone who doesn't participate in the work of the Assembly has a cold schedule for a press conference and brings out something that isn't true. I have to mention this because, in public, by NGOs and DS members, for several months now, they have been pushing through the allegations that the judiciary is the subject of political trade, of settlements, of blackmail by the SPS, because NGOs have also launched a particular initiative, it seems to me, and have sent me a letter to the Ministry to check, like, how many cases the SPS members have withdrawn, completed, etc., without even questioning what the content of these criminal charges is. I have repeatedly said that the SPS was a subject of both political pogroms and, unfortunately, the court pogrom, not only of the court but also of the prosecution. So the entire judiciary has been involved in a campaign politically conducted since October 5th. Tonight, on two or three examples, I will show you this one more time, because I must constantly warn Serbia and the judiciary that they must never again allow to be brought down to the branches as they were after 5 October 2000, because by mid-2001 160 judges were elected according to DOS criteria. I've said it many times, and I have to keep mentioning it, because the lessons about work, about values, about quality, about dispute are held by those who only used party criteria and for which no other criterion was applicable. There is no need to neglect this role of NGOs at all. Unfortunately, they are part of our entire life, especially political. They have a very significant impact on the state or monitoring of certain occurrences. You saw that even Carla del Ponte found it necessary to have a conversation with them when she came to Belgrade, when she had talks with representatives of the Serbian state, because it was important to hold appropriate talks with them. Because these NGOs do call their part of the job, but they essentially justify the money invested in them, because funding these NGOs is by certain countries in the West. They have to do their part of the job. Unfortunately, they are working against Serbia's state and thus essentially bringing into the other plan those honorable NGOs, which noble goals cannot affirm, nor to affirm their work to a sufficient extent, because their work is not politically motivated and not paid by Western states. But that's something that's part of our society's life. objectively, we have to keep mentioning it, at least I think my fellow SPS MPs, and fight it. Tonight, we have on the agenda a selection of certain legal holders, presidents and judges of certain courts. On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I will challenge certain candidates. Here, I'll take my turn. We are contesting a candidate for the President of the Municipal Court in Lykovec, a candidate for the President of the District Court in Uzic, a candidate for the President of the Municipal Court in Vladimirci, a candidate for the Judge of the Municipal Court in Pozarevc - Jovanovic Roberta, a candidate for the Judge of the Municipal Court in Sapac - Jovanovic Sladjan, a candidate for the President of the Municipal Court in Stari Pazova. That's it. Some of the reasons related to the challenge of these candidates were mentioned by counterpart Krasic. Some of the reasons he presented also apply to the SPS parliamentary group. For some he didn't mention, we think there are better people who can do the job. For some of these people I challenged, a competition was made to be chosen, because the competition was cancelled, so it was re-made. In our court, it's undeniable. Some are not professionals, show bias in work, political acuity. The subject of their work as holders of judicial functions was, among other things, Socialists. Somehow, they showed their professionalism most to them, of course, in a negative sense. We believe that this has shown that they are not worthy of performing this responsible function or these responsible functions, since it is a choice for judges and presidents. Otherwise, I think it is a good idea for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to make a choice for the holders of judicial functions. We need to improve the situation in the judiciary. We're not happy with him, someone more, someone less, but I think it's a good idea that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia discusses the subject and that he is speaking publicly about bad phenomena in the judiciary, always, in my opinion, going concretely, as much as possible, so as not to give negative assessments in that community and people who don't deserve it. Because in the judiciary, among judges, prosecutors and others in the judiciary, there are very, very correct and honest people who are of profession, profession and who do their duty in a very safe way. But there are also those who have given themselves to the charms of politics, thanks to politics, who have come to responsible functions and have obviously liked being where they are and serving a particular policy, and can't get rid of it. They should not be judges and presidents of the court, nor prosecutors. It's good for us MPs to talk about it. Unfortunately, others don't talk about it or what they're saying can't be heard far, or it's wrapped in a table of sheets, so the people can't even understand what the writer was going to say. Last time I spoke of a case, when a court judge in Sremska Mitrovica was brought into action. That's when I brought out some data. In the meantime, I received a report from the Grand Personal Council. Only to you, MPs of the National Assembly and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, will I read the last paragraph, because it essentially confirms everything I've said. I quote: "After a discussion with Judge Svetlana Đuricic, Judge Đurić added a number of evidence for her allegations, such as a letter from Judge Đuric to all judges and culprits of the District Court in Sremska Mitrovica and a list of pending cases for 2002, on Day 27. Six. In 2005, the orders of the President of the District Court in Sremska Mitrovica of 23. 8. In 2005, 28. 12. 2004, 16. 1. 2004, 9. 5. In 2002, the old case resolution plan, drawn up by Judge Đuričić as the head of the criminal department, the addition of the annual schedule for 2003, the schedule for the 2005 jobs, the higher number of reports for the period 2001 to 2005, and the review of the standards achieved in the District Court for the period 2000-2005. The evidence collected shows that there are a number of old cases in the Sremska Mitrovica District Court, both from first-degree and second-degree criminal matter, that almost every judge is involved in several old cases." That's what I mentioned. If you were to evaluate the work of all the judges who were there, if they had old subjects in their work, then no one should be a judge. The point here is that two women were to be kicked out of the race for the position of District Court President in Sremska Mitrovica. I quote further: "From the evidence collected, as well as the allegations of Judge Svetlana Đuričić, the references are from the solution to the number of cases which have not been dealt with in good time and where absolute obsolescence has been correct, except for those cases which the Judge Djuric himself stated in his statement." So everything is true just not what she claims, and what she claims is true. "The subjects in which absolute obsolescence occurred, apart from the 2003 case, Judge Đuricic and most of them were not immediately in charge, were already working with other judges, and in one period with Judge Đuricic, and at the end of the period when her limitations were back on track." So, basically everything I've been telling you, and I'm glad, because I've been using the allegations that are true, but this is good, and, of course, I'm not going to quote and object to Mrs. Đuricic now, given that she's been given a warning measure by the Great Personal Council, but she's pointing out evidence that neither this report, that I'm not quoting everything, is going to be an opportunity, in any case, it's good to hear such things here through a pay phone from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because there's no other place. The media does other things. I mentioned that the Socialists were the subject of political and judicial persecution, and tonight I will mention the case of two persons, two women, Dr Miroslav Perisic and Dr Branislave Belic. One is from Belgrade, the other is from Novi Sad. Dr. Miroslava Perišić was otherwise the director of the Zvezda House of Health and, of course, in violence, which was carried out on 5 October 2000, she was removed, of course without arguments, on her hands. It's interesting, I have in my hands a letter that the DOS then instructed its members to gather and resolve the situation in a revolutionary way, which, of course, they did in the House of Health of the Stars and did and it's interesting that it's the only leadership that's practically left since then and to this day in a place that's taken by force. It is interesting that Mrs Miroslav Perisic handed it over to the court and that she received a verdict that was never carried out. So there's also a seal for execution in the Fourth Court, but there's never been a solution since 23 October 2000. To this day she is the only one, not the only but one of the people who has been replaced by a coup, literally taken out of the official rooms, handed over the matter to the court and has the solution that it was done in an illegal way, but of course this could never see the light of day. Interestingly, Mrs. Miroslava Perisic's case was then followed by the media campaign against the Socialists, so "Evening News" joined the campaign and published three articles, two of which were denied. Depressions have been made by Mrs Perisic, the "News" have announced, however, the third, in her opinion, the most embarrassing article, not until today is denied by "News", nor will it ever be done, and otherwise you know that there is a judicial decision by the District Court in Belgrade that obliges "News" to publish the deficit. The court's ruling in Belgrade has not been carried out. Otherwise, I'll read it to you, that denial is very short, but very illustrative. Dements that have never been published in "Evening News" reads: "Incorrect are listed in the text published in the list "Evening News", of 25. 12. In 2000, under the heading "Depreciation Without Anesthesia". It is incorrect that two years of bookkeeping are not conducted because the accounting documentation has been submitted neatly to the competent service in the time-limits provided for, for periodic account and final account. All the appliances he had the House of Health with are in place at the time I stopped working 17. Ten. In 2000. The initial renovating of dental technique has been undertaken to improve working conditions, but the works have been suspended 25. Seven. In 2000, by order of the Minister of Health." So, this "News" denial didn't want to be published. Meanwhile, Mrs Perisic has conducted proceedings against the owner of the "News". I deliberately tell the owner, not Director Manojl Vukotic, and, of course, his organs couldn't ask him to appear at the trial until today. The next debate is scheduled for 26 December 2005. So, no temporary measure has ever been made, never a denied article, and an execution has been initiated that has not been completed to this day. I also mention the case of Dr Branislave Belic from Novi Sad, who was the director of the Institute for Blood Transfusion and Professor at the Faculty of Medicine in Novi Sad. In her case, something interesting happened. The Minister of Health in the Doss government, and it's interesting that it was Mr. Obren Joksimovic, did not want to change it. That's very interesting, because that's the essence of the story. The Minister of Health in the then government, the first revolutionary, or counter-revolutionary, Mr. Obren Joksimovic, did not want to replace Dr. Branislav Belic because he estimated he was doing the job in a good way. Then her colleagues said, since we can't change you there, you won't be able to do the job of a doctor. Then they resorted to a very simple solution, contrary to the provisions of the University Law, they expanded into the statutes of college conditions for choosing to call a doctor. Remember the 2002 University Act, a legal basis was created to re-examine the selection of all people working at universities. It is interesting that the first revision procedure at the Faculty of Medicine in Novi Sad, Mrs Belic, was not contested, but then came from an unauthorized body, which was welcomed by the Medical Faculty. Otherwise, she was told in four eyes -- if you had resigned there, I wouldn't have had you replaced here. Since you didn't want to, you won't be a doctor here anymore. And the statutes of the university are extended, given in the statutes of the university conditions which the Law on the University does not contain. Nor was she chosen to call an extraordinary professor because she had been a doctor for five years, nor was her choice confirmed in calling a doctor, with an explanation that she simply had no assistant experience. Our esteemed colleague, Professor Velimir Simonovic, is here, so he can deny me. I don't remember in any university law, not in the 1990s, not in the 2002s, not in the 2005s, it's a condition that someone who needs to be chosen to call a doctor needs experience in assistant work. It's necessary to be a doctor of science, to have certain scientific papers, a certain experience in this teaching work. So there's no condition for assistant work. The university's statute has expanded and it's interesting that she's the only one who's dropped the exam. All the other professors went through the follow-up checks. The statute of university in several places says that, simply none of the professors chosen at the time or who worked or worked at the Faculty of Medicine, when applying this university statute in the way that it was applied to Mrs Belic, could not be elected, because many of them who are now extraordinary and regular professors were not assistants. If you need experience in assistant work, then they don't meet the requirements. It's interesting that it's only in her case respected. I'm mentioning this to you for the reason it was the subject of the work of the judiciary. Mrs. Belic won, her lawsuit was passed at the Municipal and District Court in Novi Sad, and I must say that the judgment of the Municipality court in Novi Sad is one of the few I have read these few years, which is clearly, clearly written and does not need a great ability to understand what it says, but unfortunately it is disputed. The medical college has appeared as the other side and it has been accepted by the Serbian Supreme Court, where it is not questionable what is written in these judgments, but rather the autonomy of the university. If Serbia's Supreme Court judge considers the university statute to be older than the law, then there is no further discussion of what is older, chicken or chicken. So for the Supreme Court judge, the statute of the university is older than the University Law. Unfortunately, this woman has not been re-elected as a doctor or an extraordinary professor, and now she's just trying to get that legal satisfaction in court, since she's obviously no longer for that work. I have to mention another case of one man from Kurzumlia Djordjevic Djordje, who worked for 33 years in one company, which was declared a technological surplus. For this company, ŠIK Kurzumli, the Ministry of Social Affairs has allocated the funds, you know, the technological surplus, the social programme, and a few million dinars to the company. That man was supposed to have 198,000 dinars. Even to this day, and much time has passed, this man did not receive those funds, although they are strictly, strictly purposeful. It was not worth the judgment of the Court of Justice in Kursumlia, nor was it worthy of the judgment of the District Court in Kursumlia. One executive judge did so in a way that a simple man would never receive the funds he was legally entitled to, which are strictly intended. Even the Nis Trade Court drowned those assets in a mass where creditors determined the fate of these funds, and the strictly dedicated funds of the state were drowned in that mass. What I'm saying to fellow Members of the People, of course not present here, but generally some of these topics may seem too high. Believe me, this is the only opportunity for us to publicly comment on the work of the people of the judiciary and to hear it. Government representatives didn't listen to me very carefully, because I mentioned both health care and university, but they were subject to the work of the judiciary. Don't, no offense, to hear only one side of the story, the story is very complex, and that's why I'm telling it, because personally I think it's good that we MPs talk about this as much as possible, with as many arguments as possible, because it's the only way that when we choose the holders of the judicial functions of quality people to bring them to the responsible places, and on the other hand that those who do realize that they are not protected by the esnaf, that there is a National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and MPs who will talk about it openly and who will brand all the negative phenomena.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u24020	Here you are, Velimir Simonovic by the Rules of Procedure, personally mentioned. Mr. Krstin, I'm afraid, since it's until 6:00 today, it's not an extended time, I'm afraid it won't be possible but in the morning. Here you go, Mr. Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u24021	Comment only on Mr Obradovic's remarks. I'm surprised there's a statute that could've gotten into something like that. We can choose directly from some regular professor that he was never an assistant at all. To be one directly for a regular professor, if he has qualifications appropriate. So much for that. Do you allow me to look back at this point briefly? You're welcome. As an MP, I would be most pleased if I could have full confidence in the High Council of Justice. There are professional people, high morals, with full personal integrity, and that I'm just voting here. However, I can see that last time, it was so that some MPs disputed some elections, probably with some reasons, that's not what I'm getting into, but I'm afraid that some time we MPs are not wrong. Last time there was a case that one candidate was not elected president of the municipal court in one place, because we trusted the MP who challenged his choice. I later received information that it was a very high-quality candidate and when a re-opening competition for the President of the Court of Justice in that place is called, I will personally refer the judge to the motion to run again and support him here in this courtroom.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-14-0.u24022	Thank you, Mr. Simonovic, for paying attention to an important problem. Me and many MPs have received similar information. Here you go, Mr. Cvetkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. (Petar Cvetkovic, from the post: As an authorised representative. I'm sorry, as an authorised representative, but we only work till six, that's enough for you. Then I'll leave you for the morning. We'll continue at 10.00 tomorrow. The first will be said by the authorised representative of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, Marko Krstin, then MP Petar Cvetkovic, the authorised DSS representative. I know you are unable to attend from the beginning, and neither you, Mrs. Skero, nor you, Mr. Stojkovic, because of your commitments, but MPs will have an understanding. Thank you.
