ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20740	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for a long period of time, the law on public roads is waiting for the assembly procedure, unfortunately, it was too late for other laws. However, the EU is extremely large, especially banks that finance road construction, insist that this law be adopted as soon as possible, because today's Budgeted Directorate will separate into a public company that will have its own board of directors and which will be able to operate as well as other public enterprises. What is important about this law, and why is it insisting on doing so? You know that the roads in one country are the flow of the state and that they are the basic basis for the development of a country. That is why building road infrastructure is very important for every country, and of course for Serbia. However, because of a variety of problems, for years when budget rebalancing was being done, we removed some of the funds right off the roads, so we always went with slightly lower funds than budget-planned funds. What is this law going to change? It will change that today's Road Directorate, and the future public road company of Serbia will have constant revenues that we will not be able to download in the course of the year with any rebalancing. That is why it is also proposed in the law that 10% of excise duty or through amendments have a proposal of 5% of the retail price of gasoline, which is allocated to the road fund. It is true that in other countries of Europe, these funds are much larger, but the problem in Serbia is that we have a number of budgetary problems and that we cannot invest extremely much in road infrastructure, as it is in the world. The Road Directorate, when transformed into a public enterprise that will have its multilateral board of directors, will also be able to be in debt. It will be able to draw credit lines, take short-term credits, pay off performers and not have to use procedures to borrow from state guarantees through congregation procedures, but as any public company will be able to act very quickly and efficiently at the moment when it needs a certain number of funds to bridge some period of construction with the contractor. This law is a modern European law that is primarily in line with banks that finance travel infrastructure in Europe. The law had to be agreed by both the World Bank and the European Investment Bank, the EBRD and all other institutions dealing with the road economy and the financing of road infrastructure in Europe. It's our pleasure that when we start building our roads more intensively. And so far, we've done it as much as possible, but now we're going to have more constant revenues and we're going to be able to plan funds that no one will ever be able to reduce, reduce and throw down the various rebalancing of certain projects over the year. I hope you will support this law. This is a modern European law modelling all European countries, and this new law on public roads will improve road maintenance, and in particular improve road infrastructure and build new roads in Serbia. You know we're getting into road infrastructure concessions very quickly. This modern law will speed up and significantly improve. Therefore, I ask you to support this law, because it will mean a lot in Serbia to build road infrastructure and also to maintain existing roads. I expect an argument, I expect you to say everything that's right, maybe the law isn't the best, maybe make it even better with your amendments, participate in the debate, of course correct. Let us adopt this law and solve a very important problem, and these are Serbia's public roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20741	Thank you. Does the reporter of the board of directors want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Bojan Kekic, an authorised representative of the SPS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20742	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow Members of Parliament, is my special pleasure when it comes to roads and travel business, which I am authorized to represent the SPS for the reason that in my career I have had the opportunity to spend three years with the passengers, given the functions on which I have been, to participate in the construction of the M-24 Master's Road through Pogorjevac, i.e. the bypass around Pogorec, and to understand what kind of business is, how important it is and what is most important for the road and economy at all. That's when I realized that butters are people and economic activity where you see everything you do, and you see what you don't do. I appeal to a professional discussion that will be conducted under the Law on Roads, considering, above all, that the winter maintenance of roads that are on the burden of the road, and the overcoming of the current law, which was passed in 1991, gives us the right to speak immediately and at first about a very systematic and very good law which has understood all the currentity of the pathways and us as a user of roads. I would point out, first of all, the management and formation of a new public enterprise, I would call it the owner of a public enterprise, given that it will have great responsibility in maintaining roads. Also, the basic and biggest problem with the tolls is certainly funding. I have submitted an amendment to Article 16 of the Law only for the reasons that the Republic Directorate, or future public enterprise, tolls may receive certain financial resources increased by some percentage to fulfill their basic activity. I am sorry that the Transport and Communications Committee was not held, since the colleague, who sits in the front row with Minister Ilic, explained to us in that part, before the meeting of the Traffic Committee, how much damage is done, how many accidents occur and how many people are killed, how much damage is suffered because we do not have enough financial resources to bring roads, i.e. freeways, regional and all others into that functional state to manage safely. That's the data that was fraternizing. I would ask that in any of the future discussions we hear these data, then you will understand how important this amendment of mine is, to increase this particular amount. Also, I would say, since there is a minister, that in the Government, or the Privatisation Agency, all companies dealing with the road economy in privatization would automatically return the funds, which are obtained by privatisation, to the public road management company. This would result in initial, first and basic funds that would be outside of this budget, i.e. the entire scale that speaks of road financing. I'm sure those emergency supplies would have contributed a lot. I'm not far from thinking that all those companies that do business work through and across the roads, first of all, I'm thinking of self-transport, bus companies, that they return their own funds, which they choose by privatizing, to the road. Surely I can't get out what it is to calculate, since I'm not on the Privatisation Committee and I don't know what the financial effects would be, but I'm convinced and I'm sure they're not small funds. Since the Rules of Procedure allowed us to discuss amendments in principle and after the principle of discussion, I would suggest only a few basic amendments that I have submitted. In these first ten minutes, I will talk about these amendments for the reason that the discussion should show whether to withdraw those amendments or leave them. I have submitted amendments to Articles 5, 16 and Article 51. Article 5 states that the government of the Republic of Serbia should adopt an act on the categorisation of roads. In the current legal solutions, we have had the existence of highways, regional roads, and these are the roads for which the Republic Directorate for Roads and Local Roads was in charge, for which local self-government was in charge. The law now provides for the so-called so-called law. four categories: first-class state roads, second-class state roads, municipal roads and streets. In view of the MPs, the public as a whole, it is very important that the government prescribes criteria, and that the Serbian Parliament adopts an act on the categorisation of roads. In time, roads were built that connected certain regions, not to say states, but certain municipalities, yesterday on the parliamentary group with Minister Ilic, we agreed and whether this amendment was a burden on the Assembly, since who knows how much it requires, so it means a lot to this category of funding. It was my obligation, given that I submitted the amendment, to initiate the right to discuss. When it comes to Article 16, which predicts 10% of excise duty, in the second or third indent, to cross the financing of roads, my amendment refers to 5% of the retail price of oil products, which would be a clean situation and the future public enterprise would have a smooth, and what is most important, as the minister said, continuous income. I underline, it is very important that the funds of privatisation, that the funds collected from companies, which are engaged and established to deal with road work, and the autotransport companies, which carry out their activities, are precisely thanks to the roads, and they are also in the interest of being – to be fixed funds and to be converted from the Privatisation Agency to this new public enterprise. Turns out I'm a big fan of the law, but it's studioy and systematic. It meant a lot to me when I read the section – protection of the public road. In the current law and rules, we had roads protected, i.e. how they were used, so for this particular reason I submitted an amendment for overuse of the public road. The Institute – too much use of the public road is well explained in Article 51. He says, above all, that heavy loads, or trucks, that are constantly passing through a traffic station, which will be the competent state, or public enterprise, that individual companies, which thus make up for these routes, will have to make up for it. The situation of the fireman-Kostolac, where for years there's a piece of coal going on heavy trucks, or a situation where certain cementists carry large trucks of cargo, surely destroys and that's not normal use of that road. Also, individual forest administrations, not just individual ones, but all forest administrations use highways and regional routes to transport and achieve their work. So what is fundamental and characteristic of my amendment is that the minister, through his professional services, will be obliged and obliged to make a decision to charge for the use of that route. Surely there will be certain attacks on this amendment or not accepting this amendment. Some public companies, such as EPS, such as NIS, will say, pay a certain rent, but they pay a certain rent for the use of natural wealth, for coal, for oil, do not pay any rent because they use the way excessively, that is, why it is formed, why it is made and do not pay any rent. It is certain that the minister will not want certain public enterprises or businesses to finance the entire route, but the damage caused by the continued definition, as well as the damage caused by specific transport will be charged. I'll use the other ten minutes when I hear the other discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20743	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia until the opening of a search for a word application, in writing, in order of the MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of SRS, DSS, G17 plus and SPS. The People's Messenger, Hranislav Peric, has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Blagoja Krajinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20744	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I won't talk much about the law and what the law says, what's in the law, I think it's good. There's a lot that this law didn't predict, and it's got road problems. The law only covered one part of the problem in this area. I honestly expected that the law would be comprehensive and that it would solve all problems on all roads in Serbia, and in the first place I was thinking about local roads. When we adopt this law, the issue of highways and republican roads will be resolved, while local roads in poorly developed and small municipalities will be unresolved, especially to the village in the mountainous and mountainous area. There is no one to worry about roads to remote villages in small municipalities, and municipalities have no money, the state did not foresee it in law. The law provides for new categories of roads to be re-defined. I'm afraid some roads that were republican and pass through small municipalities don't cross into local roads that the municipalities will take care of. The new law should only confirm the categorisation of roads so far and foreseeable, due to the new situation, that only some local roads can be translated into republican roads. I must remind myself that local roads were built from village to village in smaller municipalities, as it was in my Meroshini. To get to the village asphalt, each village had to seduce self - contribution, plus municipal self - contribution and more participation in the workforce. Citizens built their own roads to their own village. Since these are now mutilated roads, the municipality, since there is no money, from what little it collects from local taxis and registrations, gets to every winter, patch up the holes so that no traffic is interrupted in winter. The next winter, again, you have to do it before every winter. It's like the winter you have to prepare the winter. What is not foreseen by this law, which should have been, is that the construction of roads should also include those that do the most damage on these roads, which are in the hill-mounted areas of the forest administration that transport wood, then those that carry gravel and sand to heavy trucks, transporting mines, as well as transporting businesses that transport passengers from the village to the city by buses. The bus ride from Merošin villages to Nis is expensive, and Nisexpress doesn't single out a dinar from the map for the use of the road, and when the holes appear on the roads, they inform the municipality that they will cancel the transport on the road. Why didn't this law regulate this question to create a commitment for such businesses to repair the roads they use. For all of this, we Socialists propose to set up a road fund for mountain-mounted villages in small and undeveloped municipalities. The government or the minister will say it's good and there's no money. I claim that only one or two kilometres of highway work is required during the year, a road adaptation of up to 50 villages in small municipalities would be made. I therefore propose that the minister propose to the government to set up a fund for mountain-mounted areas in small and undeveloped municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20745	Thank you. The Messenger of the people is Blagoja Krajinovic, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Milka Silaiev.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20746	The general objection that this law and all other laws do not accept is that the transfer of full powers from the Ministry to the hands of the minister and in this law is evident. As a small god, he will decide and take care of everything in the future, including this, as he says in his explanation, extended and increased control over the enforcement of laws and other regulations on public roads, and in connection with this and the wider powers of the Republic's road maintenance inspection, the control of criminal measures for non-compliance with the provisions of this new law, the harmonisation of the level of fines for commercial offences and violations, etc. It's just the minister's worth. He's the one who's been giving an interpretation of his overindulgence, I think he's gonna get a headache. The second is the establishment of new services, the multiplication of administration, and in this case it is not an agency, in this case it is a public enterprise. It's the current directorate. It is also an interesting argument given by the minister when rejecting one of the amendments, which is an amendment to Article 2 where it is said that the road manager is a public company registered to carry out the work of public roads management. You reject this amendment by saying that it is not accepted for the reason that the provision of Article 18 is point 10. The Law on Local Self-Government stipulates that the municipality is responsible for providing and determining the conduct of works relating to construction through its bodies, in accordance with the Constitution and law, etc. In your first quote, you say that management of state public roads as an action of general interest and strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia will be carried out by a public company set up by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This is a difficult colitision, this is impossible. You yourself admit that this is both against the law and against the constitution, but you are still not giving up the formation of a public enterprise. One of my remarks is to article 44. The provisions of this article prohibit certain public roads activities, and that is seemingly good, but the question is who will sanction these banned state roads, because under the proposal of this law, the supervision of the conduct of state roads has a republican traffic inspector. Today, only two inspectors cover the territory of the AP Vojvodina. That supermen can't look and see every irregularity and especially physically can't react in time. My conclusion is, and the proposal, to make these bans i.e. The whole member was to be transferred to a future traffic safety law on the roads, where surveillance would be carried out by the only ones who could carry it out, which is, in fact, traffic police. Personally, I don't see any major changes, especially those that will bring some major improvement, and those that have been introduced in this law are, in my opinion, a failure. That's why I don't think we should vote for this law. I ask the MPs to reject this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20747	The People's Messenger Milka Silajev has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20748	The Honorable Presidency, respected gentlemen of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, is a law on public roads, one of the very important laws for this country. You know that the arrival of foreign capital is in line with the development of the infrastructure of a country, because the arrival of re-romitarians and finished products is related to traffic infrastructure. Therefore, he is very important and it is good that he is on the agenda. What is the basic problem that solves this law on public roads? The Road Directorate would change its status and organise itself as a public enterprise and as such could finance maintenance, reconstruction, rehabilitation and the construction of a road network in the Republic of Serbia. As a public enterprise, it will be able not only to be in debt on the financial market to provide funds for the development of road infrastructure, funding, construction and reconstruction of protection and maintenance, and are provided from public road charges to be transferred to public enterprises by the ministry, compensation for maintaining the state road of 10% of excise duty on oil derivatives, and these funds are recorded in the special account of the Treasury of the Republic of Serbia, financial credits, investment of domestic and foreign persons, the budgets of the Republic of Serbia and other sources. Article 17 provides for payment methods for fees and for members from 18 to 23 distributions of those fees. Under this law, tolls will receive a fixed amount of 10% decommissioning from oil derivatives, which would mean revenue of about five billion dinars per year. Serbia's budget for the road economy, i.e. construction, maintenance and reconstruction in 2003, for example, was set for 7.4 billion. Last year, the projected funds amounted to 6.4 billion, and before the end of the year, the funds were reduced to 3.6. This year, the budget envisions 5.5 billion, but is realistically counting on 2.5 billion, which is far less than necessary. Meanwhile, there was an increase in toll and this further increased revenue. So more means of travellers could provide if the Serbian Parliament adopts a law on roads, which would allow the current directorate to be transformed into a public enterprise -- the Ways of Serbia. G17 plus will support this law, because we think it speeds up the whole state's restructuring process. However, as important as the adoption of these road laws within the framework of this, a traffic development strategy in the Republic of Serbia is normally needed. Serbia has, as we know, certain resources, which are position, country and people. The situation gives the possibility to develop traffic, the country gives the possibility to develop agriculture. We have a strategy to develop agriculture, but we don't have a traffic development strategy. Telecommunications, post office, railway, and congregation procedures are now the law on public roads. Water law is expected, but we do not have a traffic development strategy in Serbia. Serbia is surrounded by projects financed by the EU, which relate to the construction of these and the reconstruction of existing highways, railways, the construction of new multimodal nodes, as well as the accompanying infrastructure along the internal waterways. In recent years, the construction of the so-called so-called construction has been potential through various European projects in the region. via Via Egnatia through Greece, Corridor 8 – through Bulgaria, Macedonia and Albania and the works of Corridor 9 – through Romania, otherwise the biggest competitor of Corridor 10 in Serbia. Europe continues to pay great attention to corridor 10, as well as to the Danube, or Corridor 7, by treating this traffic station as a investment priority in all other countries, except Serbia. These pan-European corridors in the work through Serbia are not among the priorities of a trans-European traffic station based on a report by the EU Transport High Group, so-called. Van der Mirt's report, which was published in mid-2003. Romania, Bulgaria, Croatia are closer to joining the EU, and for political reasons, Corridor 10, as well as other pan-European traffic routes passing through those countries, have been treated as a priority. For these reasons, Serbia is surrounded by travel projects financed by the EU. Politics has ruled that such an important priority as part of the current TENT project, Trans-European Transport Network, defines Corridor 4, which is similar to Corridor 10, should join Budapest, i.e. Western Europe with the Black and Aegean Sea, although it should be built through much more inaccessible terrain than those through which Corridor 10 passes, and it is about 250km longer. Corridor 10 is very important for connecting Western Europe with the Middle East and it would be normal for it to focus on the end of that corridor and its arms, rather than on building kilometers of a new highway on the section of Corridor 10 and 4 – from Salzburg to Istanbul, over 1,750 kilometers long. Only 300km of highways are missing, while only part of Corridor 4 through Romania, including the Danube 2 bridge near Calafat, is to be built in the next five years. This is not logical, but it is a decision made for purely political reasons, as Bulgaria and Romania are in the advanced stages of EU accession and Europe prefers them to other countries that are not, especially Western Balkan countries. It is precisely these countries that have been granted access to certain EU funds, such as ISPA and the PHARE programme, and will soon have access to cohesion funds. Serbia has all its funds so far unreachable and will be closer to it only when it signs its accession treaty. Serbia must have a traffic development strategy to fight to convince the authorities in Europe to return lost investment priorities. In addition to Serbia, priority status should be restored to corridor 10, namely what is now called the Salzburg-Belgrade-Skoplje-Salun multimodal axis with the following shorts, as well as 600km of waterway through the Danube. The High Transport Working Group accepted in principle road-building and rail reconstruction projects on corridor 10 and the Danube waterway through Serbia, which means they are among the EU's priorities. The value of the projects offered is over two billion euros and envisions a continuation of the construction of road, i.e. highway profiles and two-way lines on corridor 10, the extension of railway tunnel and bridges, the construction of multimodal centres in Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis and other works that will allow traffic infrastructure to be brought to a level that will be useful for Serbia, the region and Europe as a whole. In addition to the quality of transport infrastructure along the European corridors through Serbia, a key role will be played by border crossings to retain and attract goods transport. Truck drivers, therefore, loaded with goods will be able, thanks to the unique documents in that direction, to pass uninterrupted, not thinking of losing two to three days at customs, tolls will pay significantly more than their counterparts in Serbia. It must have great importance to have a project of integrated borders, i.e. civil control and modernisation of interstate crossings that should prevent unnecessary retention of goods through simplification of customs and other administrative procedures. It is necessary that Serbia has a traffic development strategy in line with European trends and, while fighting for our projects to be Europe's priorities at the same time. In order to achieve all of this, priorities and funding methods should be defined, because we have limited resources, in order to break down into less important directions than those that would bring resources to the state to build basic important corridors for the whole country, and they would bring road resources less important to the state. It is an important definition of how it will be financed, and all these issues need to be answered by the strategy. The G17 will support the road law, but at the same time potentiate and requires the Ministry of Transport to adopt a traffic development strategy in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20749	The word has the People's MP Nemanja Sarovic, I apologize, the first authorised representative of Aleksandar Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20750	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for a long time this bill and the legislative project, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia prepared in half of February of the current year, in the assembly procedure, and at this session is on the agenda. So, the proposal for a law on public roads, which the government submitted to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption, is a system law and a legal project that should regulate the legal position of public roads in the Republic of Serbia. The adoption of the law on the public roads of the Republic of Serbia has special importance; when regulating the legal regulatory public roads, it should be kept in mind that this legislative project submitted by the government to the National Assembly should be done properly. The SRS has submitted a number of amendments to the Bill on Public Paths, believing that the law did not precisely regulate this matter that is very important for the Republic of Serbia and for all citizens in the Republic of Serbia. The legislative project on public roads had to consist of several important segments and had to be fully linked to the Law on Construction and Planning, as well as the Law on concessions of the Republic of Serbia. We all know that Serbia is a transit country, to join Western Europe with the East, and that having such a geographical position tells us how important it is that Serbia has a clear strategy when it comes to public roads in Serbia. The authorised representative of one of the ruling parties made that clear in the previous presentation. Thus, the bill on public roads must contain, above all, a national strategy and this legislative project should be regulated by legislation, set criteria, lay down conditions, how public roads are managed, as well as the protection and maintenance of public roads. What the SRS resents the promoter, this government, is that this law had to be clearly and precisely defined by a national strategy that this law does not contain. For this reason, the SRS will not support this bill, and the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, should adopt a strategy to determine the objectives, plan and development of the public roads of the Republic of Serbia, precisely because the Republic of Serbia is a transit country. I listened carefully to the minister when he spoke. In one part, we can also agree on the reasons for the adoption of the law when the government signed this law, and it is said, above all, that funding and maintenance, reconstruction and rehabilitation, the construction of a road network in the Republic of Serbia, are made out of funds provided by international public financial institutions, and that is the EBRD and the World Bank, based on contracts concluded and whose realisation is under way. The next point is that the credit agreements contain a clause under which the withdrawal of the credit tranche is conditioned by the change in the status of the Republic Road Directorate, or by its organisation as a public undertaking. In this part, we fully agree that a public enterprise, the founder of which is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, should manage public roads. What we cannot agree on is that public roads should, according to Article two of the Bills, be managed by private entrepreneurs. We're on Article 2. The bill was submitted by the amendment of the SRS and by many members in this bill which we believe are not in a clear way, i.e. they do not resolve the area of legal regulation, i.e. the areas of the public roads of the Republic of Serbia. In view of the importance of first and second-row state routes, as well as municipal roads, this law does not clearly show who manages these routes and how it is regulated by this legislative proposal. First of all, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, should have adopted a clear strategy establishing the objectives and plans of the development of public roads in the Republic of Serbia, and what this strategy does, therefore, to a serious state and a serious government leading the country, we do not have any national strategy in this bill. Why is there no analysis of the state of travel in the Republic of Serbia? What, in this bill of law, is a development policy in the field of public roads? Where are the basic criteria for building public roads set out in this legislative proposal? What is the priority and priorities of building and maintaining state roads? So, the priority in building and maintaining public roads, according to the SRS concept, above all, is the development policy of the Republic of Serbia in this area, established and based on spatial, traffic, technical, ecological, demographic analyses, with justified traffic-technical solutions, to increase security, capacity and traffic flows. The law does not show what a programme of building and maintaining public roads is, on a proposal from the competent ministry, to bring the government of the Republic of Serbia for a period of four years, all in line with a national strategy that does not exist in this law. So, the question is raised before the MPs, in front of this assembly, in front of the public and the citizens of Serbia – why did this legislative project have no solution to the issue of national strategies when it comes to the public roads of the Republic of Serbia? The legal solution, which says that the law should enter into force on 1 April 2005, and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia rejects all amendments to the SRS and other political parties, whose representatives submitted amendments to the proposal for this law, says that only one amendment has been adopted, and this is the first amendment that addresses the issue of when the law comes into force and tells you that it is important for you to adopt this law as soon as possible. I can understand the minister who spoke mildly in his presentation about the discussion of this speaker, the cross-referencing of opinions, etc. What is important and what my colleague said before me, there is no strategy here on the development of roads in Serbia. The SRS has tried every possible way to regulate this legislative project by these amendments, which has been made in an inaccurate and confusing way. We believe this law should have been passed much earlier. When you formed the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with your programme, you should have come out with a national strategy. Apparently, the Serbian government did not have a clear programme in this area. For that very reason, it is too late to pass this law. What the SRS blames is that this legislative project had to be drawn up precisely on the national strategy, on the agenda and on development, so that, above all, the Government of the Republic of Serbia should submit a report to the National Assembly on the implemented road development programme in Serbia, construction, etc. every year. You've been in power for two years. Therefore, this report was required to be submitted to the National Assembly, of course, that this law was passed with a national strategy. The SRS has tried to amend this bill with amendments. It was simply impossible to do so, since the law on public roads, and we watched some of the laws it had passed, for example. The Slovenian assembly, which has a clear national strategy on the development of state roads, they say, of state roads. And the Croatian Parliament has passed a far better law. Incredibly, the government has put one of these laws, which is confusing and imprecise, to be adopted. We believe that this legislative proposal should be withdrawn from the agenda, because there is no national public road development strategy. It is a basis that makes up a bill that should be in the interest of all citizens of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia. What is the essence of the SRS, we will continue to talk, when we talk about the amendments we have submitted, about this bill. We believe that this legislative proposal should have been regulated in a more precise way by the ruling coalition, headed by the DSS. Based on the fact that you have rejected all the amendments that we have submitted to the National Assembly, I will set an example of how the Government and those who have submitted these amendments to us, how much they cared about what these amendments say. For example, we have submitted an amendment to add a new Article 2a after Article 2a, which reads: "public roads and untegrated roads are generally good in the state property of the Republic of Serbia and cannot be obtained by the right of ownership, and other real rights can be exercised under special laws." In the explanation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the following is said: firstly, the amendment presented here as an amendment to the SRS is not an amendment that we have submitted to the National Assembly. Article 2a states: "The public roads and untegorised roads are generally good in the state property of the Republic of Serbia and cannot be acquired by the right of ownership". We didn't mention it in the amendment. This is a completely different amendment. It's obvious that she was the ministry that was watching the SRS amendments made a big mistake. We have made it clear in reason that we believe that this new member precisely defines the legal status of public roads and untegorised routes of the Republic of Serbia. It only speaks of how important it is for the government of the Republic of Serbia to speed up the adoption of this law in any way, by the fact that it has been delayed for some time. We can't help but draw your attention that these things shouldn't happen and that the government can't treat one of the MPs in this way. That's a fact. We have submitted an amendment that it cannot, and in this bill you have presented to us that we have written a completely different amendment. That says how much you've taken care of our amendments. When we talk about this bill, we talk with some clear concept and a clear programme that the SRS has and that it had when our representatives spoke, when it came to the Law on Railways, and at all when we talk about public roads. So that's the facts. This case shows how much you did not take care of it and the amendments submitted by the MPs of the Republika Srpska Assembly. That we are absolutely right, speaking and exposing one of the authorised representatives of your coalition partners, who will vote in favour of the law you have proposed, although not well-conceived, is not precise and does not address the issue of public roads in the manner that we should, given that we are a transit country, that we need to regulate legal legislation, when it comes to the area of public roads, in an appropriate manner. We agree with you only in one part, which is that a public enterprise, the founder of which is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, should be the manager of public roads. The SRS believes that the ministry is responsible for the issue of public roads, in a way that speaks only of nature as laws are passed in the ruling majority, has decided to bring this legislative project in haste, not to be considered in the right way to amend parliamentary groups, which have been submitted to the National Assembly. I think we have enough arguments and right on this Article 2a, where you presented that the SRS Parliament Club has submitted some other amendment and you gave us the answer that you gave, in an explanation. The fact is that the SRS has tried to fix with amendments a legal solution that is misconceived, which is not good in this area and will not solve matter properly. We believe that we in Serbia must have quality law-making and that this assembly must pass quality laws, when it comes to areas such as public roads. I said that I could agree in one part with Mr. Minister's presentation, when he spoke about a public enterprise, on the reasons for the law being passed, and I made it clear in my presentation, and what we cannot agree on is a confusingly incorrect law, a law which aims only to be passed for the reasons mentioned, because of the World Bank, recommendations from the Council of Europe, credits, etc. The point is that the law stood in the assembly procedure for six months, that it had now come to the agenda, we expected this law that you submitted to the National Assembly to have a clear concept, to be precise, to have a national strategy to address issues of public roads in Serbia. Serbia is, above all, a transit country. That is all we can say for this speaker as the strongest party in Serbia. The SRS will surely, when elections are discussed, and it will be asked very soon, that many of the legal projects you've been making in such an incorrect way, just to have a number that you've passed so many laws, you'll have to fix it all. All the nature of this government has also proved to be in the case of this law on public roads. As for the SRS, we will have the opportunity to talk and when we speak in detail about the amendments that we have submitted to the National Assembly, so the minister will have to talk to us for a long time. We believe it is best for the government of the Republic of Serbia to withdraw this legislative project from the agenda and when it draws up a precise law, when it has its own national road development strategy in Serbia, that such a solution should be submitted to the National Assembly rather than a solution that does not address the issue of public roads in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20751	Thank you. The word has a minister of capital investment, Mr Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20752	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to clarify something so that we don't waste time in the debates and that we don't criticise something that's done here, and it's done the way it's best to do it and end it. It is not true that there is no strategy for traffic development, it is not true that there is no traffic strategy. The traffic strategy has been under way and its construction has been under way for a year. Serbia is an integral part of Europe and the EU's transport network. It's not true that someone here was discussing that corridors 10 are in some other plan. At the EU ministerial conference, where we have attended, it is agreed that the priority is Corridor 10, and Corridor 9 through Romania and Bulgaria is not recognised as a European corridor. It is true that there is a strategy to develop Serbia's traffic, but not a road development strategy, road traffic, but a strategy to develop traffic, waterways, railways, air traffic and, of course, road traffic. It is true that we are asked to discuss an international tender for the creation of a strategy, because we are part of Europe, and the job in the tender has been given Sweden. In a few months, the strategy will be over and you will be able to see that strategy. Of course, this law on public roads has been incorporated into European law and all consent has been obtained. The strategy team gave an extremely positive opinion on this law. So don't talk nonsense here and talk about something that you're going to make some development strategy that Europe's top experts are currently doing, because they got a job in an international tender. This tender is funded by the European Agency for Reconstruction, so we would stay in the strategy of developing this combined transport that Europe is now looking for, and this is a quick transition from rail to waterways, from waterways to roadways, from road to air-transport. It's a very complex strategy and we're seriously preparing it. That's exactly what one of the MPs here said, that in some countries there's less toll, that some countries have better roads, etc. I now give you an example: BiH invests 10% of the retail price of gasoline, Croatia 14% of the retail price of gasoline, Belgium 42% of the retail price of gasoline, Germany 42%, Great Britain 54% of the retail price of gasoline; 10% of the excise duty when calculated for the retail price of gasoline, that is 4%. Serbia stands out 4% because of the state's situation, gentlemen. Every year, it decreased because of budget needs. Now with 4% of the retail price of gasoline, I'd like to see that magician who's going to do it, and you've seen how much work and construction was done this year in Serbia, and that's why I don't give you the right to work and build a little bit. With this much resources, it's been built and worked, with an extremely good organization. So, the development strategy is under way and this is the most modern strategy, as European laws require. We've totally accepted that, and we're really fitting in. This ministry has been praised by all European institutions for what appears to be traffic and what we have done in a very short time, as it appears on Serbia's roads. Walk to Macedonia, Montenegro in the main directions, look towards Croatia, everything has been reconstructed and brought to order lately. My lords, don't just criticize for criticism. Be reasoned, clear and loud, and what you do not know – ask, I am very ready to explain. It is true that some amendments to some political parties have not been considered, but it is also true that yesterday no party from the opposition came to the meeting of the Transport Committee to defend its amendment and to explain it, and no chairman came from any opposition party and the Committee could not be held. Therefore, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if we want to bring something serious to order, we must be present and enter into a debate. We sat in the assembly for hours and waited for the MPs of the opposition to come and discuss their amendments, but yesterday there was no chairman, no MP from the opposition, we had no quorum, because there was no one to hold a session and neither the president nor the vice president came, so we differed. Here, we can also talk about the law, but very clearly, very concretely, I will be very precise in my answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20753	Thank you. Before I give my word to the People's Messenger, Verjeta, according to the Rules of Procedure, it is my duty, Mr. Minister, to remind you that you treat MPs with due respect, because it is my duty to safeguard the dignity of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20754	It's late, Mr. Chairman. That's what you were supposed to say when the minister here said "stupid," not let him talk, so when you saw me react to the Rules of Procedure, then distract him. You have nothing to draw attention to, but you know how you should act on the Rules of Procedure and you should warn these two here, who applaud Minister Velija Ilic, that this is not a New Serbia meeting, that this is a Parliament, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and, if they do not know that they behave as they are asked and as the Rules of Procedure predicts, then they can come out freely, we can, and without them, we do not need the icabans here. (Velimir Ilic, from the place: The Lords are not from New Serbia. I can't believe they're not from New Serbia. So, Mr. Mikhailovich, article 104 has been broken. - People's MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. It's in the position of the first member. The rules of procedure also apply to government representatives, in particular to Minister Velimir Ilic, who first said in his story that he would explain something, that we are not wasting time. Mr. Minister, the National Assembly, the MPs don't waste time, we waste time, we work, but we don't waste time. If this is a waste of your time, go ahead, we can do without you. Furthermore, Minister Ilic says stop talking nonsense. This is really amazing, Velja Ilic heard everything in public, in the media, with journalists, with police, curses, insults, but it is his trademark, his image and that is also his problem. But to the MPs, the minister says they're talking nonsense without the chairman responding, it's really amazing. It's that you're 9 plus 9, but that's your problem. Here you must act, Mr. Mihailovich, in the role of the chairman, same to every MP, and certainly the minister must not allow himself to fall out in this age. The minister obviously messed up the pots. I understand his nervousness, he's probably nervous about this Sarancic, I guess that's what it's called, but I guess one day, very soon, to explain to the citizens of Serbia, so we'll see what the consequences of Minister Ilic, such as Sarancic, what Public Procurement Administration, etc. will have. But about that one. The minister is trying to explain something that's inexplicable. He revealed to us what fellow Djordjevic has repeated here several times, which is that there is no national strategy for road development in Serbia. The minister says yes, that's right, we've passed the law, and the strategy will be in a while. Is that logical? Is that normal? I guess the strategy makes the law, not the law-based strategy. (President: You're out of time. I'm done, thank you. What you don't know, ask – says Vela Ilic. This is really amazing. You're not here to explain to us what we don't know, because we know a lot more than you do. You are here to answer our questions and to ask questions to explain to Serbian citizens how much you don't know, how much you don't work, how bad you do, but you will hear it further in the debate. I'm sorry, so I won't come back again, I'm not happy with the answer you're planning to give me, because I know what you're going to tell me. I insist that the Assembly declares that you have hurt the Rules of Procedure, because you are alone, before I stopped for the pay phone, and you who are laughing, you were not there, you have no idea what you're laughing at, or what this is about. So before I went out for this payphone, you said:I am obliged to distract Minister Veli Ilic to take care of dignity. That way you've already admitted that you've injured this member of the Rules of Procedure. I insist that the Assembly declare this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20755	The assembly will declare in the voting day whether the Rules of Procedure has been injured. However, I will tell you that my discretionary right is when I will and how I will warn the speaker. I think this has been appropriate, given that this debate on the bill will continue, and we will still discuss with Mr. Minister. There is a word, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Alexander Djordjevic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20756	Replication to Mr Ilic's presentation, Minister of Capital Investments of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I've just said how much you've taken care of the amendments submitted by the MPs, and that's what this amendment says where you presented some other amendment, that it was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. Whether or not you've been robbed of a mistake, that's your problem. You can't tell from this pay phone that MPs at the National Assembly are talking nonsense. This is not a language suitable for one of the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is not a language that should be spoken in this assembly, to address the national MPs of the government of the Republic of Serbia, but that speaks of you. The fact is, we made it clear that there is no national strategy in this bill. That is why this bill on public roads, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to the National Assembly, is not good. In our presentations, and the exhibitions that we will have in the next time, we will continue to talk about exactly what some MPs from the ruling coalition also said, which also found that the law is not well-conceived, that there is no clear strategy on national development of public roads in the Republic of Serbia, but that, due to the fact that you remain in power for another month, you will vote for this bill. The essence of the SRS parliamentary group and our amendments to the National Assembly was to try to correct the bad legal project offered by the government to the National Assembly as much as possible. But the fact is that in the way you gave us the answer to Article 2a, in which we submitted the amendment to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or to the National Assembly, where you presented that we had submitted a completely different amendment, where the meaning of what we had submitted as a parliamentary group is lost, tells us how irresponsible the Government of the Republic of Serbia has come to these amendments. Mr. Minister, it is not true that no one was from the SRS on Friday and yesterday on the board, I was coming, there was only one representative from the ruling party. Those who gave it to you did not give you accurate information. I was coming, as one of those who wrote those amendments, on Friday and yesterday. Your colleagues had to inform you exactly, and when you speak for this speaker, you have to address us appropriately.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20757	Replica, the word has Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20758	Gentlemen, in this debate, there is a need for the Ministry and the Government to have no traffic development strategy. The strategy exists, was adopted in 1998, when Minister Todorovic of the SRS was in my place. The strategy is still applicable and was adopted in 1998, with importance by 2010. Since the then assembly was familiar with the strategy, it was adopted by 2010, and now the European Union has asked us to adapt it to new regulations, European Union regulations. It's a new strategy, which I was talking about, funded by the Development Agency. We're working on that strategy. In the tender, the job was given to a Swedish firm. That's what the world's biggest experts do and it'll be over in a month and you'll get it. So you can't go in and you can never work without a traffic development strategy. Gentlemen, I repeat, the 1998 strategy was adopted by 2010. The development strategy was worked by Mr. Todorovic, when he was the minister of transport of the Republic of Serbia. So let's not talk about the government having no strategy. The government has a development strategy and respects it, as we respect the Constitution that was adopted, of course in some previous time, until we bring in a new one. There's no development strategy at all, so let's say we have some kind of vacuum. So there are always certain strategies until they adopt a procedurally new one.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20759	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20760	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure. I guess that's what the chairman was supposed to mean. He didn't keep breaking it. I now advertise Article 100 to the MP who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, the president of the National Assembly, gives his word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed. Mr. Minister hasn't received his word yet, I've reported to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. And besides, Mr. Mikhailovich, you gave the Minister a word, not to me. The Rules of Procedure in Rule 104 were violated while Mr. Minister spoke here at a pay phone, and especially in the first position, so MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, and this applies to both the minister and anyone else who speaks for this speaker. Mr. Minister, something that, in a policy where there are certain rules, I think, has forgotten. Mr. Minister, there are at least 126 MPs behind you. Provide the majority for your laws in congregation bodies. Don't accuse the president of the Traffic Committee because it's immoral to accuse a man who doesn't attend the session, unless he's present for health reasons and for any other reason, it's immoral. You have changed the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Serbian Parliament so that two or three MPs can sit here and there is a quorum for the work of the Assembly with an explanation that the committees should review the laws and that it is impossible to provide a quorum on both the board and the Serbian Parliament. You don't have anywhere now, even though you've changed your Rules of Procedure. You expect the opposition to be the one to give you support for some laws. Then, obviously, you got some pots mixed up. It is time to wonder where those 126 MPs are standing behind you. Where are they? At committee meetings? They don't seem to trust you anymore, Mr. Minister. You accused the SRS of having no idea and of not knowing how to make a strategy. You're still using the strategy, and you've admitted it yourself, since 1998. Think about what you're talking about. You don't have your own strategy, that's what Mr. Djordjevic was going to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20761	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20762	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's the Minister's escape, which, of course, doesn't surprise us with him. I'm really not going to change anything I planned for my exposure, I'm going to talk to you like the minister's here. That's what his duty is. It is obvious that Mr. Ilic in his old well-known manner, and given the fact, and it is clear that he is not prepared enough for the interpretation of the law, tries to cite this debate to a completely different course. Instead of professionally explaining why we should vote in favour of this law here, to explain certain proposed legislative solutions, he came here to teach some lectures in his old custom, to insult MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and to do so not only the chairman, but all the other MPs in those parliamentary groups who support the Government of the Republic of Serbia had to do so. It should not be forgotten that MPs are directly elected representatives of citizens, that we represent citizens of the Republic of Serbia here, and that Minister Velimir Ilic and all other ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia are just ordinary civil servants. They depend here on our will and it depends on us whether Velimir Ilic will be Minister tomorrow or not. We've heard a lot of things here from the minister, we've heard MPs say stupid things, but we haven't heard the answer to those principled remarks we've had. First of all, as far as the finding itself is concerned, that amendments to certain parliamentary groups, and thought by the minister of the SRS task force, have not been considered. I don't think anyone's said anything like that in this House by now. It is the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider all amendments, such as the obligation of the Transport Committee, to consider these amendments and explain why some accept, or propose to the National Assembly, that other amendments be rejected. It is not clear on what grounds all the amendments of the SRS have been rejected, and we have submitted a total of 23 amendments. All 23 amendments have been rejected, we don't understand why, if the minister himself says they haven't even considered those amendments. So, the minister should know that there is no obligation of any MP, not only the opposition MPs, but any MP, to attend the committee session. It's thanks to your ruling majority. You've brought such a rulebook. In advance, we have warned of the devastating consequences that such decisions can produce. That's when you said that these are European tendencies, that it's modern, that it's in most European parliaments. Then I don't know why you're calling on things like this. It is particularly immoral that Velimir Ilic said that the chairman of the Assembly Committee on Traffic and Relations did not come. It's Dragoljub Stamenkovic from the SRS. It is well known to the Minister that he did not come for health reasons. My colleagues from other parliamentary groups know that. It's totally immoral and inhuman by the minister. And if it wasn't for that situation, you should know that instead of the chairman of the board, the vice-president may be chaired by the deputy, and the deputy is from the parliamentary majority. You, despite the fact that the SRS has the chairman of that committee, have the majority in the Committee on Traffic and Connections and that your MPs were worth enough and up-to-date and that they were even interested in what it says in the amendments to the SRS, you could gather yourself and maintain this Committee of Traffic and Connections yourself. Also, maintaining a committee, i.e. a session of the Transport and Connection Committee, is neither a condition nor a prerequisite for considering amendments at the cabinet's session, nor for adopting amendments at the cabinet's session. That's what the Prime Minister's fundamental mistake is and what he thinks these amendments are considering because of us or because of our parliamentary group. We did not tolerate the amendments because of Velimir Ilic. We did it for the citizens of Serbia and because we wanted to improve this law as far as possible. There's a lot of inaccuracy in this law, and enough is enough that we of the SRS could resent the legislator of this law. Article 2 explains the meaning of certain terms used in this law and where they are defined. For example, the State Road. It says, the state road is a public road that connects traffic, so it says, the territory of the country with a network of European roads, that is, part of a network of European roads; the territory of the country with the territory of neighbouring countries; the entire territory of the state. How is it possible that the public road connects the entire territory of the state? What is the part of the road connecting territory to a network of European roads? Is there a vacuum between the state of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia and some European roads? Of course it doesn't exist. Says the state road is also a road, which traffic connects the area of two or more districts or districts as well as its section that passes through the settlement in case a bypass road is not built by the settlement. So every next attitude is even more pointless than the previous one, and what that means is that it can connect two districts, it can connect one district. How can the road connect one county or part of the county or anything else? So defined as you've given it, it means that the state path can be anything, and at the same time, that this definition was neither needed nor completely pointless. Point 4 of Article 2 states that the highway is a state road intended exclusively for the traffic of motor vehicles with physically separated August in directions, deniveled intersections, full access control, which has at least two traffic and one stop lane for each direction and as such marked by a traffic sign. What I'd like to ask you is if there's any difference here compared to how the highway is regulated by the Law of Roads, which was passed in 1995 and which is today in force. Of course there is no difference, and I would like to point to a robbery of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which you have been conducting for years. It's just that, for example, The share of the road from Novi Sad to Saturday is charged daily to thousands and thousands of users as if it were the use of the highway, and it is clear to everyone who has ever passed that according to the Law on Roads, which is now in force and the Law on Public Roads, if it is voted, it cannot represent the highway. In this way, you are totally rude and inappropriately robbing citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You didn't provide the right conditions that should be in order to be on the highway and you'd have the right to set up payment ramps and charge for it, but you do. It did not occur to you to change these paths, to patch them up, so that we have European conditions that you are calling for, but so when the charge comes, then you call for Europe, so you say – we must, the European Community is pushing us and they are the same toll prices for domestic and foreign vehicles. Minister Ilic needed a little more attention to do so and to say when further toll collection would take place, as tolls had already accumulated several months ago and whether this level of price for vehicles with foreign plates and domestic plates would be evened in such a way as to find some medium price, whether to increase the price for domestic vehicles to the level of price for foreign vehicles, or what would be done at all. Furthermore, there is no clear concept here. On the one hand, you say the public road is a public road. When you explain the highway, because the public road is your basic category, then you should say that the highway is a public road, not that the highway is a state road. In point 5, you say that the municipal road is a public road that connects that and that. Then an untegrated route, you say that the untegrated route is a traffic area available to a large number of different users, which the competent authority declares to be an untegrated route and which is listed in the immovableity cataster as an untegrated path. It is unclear here whether an untegorised route is a public road, if given point 2) which says that the public road – a road that meets the prescribed criteria for categorisation by the competent authority and when you say that the untegrated route is categorized as such by the competent authority and entered into the motion category as untegorized, then it is a public road. Here, for example, in article 10, you say that a public company is required to organise toll collection, which is what you are most interested in, so that the flow of the vehicle is secured without any necessary congestion. It means that there is a certain necessary delay in the payment of the toll, but that the public undertaking is required to organise the payment without that delay that is necessary. This is logically completely missed. I don't know who wrote you this law, who translated it. If you'd listened a little bit to us from the SRS here, instead of a "necessary stalemate" you'd have put "necessary stalemate" on it, and then it would have made sense. In Article 17, you say that public road charges are paid for the use of public road and that is the annual fee for motor vehicles, tractors and vehicles, annual charges for motor vehicles not covered by point 1) of this Article. If the minister were there, he might try to answer us, but I'm sure he wouldn't have succeeded, which are vehicles that are not covered by point 1) of this article, because there are simply no motor vehicles, or motor vehicles that point 1) that are not covered by the general character. This shows, in another obvious way, a complete misunderstanding of this and a dilettant approach to this law, as well as many other laws by representatives of the ruling coalition. What is still very specific is a member of the 103rd law, which says the law enters into force on 1 April 2005. If Minister Ilic lost track of time somewhere, where he is, and apparently according to his behaviour towards representatives of the Assembly, he should know that today is October 25th, so that he wanted this law to enter into force on April 1st, then according to the Rules of Procedure, a certain procedure should be established, that this law will have a retroactive fact, and there are reasons for that. It is not appropriate, therefore, to now pass a law in the procedure submitted in February of this year. Since then, more than eight months have passed, the law remains an emergency procedure and if any urgency of the procedure existed, this law would have been on the agenda long ago. In your regular spring session, you could put this law on the agenda, you could have been in an emergency session, the Assembly held an emergency session all summer, now the Second Regular Session has come from the moment you handed over this law in the procedure, and you are still offering us a law by emergency procedure, but at the same time you are asking the National Assembly to have this law enter into force six months earlier. This is completely inappropriate, and I think it would be better if Minister Ilic instead of the passion he showed a little bit better read this law, to make a little more effort to make this law good, to respond here to what the citizens of Serbia are interested in, and that is perhaps more than this law, why without a tender are imported, i.e. buying Slovenian locomotives. Also, as a reason for the non-scheduling of the tender, there was an incredible urgency, because we needed these locomotives for the summer period. It's been months and months since this law was put into the assembly procedure, of course we haven't seen the locomotives yet, it's important that under uncompared conditions they've been ordered, but the minister instead of answering MPs' questions drinks a nice coffee outside, and then he'll probably come back at the end of the debate to say that he was very pleased with the discussion and that he had everything in mind, but the proposed solution is best, so vote for this. We in the SRS hold ourselves together, hold to this parliament, and invite our colleagues from the ruling coalition to behave in a similar manner, and I urge the chairman, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to take a break until Minister Ilic returns to the hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20763	The word has the People's MP Velimir Simonovic, and let the MP Branka Bosnjak be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20764	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I go to law school alone to say just two words about the Traffic and Connection Committee, since I'm a member of that committee and I know what's been going on these days. The board has been scheduled twice, has not been held because representatives of the SRS and the Democratic Party have not arrived. That's the only truth, everything else isn't true, and those two parties have a majority on that board. I won't comment on anything else. As far as the law itself is concerned, when I look at these fifty definitions, I might have some minor remark, but as they stand, there won't be any damage, and it'll probably be useful. What I want to say in the principle debate, that's with Head 2 of Public Road Management, and the 10th is what is being provided, traffic management, toll collection, and now I would like to draw attention to the fact that it was spoken of a few years ago, and there was even a parliamentary question asked by the Minister at the time, and it was about how to pay tolls, specifically on the highway, let's say Belgrade-Nish. I was getting information from people working on the highway that this membership fee was stolen, that it was placed in private pockets, etc. They didn't give me any concrete evidence that I could stand up as a folk MP with evidence, but the fact is that several thousand vehicles don't fall apart annually. So, the vehicle got on some ramp, you don't know where it went out, and there's no toll charge anyway. It was justified by some officials that there were military vehicles, that there was emergency aid, that there were police vehicles, but all in all this law could predict it, and today's technology allows such a charge to be provided that it's impossible for someone to pass the highway without paying the toll. In this regard, I would also mention, it is here with Article 17, point 13 - compensation for using the state road for vehicles registered abroad. You know they're foreign tourists, they've been rebelling for not paying the same toll as domestic vehicles, especially our citizens who live in different countries and come to the country of origin occasionally. I don't see that solution here, but it may be planned to introduce a single toll for all vehicles, wherever they are registered. I know, for example, if that hasn't been changed, when a vehicle enters Switzerland, it pays some toll at the border and there are no more ramps on their roads. He paid at the entrance, and as long as he's on that territory, there are no more ramps on the highways. Maybe it hasn't changed, maybe it still does. So, we may not be mature yet, but at least consider equating that toll. To get back to Article 15, it's about maintenance of roads. Please, it's nice that we make our way no matter who the rank is, whether it's the highway, the state road, the first or second rank, but we don't keep it well. Take the Belgrade-Nish highway, so you'll see how messy the metal fences are, how unprotected they are, not to mention the wire fences that stand on the side, because they are completely broken, in many places they don't exist, and that's very important. Not to mention less important roads that are not being maintained either. Take, for example, roads such as Valjevo-Minica, Ljig-Arangelovac, Čačak-Ivanjica, these are the roads, these are the public roads of the second row, not the municipal roads. They're being held up pretty badly. Like, you don't clean the canals of those roads. The fact that the canals are not clean and failures are not provided to accept water, causes the water to pour out on August, then winter weather comes, freezing and turning into ice, and the ice is very destroying the asphalt background as it is known. Most roads get killed during the winter, because no maintenance is provided. They've been abolished, so-called. Putari, and these are the people who maintain certain shares of those roads that are, say, the second row. They're not municipal, they're a bit of a higher rank. It's like they're inert, but I'm telling you, if they were to re-introduce to clean the matches, the canals, to cut the grass, that the effect of their work would be so that their wages would be almost negligible. Therefore, it is not true that this cannot be profitable, for there are tolls that will maintain the roads and meet them. There's now something here in Article 29 that, I'm afraid, is hardly feasible, that there's a seat belt. If the state roads are the roads of the second row, the regional roads, and I mentioned that for a while, it must be on both sides 10 meters, and for the municipal roads of 5 meters. It's a good thing it's supposed to be, but I think it's inconclusive in existing roads, because by the road house, there are fences, economic buildings, etc. And it's hard for us to do that on existing roads, to secure five or ten meters of protection zone on both sides. There's usually a road like this on one side that's steep, so there's nothing to provide. It is not a bad thing that stands for new ways, because if a reconstruction of existing roads is done, wherever possible, this is provided in Article 29. I wanted to say so much about this law, but I'm going back to what I already said. It is very important to ensure that roads are maintained. I'm telling you, there's a member here who's talking about damage. If you damage your vehicle on a road, because August was invalid, you have no chance of charging for damages in today's conditions. Therefore, it is very important that those who are involved in the maintenance of roads, entrepreneurs and public enterprises actually strictly maintain roads, not allowing some roads to fail so much, and then say, we have no money. And if you'd kept it regular, there'd be money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20765	The People's Messenger Branka Bosnjak has the word, and let the Messenger of the People be prepared, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20766	Dear Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we have before us a law on public roads that is definitely a system law, because it defines the strategy for the installation and development of the road network, how to finance the construction and maintenance of the road network, how to manage public roads, rules on public roads, increase public roads control, which is the most important and increase safety on these roads. It also introduces a public enterprise to develop the road network more efficiently and ultimately prescribes criminal provisions without which any law would not be effective. I will start with how this law provides for funding for the development of the road network and the road development strategy. Of course, he has several sources of funding, and I will say the most important ones, this is a public road management fee, 10% of the oil excise, then international and domestic loans, significant budget funds, and I will remind you that only this year's budget provides for three times more funding for the development of the travel network than it was in the previous budget. Then, following the adoption of this law, increased interest of foreign and domestic investors is expected, and the collection of funds from road-by-road leases, funds from road-side advertising and, of course, commercial roads, i.e. the commercial content of roads should also be one of the sources of funding for further development of the road network. What's important is that we actually bring all these sources of funding to one level of strategy and that we know what resources we're planning, what resources we're having for the next year and that we're building a road development and construction programme based on it. The conditions for construction and reconstruction of public roads prescribe the scope of the project documentation and, of course, as an engineer, I think it is something that I would particularly draw attention to, because it is extremely important that every time, every connection, and even the rural road is made in accordance with the project documentation and that it is not a matter of volunteering and a matter of deciding someone to go out on public traffic alone with their connection. Also, the law prescribes how facilities should look along public roads, what all connections should look like, not only those made by individuals and individuals but also all connections on public roads and also very important, regulations should define all road signals, whether they are commercial or traffic signalling. When we talk about what this law brings new, it is that, with the categorization of roads, it also prescribes standards and standards to check the quality of making these roads. We have witnessed numerous cases when the same stock, the same time, worked several times, unfortunately for political purposes and opened several times. We are witnessing that asphalt on very important traffic stations, sometimes highways and first-class trafficways, is damaged in just a year. That's why it's important that this law prescribes quality control of roads. Of course you have to know what category of road is. It's clear what kind of traffic is going down the road. It is known that, for example, highways, first row roads must also ensure the quality of the road, which provides loadability, for example 10.5 tonnes, and similar regulations, so that it could not be said that the appropriate path is failing due to inadequate use and inadequate traffic. It also provides for the complete appearance of all roads towards the road category. For example, the law clearly states that the highway must have two physically separate August tapes, that each of these August tapes must have two completely separate traffic stations and that the highway – a road that must provide quality and safe traffic, at a speed of 130 kilometers per hour. It doesn't matter if on certain shares that speed will be limited for this and that reason, but in directions, in places where this ride is safe, the quality of the road must be that way to allow such speed. For example, the first row's path is said to have a minimum width of 3.5 meters. Also, the law says that the way of the front row must ensure a safe 100km-an-hour drive and in exceptional cases where, for these or those reasons, there is some change, a less speed limit, of course, that is possible, but in its standard shares, it must provide adequate quality and safety. It is also said that the intersections of the roads of any order must be top-of-the-line safe. It is known by which parameters the intersection is projected and, of course, this law definitely defines everything. I'll say a few more details, let's say, the first row of seas in their directions that tend to provide one slow lane for vehicles that can't move at the right speed, to ensure that the vehicle is bypassed faster. Simply put, this law has laid down rules for the design of cars of the proper order. As many spatial plans as we define and plot the paths, whether the path will cross with another way along the overpass or underpass, it is less important at the moment, but it is important that each of these roads provides adequate security for traffic participants. Also, this law defines what all one project contains. The project of public roads contains not only documentation related to the August tape. He prescribes, among other things, what objects should look like along the way. It also defines the minimum frequency of petrol stations, service facilities, etc. Also, this law defined the obligations of various participants in the implementation of the road network construction programme. It strictly defines investors' obligations. The investor is obliged to the maximum public in his work. At the time of obtaining an appropriate permit for construction, it must notify the local authorities in good time, potential traffic participants that work will be carried out on a particular section. It is mandatory that its execution is effective both on time and within the foreseen period of time those restrictions that rule on that share actually last as long as they last. Also, an investor must take care of the people, the machines, who participate and who are present on the road at the time of the work. It is also required to carry out maximum coordination with other participants in the construction of infrastructure on the same share where the road share is built. Spacious urban plans, as I said at the beginning, except that they make a strategy of directions and categorization of roads, they define some of the closer parameters of quality and looks like a traffic station, define the width of the August lane for a specific category of road, define the places of intersections, underpasses and overpasses, define the places of parking, define the frequency of the resort, the places of the necessary gas stations and services. In order for this law to be effective, it was, of course, necessary to provide for adequate criminal provisions. The fact is that the party G17 plus such a law will surely support, in particular because the efficiency of implementation and compliance with standards is provided with rather rigorous penalties. I'll tell you about what diapazone these fines are moving in – for legal persons, fines are set at between 100,000 and three million dinars. I shall specify only some of the reasons why a legal person should be punished – if he does not carry out the work under the law, means without the appropriate planning documentation prescribed, unless he provides appropriate safeguards during the work, unless there is an approved planning documentation, and he shall not apply for the appropriate travel authorisation in due time, unless he provides smooth traffic. You know that, in certain cases, work only takes place on a part of the road, on only one part of the width of August, or on one section, works are done. So, the investor is obliged to provide smooth traffic by means of an appropriate bypass, or more importantly, an appropriate signalling to meet the works. Of course, when performing the work, every investor must have proper supervision, meaning professional, regulated supervision, which we have not had so far in a large number of regulations. Also, if objects that are helpful in carrying out works are set up, they must be properly secured and not allowed to interfere with traffic. Of course it's mandatory to set up appropriate fences, protection, but so they don't interfere with traffic. It will also punish economic operators that are close to jeopardizing traffic, endangering some other objects that are not related to the performance of works, fences, trees, leaving a shot or a waste, so that safety is compromised. A legal person, an entity that builds connections on the road without the consent of a public undertaking, will also be punished. Also, if it brings mud or eventually releases cattle into parts of the public road or into direct proximity, so that it is insecure to carry out traffic. The law provides penalties for natural persons: in case it builds a facility and sets up ads without the consent of the relevant public enterprise, it sets up installations, plumbing, sewerage, telecommunications network without the consent of the relevant public enterprise, leaving a shot, waste, burning grass with the traffic. You know how dangerous uncontrollable it can be just the burning of the grass of someone's property, but that it's a smoke that threatens the visibility of the road. It will also punish a natural person if he raises a fence and thereby reduces the visibility of the road, builds connections on a public road without permission, leaves construction material by the road. We are witnessing that in the wider centre of Belgrade, along with public traffic, a large number of unconscious citizens, leaving the builder a shot and expecting someone to do the work for them to deal with. Also, if a natural person puts signs on the road without proper permission. We are witnessing political violence in advertising on roads and signalling. We are witnessing how many traffic signals are lost without our message because the unconscious person leaves his political or commercial propaganda message. A natural person will also be punished if he spills oil or throws some other material on the road. I can't say for sure, but we all know that in neighbouring Romania there are roadblocks where oil is spilled and traffic accidents are often caused and, of course, close by, some of the citizens who take your car parts are found out of nowhere. Also, I don't want to say for sure, but we know that a large number of us witness that a similar situation is happening on one of the parts of the road in Montenegro, towards the sea, when you get a flat tire, look at the wonders – 500 meters in front of the volcanoes and it's no secret that in each of those tires you find yourself looking for a nail. The G17 plus party invites all MPs to support this law. We aim primarily at the systemic development of road infrastructure, harmonisation with legislation, international standards, because we expect new investors. When I say – new investors, I do not mean foreign investors, and our domestic investors will invest only if legislation guarantees the quality of protection of their investment. Also, our goal is to ensure a secure and secure public network of roads. It is also very important to say that the construction of new roads represents new jobs, a new development cycle, new tourists, transport services and everything that goes with new investments. Of course it is a momentum for Serbia's further general economic development. That's why I invite you, on behalf of the G17 Plus Party, to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20767	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Branko Bosnjak. The word of the people is the Messenger of the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, and let the messenger of the people be prepared for the word, Zlatan Jovanovic. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20768	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have an incomplete, imprecise, I would say incomplete legal proposal. It all seems to me that these two gentlemen, co-workers of Minister Ilic, participated in the work and development of this bill. One read the Croatian law, the other read the Slovenian law, and then without agreement, they made a very bad combination. It really is. Parts of the Croatian law and parts of the Slovenian law are embedded in this proposal, but without any synchronisation. You'd be better and smarter, because otherwise you're just copying, if you'd copied one or the other, than you'd done a papaziania and, as I said, a completely unfinished legal text. When I read this bill of law, it was an interesting explanation to me, and that part – the reasons for the law. I'll talk about it a little bit. Among other things, the reasons for law-making are said: "International financial organisations, which have granted loans since 2000, as well as other aid for the development of public roads in the Republic of Serbia, have consistently indicated the need to adopt a new law that will ensure the independence of a public road operator, narrow down control of this entity and its flexible mobile organisation, with the intention of being an equal partner in the negotiation and conclusion of a loan agreement and other types of assistance". Therefore, the main reason for the adoption of this law and the proposal for this law is the intervention of international financial organisations. The government obviously misread that. I'll explain that to you when we talk about Articles 3 and 8. The bill, as well as the road infrastructure, will destroy the same way that the railway was destroyed, and we talked about it extensively and in detail when it came to the Law on Railways. We told you that you can't get your physical faces into the railroad the way you did and the problems already exist, and there's still going to be. However, these individuals, i.e. private individuals, were doing well with Minister Ilic, because we had, you remember, a proposal that the state give guarantees for loans that natural persons take to edit parts of the railway line. Furthermore, here it says: "There are also a number of requests from the European Community to adapt positive legislation to European Union legislation in the Republic of Serbia." This is what we keep telling you that we are far from this European Union and that we should not destroy the laws that are adapted to the European Union as possible by our regulations which, if necessary, can possibly change. Then you tried, that the government agreed with the MPs and said that, in addition to these reasons, the reasons for the adoption of this law were set in three groups: legal, financial and technical-technology. The group, for legal reasons, says "the demands for the Republic of Serbia to start harmonising" are dominant, etc. So, the government has already cited this as one of the reasons - the demands of international financial organisations and the European Union. Then it's too high to convince us that the government is smart, responsible and caring and has legal reasons to pass this law. In this part of financial reasons, it is said: "for a large number of activities of general interest, public enterprises have been educated. The management operations of the Master's and Regional Roads were carried out by the state authority, which is contrary to legal intensities. This has in practice caused a number of insurmountable financial and other problems, as well as raised further relations with foreign finances and caused a disturbance in ensuring a reliable and stable source of funding. As countries in the environment single out yearly adequate percentages for the development of public roads, in Serbia, the process goes counter-flows, i.e., separation, starting in 2000, is reduced each year." If there was a minister here, I'd ask him to explain this ridiculous long sentence to us and tell us why the separations since 2000 are shrinking, who's responsible for it. Who is responsible for Serbia's situation from 2000 to today? Of course, it is known to be three governments: the government of Zoran Djindjic, the government of Zoran Zivkovic and the government of Vojislav Kostunica. It is amazing that the minister and the government, in the light of this proposal, are complaining about themselves. The minister himself said here, on remarks about the strategy in this area, that today a strategy adopted in 1998, at a time when the minister of traffic was Dragan Todorovic, and Dragan Todorovic is chairman of the SRS Executive Board. Of course, we know that on purpose and consciously we have potentiated that part of the discussion to get the minister to say it. That is, therefore, true and therefore I don't see why, if it works from 1998 to today, it is now necessary to hire a Swedish firm and to give it how much money to make a new strategy, if we have a strategy that is valid until 2010 and that was applicable and applied, and so far there have been no objections to it, so it is something that is completely unnecessary. The technical and technological reasons for law-making are said: "The law on planning and construction, (it was brought in, just to remind you in 2003), certain issues relating to construction and reconstruction, has been resolved in a new way, and these relations are not in line with the applicable Roads Act, which also calls for access to urgent harmonisation". Now one logical question for this and that previous government. If since 2003, I'm not sure at what time the law was passed, it seems to me that it was summer, so it was already two years ago when it was passed, when it was adopted, when we talked about the Law on Planning and Construction, we of the SRS were speaking to the then assembly majority, gentlemen, you're passing inapplicable law. Here's one of the confessions, and special recognitions that it's an inapplicable law refer to legalization of buildings built without a building permit. This government admits to us that we had an inapplicable law. I'm asking the minister, directly through his associates, how it's been going for two years. This government has been active for over a year and a half, as was then done in this area if we didn't have a harmonised normative. From a moment on, it is said in a statement, referring to the dramatic changes that occurred in early 2001, by abolishing the regulation, etc., says large funding problems arise from that point on, and the financing policy that has been in place since the beginning of 2001 has been constantly channelling funds for the roads to Serbia's budget. So you're complaining about yourself again, and you've got the knife and the cake. I don't see why and who you complain about what you regulate yourself. It's one of the problems in the functioning of this government, and we'll talk about it some other time. Furthermore, such funding has had negative consequences on the overall state of construction of public reconstruction and public roads, and has been particularly reflected in the size and quality of maintenance. This size and quality of maintenance is really interesting both at the level of the city of Belgrade and at the level of the Republic of Serbia. Wherever we go, what we do. Asphalt is removed and a new one is put on. It's an unprecedented money laundering, and it happens through such asphaltation. Everyone in Serbia knows that. It is a public secret that the most money can be washed and stolen and taken from Serbian citizens through the stripping and re-imposing of asphalt. This is done on all roads in Serbia and where there are needs and where there is no need. It is done throughout the city of Belgrade and other cities in Serbia. Asphalt is removed, a new one is put on, and after three months, a piece is dug and some pipes are put on and then buried again, and then they forget to put the cables on and then they have to dig up again and take off the asphalt. It's all done completely consciously. They're not the stupid ones who do these jobs, so they forget when they take off the asphalt and they dig to put in water pipes and look at sewers and consult PTT and EPS whether they should put in underground cables, etc. They know it well, but they are deliberately not doing so but doing so as not to work anywhere in the world except in the country of Serbia. See now what happens to building Nemina Street in Belgrade. It's amazing to close down the busiest street in town instead of making one tape, or one piece, and then the other part. No, I don't. It's all closed, chaos is in Belgrade. In his first announcement, Bojan Stanojevic, the city manager, said it would last 90 days. Last night he says 124 days, imagine precision. It explains how it's done everywhere in the world, and they're going to try Belgrade now, so if it turns out to be good, then it's going to be done in the future. Then the high-minded answer by Bojan Stanojevic to the question of why it was not done at a time when the lower traffic frequency was in July and August, he says – because in two months this job cannot be completed, so why should we start, if we have to work another month past that period when the lower traffic frequency is lower. Imagine that nebulose and bojan Stanojevic's stupidity, so if citizens have to torture themselves, then it's better to last one month than four months now, as Bojan Stanojevic predicts. Of course, that's where we'll see what we're used to from Bojan Stanojevic and Nenad Bogdanovic. As soon as Nemanja's street is buried one day one month, and that'll be next year, then in a month or two, they'll be taking off the asphalt again, putting on some new sidewalks, new pipes. That's how they worked with this section from the Parliament to the Prince of Michael, downtown. In the light of this law, another interesting thing is said: "In the technology of performing certain jobs such as asphalting, scraping asphalts, installing stable bases, building protective, repulsory and other fences, a great progress has been made that could not be accepted in Serbia for advanced reasons." First, it is completely inappropriate to cite any of these reasons for what the Government says in an explanation. The point is exactly what I said, which is to steal money from citizens of Serbia, that it is not a problem in the regulations. Every builder, every low-building engineer knows what to do and how to pave the way, the street. We don't need the EU or their brains here. Our engineers are smart enough to know that. And people who work to do it know that. The problem is that in every square inch of the asphalt, someone has to be installed, someone has to be inhaled. It is Bojan Stanojevic and Nenad Bogdanovic in Belgrade, and at the level of the Republic of Serbia it is Velimir Ilic and his suite. It's amazing what you're trying to do, the government is trying to hide behind something that everyone in Serbia knows is true. Gentlemen of the Veli Capital Ministry, tell him, and you're doing this job, to take a little care of traffic inspectors, their responsibilities and real impact on the ground, the number of these people on the ground. When they do their job, there'll be fewer of these problems. The amendment to Article 44 is related. The bill's proposal, and article 44 says it's forbidden on a public road, so it's a list of what's forbidden, of course, everything that's listed here and should be banned. The SRS MP, counterpart Krajinovic, submitted the amendment and wrote to delete this member. He will speak in detail when it is debated in detail. This amendment is not written because we do not think that temporary or permanent takeover of the road should be prohibited, public road works that are not related to construction and that I do not read further, etc. No, this amendment is written to, explaining it, draw attention to the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia that they cannot function with, say, two inspectors on the territory of Vojvodina, so that they are supermen, that they are not what, they could not run all the roads, let alone do something concrete. That's what the Ministry should take care of, among other things. So, to increase the number of these people, to give them certain powers and to make sure that these people do their job fairly, that no one can pay them in the field and pay them as much as they deserve. You've overcrowded your ministry so many people, you've hired them so much that it's amazing. You put them all in cabinets, in offices, in Velja Ilic's environment, instead, and we wouldn't mind, if you had received a large number of inspectors and sent them to the field and that Serbian citizens benefit from so many employees in the capital ministry. In members of somewhere from 90, 91, 99, etc., and here we went with the same kind of amendment, also to distract the Ministry that this part of the matter, which refers to punishment, must mainly be regulated by the Traffic Safety Act on the Roads. You have not only here, but in the good part of this law, mixed the powers that need to be regulated by one law and another. That's why, among other things, this law isn't as good as you've conjecture it. In Article 3, you say that public roads and untegorized roads make up a network of roads. "The roads of Article 1, as good in general use, are state-owned and can receive rights of use, rights of service and other rights laid down by law." The amendment amended this article, deleted Article 2 because of what is written in Article 8 where Article 2 states: "The management of state roads can also be carried out by a company, i.e. another legal person or entrepreneur, under conditions and in a manner established by law governing the performance of the general interest". We in the SRS can't accept it, we couldn't accept it when it came to the railroad. I repeat, the rail problems are already evident. The question is how much does it have to do with Sarancic and suspicious procurement, but it is likely that the authorities will take the team seriously, that not only will the newspaper deal with such problems and crimes in the government and around the Serbian government. In Article 18, you say - the amount of compensation referred to in Article 17(1) and (13) and Article 17 is to pay compensation for the use of the public road and point 1) is the annual fee for motor vehicles, tractors and trailers, and point 13) is the fee for the use of the national road for vehicles registered abroad. Imagine, these two categories you predicted. The decision on the level of compensation referred to in Article 3(3) shall be made with the consent of the Government, and for the municipal road, i.e. the street with the agreement of the Assembly of the City. What does this mean? When this is read and someone who has not read the whole law will say – well, those of the ministry started to think about municipalities and local self-government and we will also benefit from the application of this law. It's not like that. It's about the fact that the law provides for municipalities to charge compensation for something that doesn't exist at all. So another Serbian citizen fraud, another reason more is why the SRS will not vote in favour of the law. We don't think this law with this title should exist. It should, but the law that under this title contains everything I've talked about, and what my colleagues have spoken about and will yet speak, is unacceptable for us from the SRS. It would really be best if what is in article 103 were true, which is that the law enters into force on 1 April 2005, to make it a first-april joke. It's really unserious. This can be interpreted as a formality. You handed the law over to the Assembly on 18 February 2005 and then you said it would enter into force on 1 April 2005. The irresponsibility, indemnity, underestimation and insult of the dignity of the National Assembly has been expressed through this article, that none of you remembered that before this law came into the assembly procedure that the Government submitted an amendment, the law would not and could not enter into force on 1 April 2005, but rather some date that you are likely to determine. So once again, we're going to talk in detail and in detail. The SRS will not vote in favour of this law and I recommend it to the other MPs, as I expect, and it is normal and that MPs should work in the field, to see their fellow citizens on the ground. They will find this fraud difficult to explain to local administrations in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20769	The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. I was just about to say hello to Natasa Micic and her return to parliament, and she leaves in the meantime. To know she came, sat in the back row, came back. One wing of the Democratic Party has returned. I noticed and therefore I must inform my colleagues that Natasa Micic has returned to parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20770	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing the Law on Public Paths, a whole new text of legislation that is extremely important to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and of course to the Republic of Serbia and its relations with neighbouring countries, as well as to the complete international community. In my presentation, I would like first to refer to the existing situation that we have today and which our citizens mostly know. The situation with our roads today is extremely difficult and this condition is not new, it's something that has been chronicly going on for many years. All citizens who travel a little more in Serbia know how bad our paths are, how difficult it is to cross any road in general. Of course, the authorities try to do something every year, and this year something is objectively done on those roads. However, what is personally unclear to me, and possibly most citizens, is, on the basis of which the criteria are made for the choice of roads, i.e. routes that are being reconstructed during one year, or maintained. In addition to regular maintenance or emergency maintenance, such as the patching of impact holes on certain roads, some roads are reconstructed to a greater extent, largely rehabilitated, but there are few unclear criteria for the choice of these roads, who make the choice and how. Here I want to remind myself and to call the authorities, primarily the Republic Road Directorate, there are probably many requirements, but the fact is that there is no requirement in the Republic Directorate, for the completion of the construction of a road that is significant for two municipalities – for the Municipality of Bajina Basta and the municipality of Kosjerić. It's a road that connects these two municipalities. It's a road across the Varda whose construction began more than 10 years ago. During that period about 10 years ago, which was extremely difficult, it was almost completed, but it remained about five kilometers unfalsified, though it was then done all the way to asphalt, without the means to complete it. That road stands for more than 10 years unfinished, and I must remind you that it is extremely important for two municipalities with over 50,000 residents and to ask the Republic Directorate, if there are conditions and possibilities, to put it in the plan for next year. Just to remind me that this is the shortest route from Koseric to Republika Srpska and that in Koseric we have a cement factory that probably needs to export its products to Republika Srpska and that it is the shortest link. Those trucks have to go through the Uzics, cross Valjev and Loznica. As far as this proposal is concerned, it is a rather ambitious project that has tried to cover everything that is related to the roads in Serbia. However, there are some things that at least to me or us in the SRS parliamentary group are not clear enough and are not sufficiently explained in the legal text itself. What falls into the eyes at first sight, reading the bill's proposal, the primary reasoning of the law, is that this is another legal project that has been extorted by the European Union. It is clearly stated in the explanation that the European Union, or those who give money or want to give money, is conditional upon the granting of loans which we will repay by adopting such a legal project. That's not what the Proposer is hiding, that's all in a clear and loud way. The reason for the adoption of the emergency procedure is that "the credit agreements contain a clause under which the withdrawal of the credit tranche is conditioned by the change in the status of the Republic Road Directorate, or by its organisation as a public enterprise". It also states: "In addition to this, the signing of a contract on new loans to finance the construction of a road network in the Republic of Serbia is conditioned by the assembly procedure of a new law that will regulate the management, maintenance and use of public roads in the Republic of Serbia, as soon as possible and at the latest in early March 2005," etc. So this is a directive of the European Union, so-called international communities and this is another one in a series of laws that we are making under the directives of that international community. Also, what stands here in reason is that one of the demands of the international community and the equalisation of compensation, so-called. Tolls for domestic and foreign vehicles. So that'll happen soon on our roads, we'll have the same tolls for both domestic and foreign vehicles. What is also evident here and what the minister pointed out in his exhibitions is a difficult material situation in Serbia, when it comes to roads, reconstruction, construction and maintenance of roads, or financial problems, as the minister said since 2001, there are also problems here. Why are there problems since 2001? A regulation repealing certain procedures has resulted in the price of fuel. Just to remind, in 2001, DOS came into power and then the DOS government abolished the regulation that financed the construction and maintenance of roads from the fuel price. Here, now you realize how bad and unnecessary it was, and all with the desire to complete the funding and all the funds collected in Serbia are placed under one man's control. The minister himself has cited several examples, starting with our environment, neighbouring countries to England, where an extremely high percentage is drawn from the retail fuel price for these purposes. That's not the case with us. I'm surprised that even in this proposal, it doesn't say that the percentage of retail prices is set out, but that's where the tax exemption is foreseen. I think it would be wiser to go to retail prices, so that some larger or more significant funds can be provided. I don't know if the amendment has changed that. I agree, but that's what the proposal says. What is also not clear here, but in Article 2, when certain terms and terms used in the law are explained, which is the concept of a public road, it says here that it is a path that meets the prescribed criteria for categorization by the competent authority. The authorities that categorize roads are the Government of the Republic of Serbia and local self-government. However, criteria for categorisation do not exist anywhere in the law. The proposal says that the government will prescribe criteria, so after the government, on the basis of these criteria, it will categorise these state roads and local self-government for other public roads. However, it remains a little unclear what if some time, which is not a state-run, local self-government, which may not be organised in quality, we have problems in many local environments, elections are repeated, local administration is not working, if some roads are not categorized there, and then it is raising problems in the further application of this law. I'm just going to say a few words about this public enterprise that's envisioned by this law, about managing the state roads. I'm going to say a few words about the financing of these jobs, the competence of a public enterprise, or the financing, construction and maintenance of roads. It's good to set up a public company that will manage the state roads, because it's an activity of general interest, as it stands here. However, what is provided for in Article 8(2) is not good, which is that management of state roads can be entrusted to an entrepreneur. It's not good and we can't accept it. After this Article 8, the term "public enterprise" is not used when it comes to governance, but rather the term "controller" is used, thinking that, in addition to public enterprises, management can be done by someone else. However, I must tell you that all of this is in collegiate with Article 21 where it's said which funds are made from the charge for using roads etc. They transfer to whom, i.e. who is the beneficiary of the funds, and Article 21 says: "The funds of the fee paid from Article 17(3) to 13 of this Act are the income of a public undertaking." Now it's not about the manager, it's about the public firm. So all these assets go to a public firm. What if a state road sets foot on the management of an entrepreneur or another legal person? It is logical that whoever manages and uses the funds, but in Article 21, you have directed those funds directly to a public enterprise, regardless of who is the manager over a certain part of the state road, although we disagree that someone other than the public enterprise should be the manager of the state or part of the state road. When it comes to funding, it is taxed on how the funds are supplied, so it is said: 1) from the public road fee; 2) compensation for maintaining the state road of 10% of excise duty. From what I understand, gentlemen of the ministry, the amendment intervened to make it a retail price, not a excise, which is more favourable. Article 17 draws closer to determining which fees are prescribed for the use of public roads. I'm just going to comment on some of them for a little while. It is said: "For the use of the public road, compensation is paid, and that is: 1) annual compensation for motor vehicles, tractors and trailers". This annual fee comes from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is the income of local self-government, the municipality's revenues. It will likely be paid with registration of motor vehicles and will be the income of local self-government. "2) Annual compensation for motor-powered vehicles not covered by point 1) of this Article". This is declassified. What's that amount of other vehicles? It's about symbolic means, so there's not too much dusting in the eyes of local self-government, it's going to have some resources on this basis. Then, "3rd emergency transport fee." It is not clear which mechanism will charge the compensation and what an emergency transport is, when compensation and coma can be charged. Is that a student field trip? How can this fee be charged in the first place? Further "4) compensation for the installation of advertising boards, advertising boards, etc." It is not disputed to introduce that kind of compensation. However, it is controversial, if you pass our paths, how many of these boards and advertising boards are around the roads, which are abandoned, which are in extremely poor condition, leaving an ugly picture of those passing through those roads. It should also be prescribed who will take care of it if this fee is charged, that these panorams, or tables, are maintained in some least aesthetically acceptable state, do not rose the appearance of our roads and the complete state. Then, 6) "excessive use of public roads." Who will determine what is excessive use, how, when? It should have been said here directly whether it was a burden or whether it was a frequency. "Too far," the term itself can be interpreted in different ways. Then, "a fee for renting parts of the land belt of the public road." Please, can this belt be rented at all? Here is renting parts of the land belt, and the second is compensation for joining public roads. So by renting a land belt that can be only a meter since August and that's very vague, or I don't think it's smart enough to do that. Then, "accompaniment for joining the approach road on a public road". What if local self-government doesn't categorize the roads, so those who are in her jurisdiction, and some time some village in her territory doesn't declare public roads, who's going to pay compensation for joining that three, five, or 15 houses on some public road, whether every house, every resident, will pay a fee for it. There are some things and some mechanisms that are not here fully elaborated and clarified, whose jurisdiction, which are deadlines, until the municipalities have to categorize these roads on their territory, or out of their jurisdiction. Be careful further: "accompaniment for joining the approach road on a public road, compensation for building facilities that are possible to access from a public road, then an annual fee for using objects that allow access from a public road". I think this is a little too much for someone to pay a public road connection fee, to build a facility, and to pay a fee every year because they have an object that they can get out of on a public road. I think it's a little too much and you're going to cause a lot of dissatisfaction with the citizens of Serbia. Furthermore, in Article 19, and I will end it, it is said that the funds are being raised and that they are going through the Treasury and that the ministry is transferring funds to the Public Enterprise. Is it prescribed, and I don't think it's this law, I haven't seen any criminal provisions, what if the ministry doesn't transfer funds, any funds intended for the Public Enterprise or if it doesn't transfer those funds in a timely manner, since it's imagined that these funds are being transferred in a succession manner as they arrive at the expense of the ministry. Is there any penalty for the ministry, if it does not respect those decisions, or if it does not comply with the law, in the sense that all funds are transferred and transferred in a succession manner, as soon as they arrive at the expense of the ministry. I'm gonna end up with this, and I've taken up too much of your time, and for all of these reasons, the SRS won't vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20771	The People's Messenger Branislav Rankic has the word, and let the MP Tomislav Penezic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20772	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the basic reason why this law on public roads was proposed is that the request of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development was that this must be on the agenda so that certain tranches of credits that they approve of maintenance and road construction could be withdrawn. Of course we know that, among other things, loans must be taken to build new and maintain existing roads, i.e. travel infrastructure in the Republic of Serbia. In this regard, it is only unclear for us that when taking such loans and later spending them, it is very low transparency, so we suspect that most of these loans are not intended to be spent, and from time to time there are laws in front of MPs that the Republic of Serbia should guarantee the recovery of credit funds for the development of the purposes used. In this way, in the last few years, we have enormously owed land in general, and you see for yourself, even as far as infrastructure is concerned, that there is no shift, because you can't see what objects are made for such large duties. First of all, unintended use of money goes to the fact that a huge number of people, I think of party listeners, in increasing the state administration, should provide salaries and this law would not be necessary, if it weren't for the withdrawal of new tranches and loans, and it is here and said that the minister's obligation was, it was notified, that this year at the latest by March of the month, this law would be on the agenda, but here, even though we skipped it for more than half a year, it would not be taken for harm. Of course, they'll pat him on the shoulder, probably. I have a few grudges about this law. For example, with this Article 11, it is prescribed that the minister is in charge of traffic operations, in the text below, the minister prescribes, among other things, the way in which public roads are marked. I think the government should have been determined because it is closely done with the MUP and the minister responsible for traffic operations, given that there are several other resolutions in the ministry, I do not believe that without the MUP it can do so in a valid manner and in line with the markings that are present in EU countries in our environment. In some other places, you will see that the government is in charge of prescribing certain decisions. Then, see Article 17, where it is said that public road charges are paid for use, and I want to draw your attention to point 2), where it is said that the annual fee for vehicles on a motor vehicle not covered by point 1) of this article, and then I will tell you why I am reading this, because you will see who provides, who collects it. For the use of the public road, compensation shall be paid: 1) annual compensation for motor vehicles, tractors and trailers; 2) annual compensation for motor vehicles not covered by point (1) of this Article. The fact that it is not covered by point 1) of this Article should be prescribed by the competent authority of the municipal administration as to what compensation it will be, and I do not understand which motor vehicles are not covered by this or perhaps some of the construction machinery which is transported again in the largest number of certain vehicles that have trailers which can transport such vehicles, therefore, which are other vehicles which are not motor vehicles, tractors and trailers. I don't get it, and I think this should have been separated. You don't think the authorities, the competent authority of the municipality, should be able to determine how much they charge to the combineds. They don't use public roads, and if they use them, they use them in very small distances to travel from field to field. So there's nothing left. You should have arranged that a little bit. Here's article 24 where you prescribed who doesn't have to pay the toll. It says: "The fee from Article 17(5) of this Act is not paid for motor vehicles", which refers to the payment of toll, on the highways, "police, Serbia-Montenegro armies, ambulances, vehicles escorted by the MUP, fire units, voluntary fire departments and fire departments etc., and with point 5) ends. You had to come here because of that agreement, signed by the foreign minister with the NATO Pact to put under point 6) that NATO troops will not pay tolls in the Republic of Serbia, because it is an agreement signed by Vuk Draskovic with the NATO secretary, which is foreseen. You had to have that in mind. What happened to the plans for 2004, which I mentioned at the beginning, that this law was the basic reason why it was in front of us, or the withdrawal of new loans. It says here that in 2004, some 32 billion, 240 million and 500,000 dinars were planned for investment in road infrastructure, for maintenance and construction of new roads, of which about six billion were from the Republika Srpska budget, six billion are foreign loans, 21 billion from other funds, and another eight billion were missing. It is clearly said that by 2000 this worked because it was allowed to single out 1% of the sales of oil derivatives, it was the most reliable form to finance construction, reconstruction and maintenance of roads. What has happened since 2001 is that this begins to decline, eventually to some minimum extent and to question functioning in the field of maintenance, financing and construction of new road facilities or road infrastructure facilities. It happened that, at that time, a huge number of people were admitted to the state administration, that funds from the budget were being channelled in another way, that the sale of oil products for road maintenance turned out that coalition partners, because of their broad coalition capacities, had to spend in another way, and unfortunately, in this government, ministers who had greater influence in the government, were simply available to the funds and used them, took more for their ministries. I guess there's an attempt here to get these funds and how this law tried to secure it, that's very funny to me. In these almost two years, I've never seen a law that contains this many criminal provisions. This is something to be said for the public, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia. Member of the 95th Criminal Provisions shall be prescribed at five points. Member of the 96th Criminal Provisions shall be prescribed at 12 points. Member of the 97th Criminal Provisions shall be prescribed in as many as 57 points. It's all stated what can be punished. Even if someone rips off adornments or steps on a green surface along the road, one who manages has to pay the fine. Those fines are millions of dinars. Article 98 provides for as many as 68 points. Member of the 99th Criminal Provisions shall be prescribed at 48 points. I haven't been able to add it all up, but there are over 300 points where it's going to be charged. I guess in the discussion of the Minister of Capital Investments and Finance, the finance minister said - well, I won't give for the roads more than 10% of the excise from oil derivatives, but Veljo, we have a good principle, when we need money, start a criminal policy, introduce as many criminal provisions as possible. I don't know if you dropped anything you could punish. One law contains so many criminal provisions, it's incomprehensible to me. You probably thought that in this way you could practically fill the budget and realize the resources you would invest in building roads. The establishment of the Public Enterprise is also one of the conditions why this law is ahead of us. The current Directorate for the Ways of the Republic of Serbia seems to have failed to do the job successfully, but the reason is that since 2001, practically the financial power needed to maintain and reconstruct roads has been falling, and the question is, what was it until 2001, so it could have worked. In my explanation, I assume that you have one technical mistake, because it is said that "as the country in the environment sets out yearly adequate percentages for the development of public roads, in Serbia the process goes counter-flows, i.e. the isolation, starting in 2000, decreases every year". You should have indicated that they would increase participation in money related to the maintenance and development of public roads. So, countries in the environment increase these amounts year by year, and we have a decrease. Indeed, it is not clear to anyone, or to us, because we assume what this is about, and that's what I said. But believe that such a law had no need to be before us, except for this reason that we were ordered to do so, or was ordered by the Minister for Capital Investments – a letter from the Director of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development that this must be before the MPs. It is unfortunate that the Serbian Parliament has been working exclusively on the dictatorship of some people who have never come here before us to see them.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20773	Thank you. The People's MP Tomislav Penezic has the word, and let the MP Momir Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20774	This time, I am pleased to say – the Honored Chairman, and I must refer to the previous chairman a mild criticism, he made a lapus – I am not Tomislav Panajotovic, I am Tomislav Penezic, and he has announced me as Panajotovic. It's probably a friend of his, so he went into his subconscious. Ladies and gentlemen, whenever a representative of the SRS shows up for the speaker of the ruling structure here or there is no or some don't see that we're out, and those who see us or get a hive, or possibly read the newspaper, but they get a hive because they say -- here, they're just criticizing. None of us came out here just to criticize. We're going out to point out some shortcomings quite well-intentioned. Believe me, I wrote here that it's the law to argue. So here we want to discuss the law. If we hadn't discussed it so far, we would have adopted all the laws the EU has given to adopt and have nothing more to do. But the laws would go through with huge mistakes, that is, with everything they're suggesting. We're trying to fix the laws as much as we can, but as far as I know, we're failing because you're hardly adopting anything from our remarks. It is normal throughout the world, if we use the word criticism, the opposition criticises the laws, or criticises the government's views, of course with the intention of improving what the government has proposed. The government must not do this, because it has been given the task from above, according to the ruling structure, that is, in this case from below, because we are spatially little higher than the ministry's representatives. Just spatially, I'm saying, don't think I'm underestimating you. I'm sorry that Mr. Velimir Ilic, Minister, is not present, I would have something to say to him too, he's gone. Right now, let me tell you that it's good to bring good laws, and even this law to bring and to be good. I think we're all in the mood to improve this law a little bit, to make the law good, to be adopted and respected. Some know, and perhaps they don't know, that in some part we have reached a consensus that all MPs of all the structures in the Assembly have signed an act in which they have sought and agreed that the highway goes through Užica, Varoshi, Preboj and Prepolje, whether it was a radical, DS, DSS, or G17 plus. Of course, we signed it with our best intentions, heavy hearts, but we signed it. The ruling structure made the decision it made, it was adopted and so it passed, just so you know that we are ready for co-operation, if co-operation is constructive. Furthermore, we did the same thing with the amendments, very well-meaningly, without at all, as some say - provoke, delete. Something's gotta be erased, if it's not right. Not all of them are deleters. They're wiped out 22, Albianic, I have to mention you as a mathematician, I counted 22 amendments, the SRS has a total of 103. But you have a total of 39 when we subtract it, so 17 has the governing structure. So you don't agree with this law either. I don't see anyone here discussing this law, and if he does, it's commendable. And you need a little criticism of what's wrong, if anything, at least the amendments you've made, you bring here, that the people know what you're not satisfied with. This was an introduction, and now I'd like to say something about the law. The first part of the law I wouldn't comment on, these are professional terms, I believe they've been prescribed from somewhere, that's what Mrs. Verica said, there are 50 concepts, among other things, some sort of protective tape, travel objects, construction, cross-breeding, etc. That's not what I'm talking about. I will talk about ways towards importance, Articles 5 and 6. Here we have the roads of first and second order, then the municipal roads and the streets. As for the first and second lines, there's not much I can talk about, especially the first lines. I've got a big grudge about second-class roads. By order of the European Union, you have set out to make huge investments and work in all directions, so that August often remains incomplete. It's very dangerous to drive, especially at night, because they climb asphalt, cut asphalt straight lines, leave sharp edges like razor blades. Sometimes you're in a position to choose whether to ruin a car or keep your head. Of course, I'm always willing to keep my head, and I do a lot of driving. I would ask for some stronger signalling or soft edges to do it, because you yourself, all of you driving a car, came across some road on that triangle that was cut in the road, sometimes there are more crosses, so your vehicle is going to meet, so you don't know where you're going – either to the hole or to the vehicle, or from the road. You usually stay on the road, you go to the hole. I'm sorry, I had more to talk about, but time's up. I'm just going to say one more thing, there's one conflict here, you're saying there's no necessary means to enforce the law. The coalition, in the explanation below, you say, is not providing funds from the budget, and here it is said to be partly provided from the budget, besides the basic one. That's in article 16. So look at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20775	Thank you, Mr. Penezie. I give the word to the MP Miljak Cetrovic, and if the time is right, the next speaker is MP Momir Markovic. The SRS parliamentary group has 11 minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20776	Dear People's MPs, you may wonder where this material I brought here came from. I must address the citizens of the Kingdom municipality, the citizens of Serbia and the public of Serbia. What is happening in the Kingdom is not related to this road traffic law, but it is related to Velimir Ilic, Interior Minister Jocic, Justice Minister Stojkovic and Minister for Local Self-Government Loncar. The political, legal and police terror that has been carried out in the King's last days since the municipal prosecutor's office, the Kraljevo MUP, allegedly controlled by the signatures that citizens have given for the recall initiative of the municipality's president, Radoslav Jovic, has overcome every measure. The state of Serbia is not democratic at all, those who say they, as Democrats, will take Serbia to Europe, have brought Serbia to the level of South American states, Bolivia and others. It is inappropriate what is happening in the King following that criminal record against the Christian congregation. persons submitted by Radoslav Jovic. Although the election commission of the Kraljevo municipality has repeatedly rejected his objections, according to complaints referred to by the Royal Municipal Court, the municipal court has made two rulings, which are rejected from his appeals. The first verdict was reached on 29.9.2005 and the second verdict – 16.10.2005. The Electoral Commission of the Municipality of Kraljevo, according to the entire procedure and after the fulfilment of the legal requirements, published a decision on the registration and declaration of citizens of the Municipality of Kraljevo – a proposal to recall the President of the Municipality of Kraljevo, Radoslav Jovic, for 27 November 2005. All the actions to be followed in the process of preparing the citizens' statement shall be applied analoguely to the provisions of the Law on Elections for the local authorities, the Election Commission of the Kingdom Municipality has also set all deadlines to run until the citizens' statement on 27 November. Finding out the fact that the authorised employees of the Ministry of Interior call the King by phone after they have obtained it, I don't know by whose order, all the signatures with names and last names, home numbers and citizens' signatures, it's about 13,500 signatures. I don't know by which method and by which sample the citizens were invited on Friday, Saturday and Sunday by phone to report to the MUP Royal within an hour. When the citizens received those calls, normally, there was fear for a variety of reasons, if anything happened to them, to one of their family members who weren't there, if there was any doubt that they did something, and they knew they didn't do anything. The police terror was conducted three days in the evening, even called and heard and allegedly requested statements at nine o'clock in the evening. I have an example of a young man, I won't tell him his name, from Advennaya, they signed his mother and father, they called the home number, he wasn't there, he was in Belgrade, they were ordered to give his cell phone, they called him on his cell phone and ordered him to return to the King immediately that afternoon and come to the MUP. He arrived at nine o'clock at the MuP King. He asked the MUP workers, who allegedly took statements, which is why there is, and the head of economic crime -- Grkovic Zvonko, who was determined, probably from the head of the Ministry of Interior of the Kingdom to conduct, besides other persons, said he had to make a statement about whether a criminal group from the SRS, who committed criminal acts, had been there to take the signature for the recall of the president of the municipality of Radoslav Jovic. It is unacceptable and incomprehensible for a healthy mind, given how elections are conducted, how candidacy is carried out, and how this procedure is carried out. Unfortunately, when I learned this only yesterday morning, it came to the SRS several citizens shivering, immediately I went to municipal public prosecutor Zečević and asked by what law and under which provisions which law he had ordered the MUP to carry out these actions and in this way, telephoned, to call on citizens to declare whether they had signed or not. Warning him that by this way and the procedure he took with the MUP, he violates the basic and human and civil rights of Serbian citizens to sign initiatives, petitions and the rest (I think he is a member of 48). The constitution), violating all positive human rights laws for citizens to launch some initiatives and make political statements. He told me he didn't find out how the M.O.P. was doing it and that it was a definition of the M.O.P. I told him to immediately order the MAP to terminate such a procedure. After that, I went to the MUP, and I was looking for Chief Zivkovic. The head of the MUP, Zivkovic, wasn't reportedly there, I was told at the reception department, but the deputy chief – Terzic. I've told the facts and asked by what law and how all this is done. Unfortunately, I didn't get the answer that the law was about and the rest. This morning, I had to go to the district attorney's office and transfer all this to him and ask that under the urgent 400 lists of 13.5,000 signatures, home numbers and names and last names of citizens return to the electoral commission, as it will not form a database for elections or for support provided by the citizens of the SRS for the recall of the president of the municipality of Radoslav Jovic. Radoslav Jovic did not find it appropriate to accept unanimous decisions by the electoral commission, he did not find it appropriate to accept two court rulings brought by the Royal Municipal Court. Unfortunately, with the help of Velimir Ilic, who is not here and whom I have been waiting to see and who wants from the King to extend his Latifundi mobster from Cačka. The King won't let him do that. The people of the Kings won't let him. The SRS won't let him do it. I have here an envelope for Velimir Ilic, tied to the robbery and racket over the head of the Zlatibor County. I've got more envelopes with the U.S. Attorneys. With criminals, such as him, the state of Serbia has no further. Serbia will not fall, as Radoslav Jovic said, if Kraljevo falls. Serbia will rise because radicals will come to power in the Kingdom and across Serbia. Why I called Minister Jocic, I'm sorry he didn't, which he can't be, or Minister Stojkovic, because that's how the prosecution does to him both, so Jocic does to the MUP and the head of the MUP and responsible. Given what I've been saying, I don't have much time, we've prepared, and today we'll file criminal charges against the municipal prosecutor in the Kingdom for a crime of abuse of official office, Article 242 paragraph 1. The CAP of the Republic of Serbia, v Chief SUP Kraljevo for the criminal act of extortion, Article 65(1), criminal act in the service of Article 66. The CAP of the Republic of Serbia. What is happening in the Kingdom is terror trying to prevent citizens from stating whether Radoslav Jovic remains in office as president. Apparently, he understood, as Velimir Ilic understood, who is trying through Radoslav Jovic, who is an outlaw from the SPO and in this assembly as a national MP, and now is a key MP, who is also an outlaw in SO Kraljevo, who does not recognise the election commission, neither SO Kraljevo nor the council members, allegedly because she chose such an election commission. You can't defend that. The will of the citizens of the Kings over the disastrous rule of Radoslav Jovic and the coalition that took over in January 2004, the citizens of the Kings and the entire municipality feel on their coat of arms. Robbery and kidnapping, counterlaw, and now I don't have time to cite many of the crimes I mentioned in the district attorney's office and yesterday at the MUP and this morning at the district attorney's office. They all match their shoulders. They didn't do anything, even though as the SRS's parliamentary group, we initiated it through the agenda of SO Kraljevo. Unfortunately, we have not received an adequate response from Radoslav Jovic, because he is also involved in many criminal activities, as well as many local government leaders, as well as the directors of public enterprises. Unfortunately, those who need to protect the law, the municipal public prosecutor's office, the King's court, the MUP, the district public prosecutor's office, the minister, did nothing to prevent crime in the King. I want to inform the public of Serbia and the people of the Kings that they are not afraid, the SRS is behind them all and will not scare them either Jovic, Velimir Ilic, or the head of the MUP, or the municipal prosecutor. They'll all be replaced. Those who are robbers and criminals, led by Velimir Ilic, will be found in prison and in prison. Then he'll have the opportunity to doctor with the greatest criminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20777	Time. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you are, MP Tomislav Kitanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20778	Although Mr. Rade Jovic is not here, he is best told by his brilliant and convincing victory in the local election for the president of the municipality. I'm here by the Rules of Procedure and I'm advertising Article 103. Rules of Procedure, an MP can only speak about what is on the agenda and what is not an example in this case. On the other hand, I'm asking the gentleman, if I'm not mistaken, I think his last name is Cetrovic, if he might have checked his business with the bank in 1993 at the time of hyperinflation, and if he didn't check to see that business run at the time. About Mr. Jovic, give one relevant piece of evidence, one Corps of Delicates.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20779	Thank you. I'm obliged to give an explanation. I've allowed MP Tztrovic to give a little longer introduction knowing the seriousness. I'm sorry, Mr. Cevrovic, because the time of the SRS parliamentary group has expired on this point, he couldn't finish, I suppose. Now you're reporting for replication. Here you go, Mr. Four.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20780	Before I started talking, I said I'd talk past the subject. I don't often go out for this pay phone and usually talk about the subject or about the subject. I'm reporting for a replica, and I don't know the name of this MP, he didn't seem to remember my last name. Miljko Četrovic, MP of the SRS from the Kingdom. As for Mr. Jovic, you can't talk about Mr. Jovic, and I have to put this under the terms "sir". As far as I know, as many kings know him, who was president of SO Kraljevo, when he took many local authorities and many municipalities, 1997 so-called. The Together coalition, then in the "naphtha" affair for democracy and the robbery of these oil, after the affair or the key to the affair, resigned as president of the SO. Don't talk about supporting citizens and winning brilliantly in 2003. There is also a lot more information as there is a pre-election campaign and how much money came from the robbed Belgrade that held the SPO – the Serbian defence movement, as you call it, or deception, even better, which is aimed at obtaining local elections and elections for the president of the Kingdom municipality. Wait, why is he running away from the citizens' statement, which is scheduled for 27. Why did he get scared? If he has citizens' trust, they will give him confidence and continue to function. Is there any fear of many of the criminal acts behind him and the mob around him, the urban mafia and the mob that robs through the Planning and Construction Directorate and through municipalities and public enterprises? Only one example - the municipal public company "Vovod", which was done at the level of the republican government, was divided by the parties and the SPO belonged. The loss of the company last year was 50 million, and this year there will be 80 million, unpaid claims of around 180 million. Neither did it bother the director of the public company, who is from the SPS and others who are from the SPO and who are in charge of the company, to buy the most luxurious car of 1.9 million dinars, to have enormous salaries and to hire their party colleagues or members, godfathers, relatives, swastikas and others. That's how it's done in the municipal administration, so in the directorate, so in all the municipal public enterprises. They're not citizens for no reason, the trouble has made them have to sign this, because there's no more time for the King. The king lost years since 1997, and here is the end of 2005, and through the coalition "Together", through this DOS or that so-called. The democratic opposition and now through the democratic bloc, which led Jovic to the Kingdom. Unfortunately, Serbian citizens are affected by both the city and the entire municipality. That's why citizens don't want to lose in 2006 and 2007, billions of dinars through the budget, through the planning and construction directorate, through municipal public enterprises. They're being robbed, and nothing concrete has been done. There's a lot of trouble in the city and in the whole community. That's why he has to leave and he'll leave safely.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20781	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Radojla Bukvic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20782	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 103. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, according to the Rules of Procedure, the MP is obliged to speak about what is on the agenda, but it is obvious that Mr. Cetrovic has been panicking because the investigative authorities in the Kingdom are working, and he will obviously be saved from his arrest by immunity, because there are 80 dead people on the list that are obviously falsified who died before Mr. Rade Jovic was elected president of the Kingdom Municipality. I resent Mr Kitanovic from the Serbian Democratic Movement of Reconstruction, which takes care of other districts. Just now, Mr. Cetrovic has challenged the election of the President of the District Court in Uzic and Zlatibor County, and now mentions Mr. Velje Ilic and the head of the district. Why don't you worry, Mr. Cevrovic, about your district and not about the Zlatibor County and other districts? So, don't talk casually, give a flat rate. In the King you took a list from the employment office, forged all signatures requesting the recall of the president, the mayor of the Royal Municipality.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20783	Replica, MP Miljko Cetrovic, then the replica, because the party is mentioned, Sanja Cekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20784	I was not panicked, but caught by Radoslav Jovic and Velimir Ilic, which is why they are doing everything they are doing. They were panicked because Ilic could not extend his influence on the King as he planned and allegedly be the governor of the Forest. We don't have any of that, and here you're taking the data out of what she said, I know best how the signatures were collected. Four and a half months from door to door, from apartment to apartment, in the entire city of the king, in suburban settlements. Two-thirds of the king's municipality was visited, from house to house, by village. People died of a beautiful life, of the beautiful rule of Radoslav Jovic, of the town and municipality of Kraljevo, of the local government he led, of which they died. A lot of people have died since May, when we started, until the signing of September 26th, there are data on how many people died. Don't be false, because you're not familiar with the situation. As far as the Goldibor County and the President of the District Court are concerned, I stand behind the words I put behind the pay phone. That's the material evidence I had in my hands, and that's why I stepped forward like that. I've never come forward as a man when it comes to people without material facts and evidence. I never gave judgment lightly on people until I got to know the good people, especially if I had material evidence. That's why I did it when it was a proposal for the President of the District Court at Uzic. If it bothers you and if you wanted to, and it seems that Velja's man was too, when we put it all together and put the dice together, it's clear that Velja wants Chačak, Užice, Kragujevac to connect with Verka and these small municipalities of accounts to buy for two, three, five million, through the Road Construction Directorate. It is not Serbia to buy, especially the Kraljevo municipality, as the territory's largest municipality in Serbia with 130 and a few thousand inhabitants, with 20,000 displaced from Kosovo and Metohija. He cannot buy the King's and the Kingdom's municipality for two and five million, nor for the toilet that he allegedly invested as a capital investment, when he was captain of the merry downhill when Jovic handed him the captain's hat at the end of June. Unfortunately, the fraud or attempted fraud he has done throughout Serbia, which he has promised, cannot go through in the King, and that is clear. Take as much as you want, you've got no more power. What you've been doing, Velja Ilic will have to lay down accounts for what's going on in the Road Construction Directorate, for what's going on in the Serbian Railways, and his so-called. Director Sarančić and these purchases of locomotives and trains. There will have to be bills for many things, for this chaos in the media, for this robbery and racket that takes every step of the way. We have evidence, we'll present them when the time comes, when the right people come to the D.A.'s office, the right people as judges, and he'll be sentenced to years of imprisonment, like many others next to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20785	The word is by MP Sanja Cekovic, a replica of Mr Cetrovic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20786	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has been mentioned by the SPO in this court for a long time, and I just want to ask one key question about the SPO, the exercise of power in Belgrade and Radoslav Jovic as a candidate for the president of the municipality of Kralje in 1997 and now. Let's ask what the problem is with the exercise of power in Belgrade, when during the post-election period of the SPS, therefore not only the SPS but also the DSS and the DSS, the republican government in this parliament, when I was one of the 45 MPs of the SPS, so the majority in this parliament had the SPS and the SRS. What was missing at the time was that you weren't chasing people from the SPO who you said weren't exercising power in a fair way in Belgrade. So, if you had these data, facts, findings, indictments and convictions, as far as I can see during that period, you had to initiate a court case to prove whether already the vice president of the Serbian Parliament, who was then the mayor of Belgrade and many other people seen in the SPO, had done something illegal and unlawfully made themselves rich and exploited. You missed that period, and today, in 2005, we are going back to the SPO period in Belgrade, which I think is politically inconsistencies, and that we should not be in such a long period of time to deal with untruths and burden the SPO with something that has not been proven. As for Dr Jovic, a longtime member of the SPO and the president of the municipality, who in two terms won the post by the citizens of his municipality, I will tell you only, regardless of all developments at this time in the SPO, regardless of the fact that Radoslav Jovic and eight SPO MPs left the party because of disagreements in some programme work even in March of the month, that the SPO is proud of Mr Radoslav Jovic's victory over the victory of Mr Veroljub Stevanovic, because these are the people who have carried the idea of the SPO since 1990 and showed that Serbia can move forward, that Serbia can move forward, that Serbia can move on a fast path towards Europe. Every man who's ever been to the SPO, and not as long and honest and congratulating as Radoslav Jovic, is the pride of the SPO. What is now happening in the Kingdom, which is trying to collect signatures that will challenge Mr. Jovic's validity or poor work, should be collected in a legal and legal manner, let the court give its opinion on it, let Mr. Jovic's claims be denied that there are people on these lists who are not alive. If so, the SPO at this point can only say: any man who has been a member of the SPO for the past 15 years, we are proud to remember and mention with pride. The SPO has had such personnel and will have them, that Serbia will wish in the next elections that the SPO will get an even better percentage and result, in order for Serbia to preserve Kosovo, so that Serbia, along with the SPO and democratic forces in this parliament, will take this country to Europe, to the European Union. (President: Mrs. Cekovic, 4.45 minutes) Only with a strong SPO and a SPO shot can we move forward. Thank you, and forgive the time we've been over.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20787	National MP Radojla Bukvic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20788	Mr. Cetrovic wasn't talking about the agenda point. The fact is that the King's signatures have been collected for several months, but the fact is that these signatures have been collected for the construction of sewers, the construction of streets, the replacement of wooden banners for concretes, to turn these lists into Mr. Jovic's impeachment. Why didn't you collect these lists on the certified signatures of the election commission, but with some papers, notebooks, so that these lists would be valid. Furthermore, as for the election of the District Court president, Mr. Cetrovic says he had arguments. It is interesting that of the two SRS MPs from Zlatibor County, none of them had such facts and did not bring them here, but Mr Cetrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20789	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before concluding a principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. I'm setting a break by 14.45.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20790	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after a one-hour break, we continue our work. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on State Audition of the State, you have received a bill from the MP Radojko Obradović. You received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time for discussion is five hours, I remind you that for the SRS parliamentary group it is one hour, 37 minutes, 12 seconds; DSS – one hour, three seconds, 36 seconds; DS – 44 minutes, 24 seconds; G17 plus – 37 minutes, 12 seconds; SPS – 26 minutes, 24 seconds; New Serbia and Independent MPs 9+9 – 21 minutes, 36 seconds; MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, four SPS MPs, two SDP MPs and four independent MPs – five minutes each, based on Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the authorised representative in front of the SRS parliamentary group is MP Veroljub Arsic. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the promoter, MP Radojko Obradovic, want a word? Yeah. I repeat my notice once again from the beginning of the session. Today we will be working on the Rules of Procedure until the debate is completed in principle on the 10th item of the agenda, the draft law on the State Audit Institute, and tomorrow we will be working on the 11th item of the agenda from 10.00 hours. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20791	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, finally in the assembly procedure, we have a law on the state audit institution, which is extremely important, which is necessary to raise Parliament's capacity and that many things and many of the problems we have started to solve are even faster and even better. The draft state audit law began four years ago. The previous assembly of the Assembly faced this not so small problem, it began to work, but unfortunately there was no strength, will and time at the time, and the project was not done then. Immediately after the constitution of this call, we renewed the initiative of making such an important law and the serious work began on July 5th last year. A roundtable was held in co-operation with the OSCE and the Canadian Parliamentary Centre to discuss the importance of introducing a state audit and the necessity of passing laws, and then the establishment of one such body. As a result of the round table, a book called "the role of top audit institutions in the process of parliamentary control of the executive authorities". We discussed on the Committee on Finance the need to introduce one of these bodies and concluded that the National Assembly has the capacity to do this law on its own. We thought then, it proved true, that this law must be done here, because the task of this law is to establish such an institution, which must first of all raise Parliament's capacity to establish control over the work of the executive government and control the spending of all those state funds from donations, all those funds coming from abroad. With all the problems that we in the congregation have, which the MPs know very well, and all that we are doing right here to get the capacity of the National Assembly, we have managed to complete this law and direct it to you in the form in which it is proposed. Five parliamentary parties participated in this bill, I speak in front of the working group that prepared the law. There were Zoran Andjelković, Sanja Cekovic, Aleksandar Vlahović, Istvan Takac, and of the people who helped us on the side, there are primarily Ljubisav Jolović, Milivove Cvetanović, Aleksandra Tekijaški and from the professional services of Dragica Krstic-Purešević and Mirjana Radaković. We agreed that it might be a harder and slower way to include as many domestic and foreign organisations and institutions as possible, but this is a path that guarantees a better law, a better model, which guarantees a much better check of all those instruments introduced through the law, especially taking into account that we have no experience and traditions with the state audit and that we are starting to build an institution from the very beginning. We established close cooperation, we had daily communication with the OSCE, the World Bank, the IMF, the European Commission, the Sigma, the Belgian Court of Auditors, the Slovenian Court of Auditors, the Canadian Court of Auditors and many other organisations. Of course, such a way of working required much more harmonisation and coordination, but as a result, he had a positive view of the government, with 15 suggestions, which we agreed on on on the subcommittee and the Finance Committee not to take a fundamental step into the model of this law, but help make the law even better, and I think all 15 remarks and suggestions of the Government are accepted. As for the MPs, we've received about 25 amendments and I think about 20 amendments have been adopted, and only a few amendments have not, because they simply don't change the essence. We thought that the law had already defined all these things for these amendments and that there was no need for them to be further corrected. Such a way of working may have required a few weeks more in this whole process of reconciliation, but it has led to a law that is absolutely in line with all European and world standards, and where MPs did not have a large number of objections. It has been shown that it is possible for the National Assembly to do such an important law on its own and it has proved that all of these institutions, with which we have managed to make contacts, which Parliament did not have in the previous period, accept such an approach. The task of such an institution is, as I said, to help establish a balance between the legislative and executive authorities. Parliament, such as ours, such as a large number of parliaments, has no mechanisms, has no capacity to adequately monitor everything that is happening and to be able to react in good time. One such independent body, which will be formed directly by a congregation decision, which will directly correspond to the Assembly, will also help parliament build capacity and that it can control in a much better way than the spending of all state money so far. I have to point out that often in public, not just with us, but everywhere in the world, one thing is overlooked. It's not the task of a state audit to replace any other institution. All institutions which have so far been part of public income control, public expenditure and spending state money must continue to do their job and it is not the task of this body to be any police officer. This body, first of all, should influence the need for all state money to be spent efficiently, economically and rationally, and to help us MPs, because these two bodies have to work closely and extremely well together, to jointly control everything that happens in the executive government, in public enterprises, NGOs, the National Bank of Serbia and all that comes from the Republic Assembly. This is one of the most important bodies in the fight against corruption. If you define the way money is spent, if you raise the capacity of that body to control whether a public enterprise is making rational plans, whether each of its projects is doing rationally and effectively, it applies everything in its jurisdiction. And if it is known that it is mandatory to review once a year, an additional revision with these elements that I was talking about, then it will certainly help as another additional mechanism in the fight against corruption. Surely it will help to make the government's behavior much more responsible. It will help raise the efficiency of public services to a higher level and enable good governance of state funds. This body must be independent and financially and personally, with a huge public in the work, as a responsible job is done, and there will be an accent here in the Assembly. Because parliament must assist in establishing a state audit, it must be supporting the state audit in raising and capacity, because it is not realistic to expect that the body will be able to do all those competencies that have state audits in all countries where these mechanisms were set up tens of years ago. When we defined this law, we spent a lot of time on it, because one way to choke an institution is to give it a huge job that it is unable to master and prove to be ineffective and inefficient. That's why we've opened up the possibility of growing as it grows its capacity. And keep in mind that at this point, we don't have the experts who did this job, the commercial audit business, because it has essentially different objectives than the state audit job. Of course, the people who did this job can get involved in the work of this institution. But, Slovenia, which we worked with in the construction of this law, has about 130 employees in the state audit institution and 100 auditors. It took them more than 10 years to put on the proper suit and prepare to accept all the responsibilities necessary for the job to be done. It's not realistic to expect it to be done in the first few months. Anyone who thinks it is so ugly is wrong, because the importance of the state audit shows only the fact that our country's consolidated budget is 8.5 billion euros. If we succeed in saving up the capacity of parliament, effective and good state audits, from only one or two percent, it is tens and hundreds of millions of euros, which can thus be provided for other purposes and other purposes. For the start of the institution's headquarters will be in Belgrade, but it is envisaged that, as the institutions develop, a network of offices and branches of this institution in all Serbian cities, where there is a need for this, so that this is one way to help all parts of Serbia, to help solve problems in all places where they exist. The law accurately defines the competences of this institution and accurately defines all these entities that are subject to control. The supervision of the state audit institution shall be subject to all those bodies which are direct or indirect beneficiaries of budgetary resources or all public revenue and expenditure. Therefore, all government organisations formed as non-governmental organisations in the spending segment of state money, as well as all private companies if they appear in state tenders, if they participate in the spending of state money, must be subject to the audit of one such body. It is the only body that can control the whole process comprehensively, the only authority that can from start to end determine whether certain funds are spent in an efficient way or not. Independence in the work of this body is also ensured by the body submitting a report and notifying all its findings to the National Assembly, but it independently makes its annual plans and programmes. The law defines what must be controlled. It is, above all, the budget of the Republic of Serbia. That's where we went to the biggest items in the budget. Thus, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the social security organisation, the largest units of local self-government, cities and some of the elected units of local self-government, NBS and the largest public enterprises, means precisely those institutions and bodies that control and spend the largest amount of state money. The subject of control will be public incomes and expenditures, the regularity of business, the purpose of the availability of state funds, the body that will be able to analyse all that is necessary to see if the state money is being spent properly. Often speaking at various round tables and other places, where the need for such an institution was to be explained, I cited the example that it was possible in the past to say a state road company paves all the roads around one place. Of course it can be in accordance with the law, if you adopt a program in which you will say that you will pave all the way around that place, so call a tender, make a tender commission, do everything in accordance with the law, don't spend any dinars past that. Of course it's all done by law. But is that how the state's money is spent properly? I'm sure he didn't. That's the only thing that can help Parliament and the state audit. We spent a lot of time thinking about the model that will be most efficient in Serbia for a state audit facility. It should be noted that, for example, Slovenia, which we refer to as an example because it introduced this facility ten years ago, and a while ago we had the same system that we started with, three times in 10 years, changing the model by which this institution works. The different needs of Slovenia 10 years ago, the institution developed and proved to be more efficient models than they had. We, working with them, came to a number of conclusions and saw what all the weaknesses they saw during that period and tried to use this model of the law some of those steps they went through to skip. We have proposed a collective body called a council, which will have all these necessary powers, which will collectively make decisions, unlike some models where there is a state auditor as an in-house body. We have chosen this collective body, which directly corresponds to the congregation and which together with the congregation will start to do a very difficult and rather ungrateful job. Getting commendation from a number of international institutions just means that this clue that we're obviously good at is good at. It will depend on us here in the Assembly how this institution will develop and how quickly we will be able to achieve all the things that have been visited by a number of state audits everywhere in the world. The Working Group and the Financial Committee propose this model of law. We have accepted most of the amendments, and during the debate we expect to hear all those remarks, suggestions, suggestions that can still be incorporated into the text of one of these laws so that it can be as good as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20792	Thank you, Mr. Beard. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word has been given by the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20793	Ladies and gentlemen, in the position of Article 1 225. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly states that the MP has the right to be informed of all the questions needed to perform the duties of the MP. In this regard, and in the follow-up to the completion of the morning work, I am obliged to inform the people's MPs and the public of Serbia, the citizens of the Kings, of the existence of four evidence that the SRS Municipal Committee in the Kingdom has done the job of collecting signatures for the removal of the president of the municipality, fully in accordance with the applicable regulations. On the basis of these collected signatures, the municipal electoral commission, under number 230/2005, decided on 11 October 2005, to call and declare the voter of the municipality of Kraljevo on the motion to recall the president of the municipality of Kraljevo, Dr Radoslav Jovic, since 27 November 2005, published in the "Official List" of the municipality of Kraljevo, number 14, on page 11, 14 October 2005. Based on this decision, the municipal electoral commission has set up a calendar of election actions already under way. That the MPs of the SRS do not speak unfoundedly and without arguments, we have here two rulings of the Court of Justice in the King. The first was reached on 2 October 2005 and said that the municipal court in the Kingdom on 2 October 2005 ruled: "The appeal of the President of the Municipality of Kraljevo, Dr Radoslav Jovic, declared on 30 September 2005 for the resolution of the Election Commission of the Municipality of Kraljevo, number 2005/2005. of 29 September 2005, as unfounded." Second sentence: "In the name of the people, the Municipal Court in the King is ruling P. 883/05", which was previously 832/05; the second verdict said: "The appeal of the President of the Municipality of Kraljevo, Dr Radoslav Jovic, was rejected on 14 October 2005, at the resolution of the Election Commission of the Municipality of Kraljeno No. 244/05 of 12 October 2005, as unfounded." So, ladies and gentlemen, you've heard that the fully respected procedure, that the president, whose impeachment the citizens will be pleading on November 27th, the current president of the Kingdom Municipality, used his legal right, filed complaints. Of course, he has a right to do that and no one's going to slow him down. The municipal court in the King did what he did. (President: Time.) I'm done. So maybe this isn't that important to you, or it doesn't seem to matter to you. I wanted the people of the Kings to hear this, that they didn't have to fear calling from the head of the MUP King, the man that Velija Ilic brought from Casca to the King, as if the King had not had enough personnel, but he had to bring his trustee to the King. So, citizens of the Kings, don't be afraid, you signed and agreed to call the president, vote like that on November 27th, when you declare yourself in that referendum. Do not be afraid of Velija Ilic, nor his chief. Justice is on your side. Justice is on the side of the Serbian Radical Party. Be assured that no SRS signature is contrary to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20794	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Let's get back to the agenda. Does the reporter of the board of directors want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a search for a word application, in writing, with the order of MPs, submitted by the SRS, DSS and G17 plus parliamentary groups. I give the word to the Messenger of the people, such as Istvan, and let the Messenger of the People be prepared, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20795	Ladies and gentlemen, the chairman, now that the draft law on the State Auditing Institution, which G17 plus supports, is on the agenda, I would like to point out some of the moments that we have so far and introduce Mr Obradovic, and yet to shed light on. A year ago, a roundtable was held in July last year, titled "The Role of Supreme Auditing Institutions in the Parliamentary Control Process of the Executive Authorities", with the help of the Canadian Parliamentary Centre and the engagement of the OSCE mission in Serbia, with an express desire to come forward as soon as possible to draft legislation on state audit and in Serbia. During this consultation, expert assistance was offered from Slovenia, Canada and Belgium in drawing up a draft text of future legislation in Serbia. That the state audit is an old institution confirms the fact that in Canada the first independent auditor was appointed in 1878 and to this day is actively working; not him, but the others. On this occasion, I would like to point out, with a brief description, the work of the state audit in Canada and Slovenia. In Canada, the Office of the Auditor-General, it is called, examines the activity of the government of Canada in areas such as health, culture, human environment, finance, agriculture, transport, etc. Overall, the accounting audit, carried out during 2001, covered about 70 government and its agencies' organisational units, as well as about 40 public enterprises operating in Canada and the world. In Slovenia, it first passed its law in 1994, and in 2001 and 2003, under the term "Accounting Court Act". The national auditor shall audit the beneficiaries of public funds, such as: public rights legal persons and their units, private rights legal persons and natural persons who are beneficiaries of the European Union's budget, the state budget and the budget of local self-government. As regards the basic objectives that the revision aims to achieve, according to the 2001 analysis in Slovenia, firstly, 2/3 of the cases concerned the regularity of business, the circus 12% concerned cases of compliance of the business of the audited entities with the legal regulations. On the same scale, controls were carried out in relation to the economics, i.e. the efficiency of business. State auditors in Slovenia have developed a special attitude towards the audited entities, which is an advisory activity. Most often, it is an opinion on various issues from public finances. Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia states in Article 72 that, among other things, the Republic regulates the control of the legality of the availability of legal persons, the financial audit of public expenditure and the way in which these transactions are organised. On this basis, the Committee on Finance of the Assembly last year appointed the Subcommittee from representatives of parliamentary parties to prepare the draft law on state audit. I want to point out here that this bill is the result of the joint work of the Subcommittee, whose member I was. In order to remove possible duplication of tasks, I stress that in our legal system we have the Budgetary System Act, which provides for budgetary control. Control and inspection is regulated by members 66, 67 and 68. Budgetary system law. Function of budgetary inspection and audit pursuant to Article 68 The laws are: to verify the application of the law, which represents the verification of the beneficiaries of the budget, the organisation of undertakings, i.e. legal persons; secondly, an assessment of the performance and total internal control; thirdly, the control of the application of the law in the field of material and financial operations and dedicated, legal use of funds; fourthly, the revision of the way in which the business and the process in the users of the budgets is assessed; fifthly, the provision of advice in the audit when new systems, procedures and tasks are introduced; sixthly, the establishment and co-operation with external audits. There is also a system of audit in companies, which is provided for in the Accounting and Audit Act. In Article 46, I quote: "The audit is carried out in accordance with the law, the International Standards of Audit (IAS) and the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants", secondly, by authorised auditors of audit firms; thirdly, "the competent authority of the legal person decides on the selection of an audit firm". It is important to stress that the review of financial reports could be carried out by the same audit company, no more than five years consecutively, in the medium-sized enterprise, or three years consecutively with the large company. As regards the preparation of the draft law, in the case of other countries, it is stated that such an independent institution, such as the state audit, is necessary in the reform of state institutions, is proposed by this draft law. I believe that the public debate since May of this year, with the availability of complete text since September of this year, is in electronic form, a reasonable time-limit for meeting this text of material. As regards the draft law on the state audit institution, at first, in Article 3. The bill lays down the legal position of the institution and that it is the highest state body to audit public funds in the Republic, that it is a independent and independent state body and that it corresponds to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for its work. The competence of the institution: carrying out an audit, may give advice to users of public funds, objections and opinions on future legal solutions in the field of audit, establish criteria and make recognition, nostrification of professional calls from jurisdiction, as referred to in Article 5. Revision entities referred to in Article 1. The bill is direct and indirect beneficiaries of budgets, compulsory social insurance organisations, budget funds, public enterprises, political parties, EU funds users. The organisation and composition of the institution itself is adapted to the requirements and taking into account the practice of neighbouring countries, and it is foreseen that the institution has the President, Vice-President, Council and Service. In carrying out its obligations, the institution will apply the general principles of audit and international standards. I believe that the way to end the revision and draw up the final report is quite new to the current system in this area. In Article 39. The draft law provides for the possibility for the audit entity to give its opinion on the proposed report within 15 days, and the audit entity's report shall also be considered jointly with the right to contest the correctness of the individual statements. The institution shall submit an annual report by 30 March of the current year for the previous year, as referred to in Article 45, and, where appropriate, a periodic report. I believe that the draft law on the State Audit Institution provides for the start of the activity on the revision plan, modelled by other countries which such an institution has long had. The G17 plus parliamentary group fully supports the voting day will vote for acceptance.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20796	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20797	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've heard an authorised promoter for this bill. The fact is that when the law is read a little bit, it is seen that a lot of attention is devoted to writing the law itself. Perhaps such a law would be good in one of the EU countries, but far from being good here. The bill should be much more stringent in certain provisions than it is in the bill itself, because five years ago certain structures are in power here, which are closely linked to certain groups of the financial mafia, so that the criteria for this control and revision of public enterprises and other public funds users need to be increased further. There are certain illogicalities. This is already visible in Article 6. The bill, where it is said that the institution has a Rules of Procedure which, in accordance with this law, is closer to regulating the manner and procedure by which the institution carries out its audit powers. The position of the SRS is that the Rules of Procedure can be some sublegal act that can regulate part of the work of an institution, legal or natural person, because it certainly is this audit institution. However, it is more relevant and more precise to define this statute. The Serbian Parliament has a Rules of Procedure on Labour. When you are invited to submit a legal proposal or something else, you are also looking for a constitutional basis. So, for the Serbian Parliament, the statute is, in fact, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. According to some of the criteria that exist, legal persons should especially have statutes, because they are part of a mini-state apparatus, independent, but still in the executive system. Already in Article 11, there is some desire for certain possible audit entities to be drawn out of one particular context. I don't want to list it all, I'm just going to give an example where it's a little bit different. In Article 11(1) point (4) of the Regulation, audit entities are in accordance with this law: the National Bank of Serbia, and in the part relating to the use of public funds and the business with the state budget. When someone reads this, they'd say it's fine. And let's look at the next point, the next point -- public enterprises, companies and other legal entities founded by a direct or indirect user of public funds. The question in point 5 is raised) it is not predicted that the subject matter of the audit can only be public funds. It's not understretched. It may be all the funds that a public undertaking or institution collects within its activity. Why is this not the subject of the audit for the National Bank, as it is decided here at point 4) – only on the basis of public revenues can the National Bank’s business audit be carried out. Is it someone who's entitled here that doesn't have to answer for all the incomes. In general, when it came to this, it had to come from another fact, that there are public revenues that are not characterised in the budget, because often, in order for this system to be as large as it is, in order to reduce this administration a little, and the authorities of local self-government, and often the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are giving some rights to certain public enterprises to have their own incomes that are public revenues, because it is obtained by performing public functions, but not entering the budget of that authority. Whether the Serbian Parliament, or the Republic of Serbia or the authorities of local self-government, are certainly public revenues and must be subject to one control. It is now seen here that, for example, the National Bank, which and how it has high funds that collects from its operations, which are:service and services of business banks, etc., maintenance of the payment system, traffic between banks and other legal entities, all of this is charged, commissions between others and the National Bank of Serbia. So, what? If the National Bank of Serbia wants to operate legally, it can split funds from public income from the Republic of Serbia's budget, it will be 100% in line with the law. These other funds considered to be their own income can no longer be the subject of this supreme audit institution. As far as point 11 is concerned, I am pleased that this substance, that at least one law regulates it, is said to be the subject of a revision of 'EU funds, donations and assistance of international organisations, foreign governments and NGOs'. I think it will be extremely interesting to see here, let's say that various NGOs are funded, not by the Red Cross, religious organisations, political parties, but by these political NGOs, which are sources, other governments and EU countries, etc. So let's see how many receptions of individuals represent individual attitudes of NGOs. What Natasa Kandic does, and 99% of Serbia hates and spits, must work for big money. It's not about political beliefs, moral law or anything else. Article 12 already shows a serious failure in the bill. It is said: "The institution may, in accordance with this law, carry out audits and operations with legal persons operating with audit entities under Article 11 of this Act." When someone reads it, they'd say it's fine. I would like to remind the promoter that now the legal face, Mile Dragic, was an independent craft workshop until a few years ago. The definition of a legal person does not mean which job he can do and whether he has to do business as a legal person with audit entities, i.e. users of public income. So, independent trades, independent trades, various service independent trades won't be able to be subject to review. Imagine if a man like the SZR made a hundred million-dollar deal, I'm talking in euros, with the Ministry of Defense, he didn't have a problem with his legal status. A simple independent trade shop has concluded ten-million contracts with the ministry. Several times, the SRS has pointed to irregularities by the government of the Republic of Serbia, both these and the previous ones, that it does not separate in business, control and everything else, natural persons from legal persons. The fact that someone has an SZR, STR or SUR does not mean that he is a small taxpayer or a small user of funds. Sam determines the column in which he will sign up to the Agency for Business Registers and possibly some subpartment of an account in his business bank, and that's all. In Article 17. The bill says that a member of the Council may be elected a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, who, in addition to the general conditions laid down by the law for the work of the state authorities, meets the following conditions: he has a high school arrangement; (there is nothing controversial about this work, but the next part leads to the seriousness of the promoter himself) is recognised by an expert in the field of public economy and financial business in the public sector or other areas of importance for the exercise of the authority of the institution; the government in at least one world language, etc. I ask the motionary who will give him the recognition that he is an expert in the field of public finances? Are there institutions in the state that issue such recognitions? Are we going to some university? You know what Bogoljub Karic will do? He's gonna charge for it, to make money. The knowledge of a world language. What kind of language is world language? What are these criteria that are world language? A man can speak Chinese, he speaks a billion people in that language. (President: Are you using another 10 minutes? And another 10 minutes. So it's not a problem at all. The problem is to determine what the world language is, by which standards. All languages are basically world languages spoken around the world. Living languages, though, some prefer to speak Latin, but that's another problem now. In the final position of Article 17, it is said that at least one of the members of the council must be a graduate lawyer with a passed judicial exam and a working experience in legal professions in the area of public finances. This part has already been regulated in attitude 1. The question arises, when it comes to that lawyer, with which work experience and whether it is a work experience of one day, one year, five years or 10 years. If he had read the bill a little more seriously, he would have seen the problem solved already in attitude 1. So, the condition is set and this part is completely excessive in Article 17. The 19th is again a rather serious failure of the promoter. It is said in paragraph 2 that a member of the Board may not participate and decide in the audit procedure, if he has been employed by a person who is subject to review or performs certain tasks for the account of the audit entity, and since the termination of that employment or the completion of the work has not been for the past two years. Theoretically, hypothetically, and practically, it's very possible that someone was working on the council, in an organization that could be subject to review. It has been two years, the subject matter of the audit has started, and does this mean that this member of the council will be able to participate in a review process, if he directly participated in the business of the audit entity himself, if this is done two years and a day ago. According to the bill, he will be able, and he will be able to protect himself as a member of the council from responsibility. This deadline certainly needs to be increased. Article 20 shows a serious desire for the motion to show the MPs that it is a serious law, and it says in Article 20 that the president, vice-presidents and members of the election council and resolves the Assembly by majority of the votes of the total number of MPs, etc. We bring the budget of the Republic of Serbia to the simple majority. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 80(1), regulates what decisions the Serbian Parliament makes by an absolute majority, means more than half of the total number of MPs. It's only for the government and members of the government. It is regulated by the Constitution and this Article 20. The bill certainly does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, in the last position is the text of the oath. It is seen that it has worked really hard, the text of the oath says, "I swear my loyalty to the Republic, I promise to obey the Constitution and the laws, I swear by the honor of doing my duty independently, honestly, unbiasedly, and I will not abuse my jurisdiction." Since when does an oath promise anything? I really don't know, as an SRS MP, I swore, but I didn't promise anyone anything. You could have written that text a lot simpler, sworn to obey the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia and to do their duty, for example. with moral principles and your honor. Already in Article 21, a rather serious problem allegedly under the pressure of the EU or some directives that allow members of the council to choose for a period of six years. Here is obviously the proposal's wish, because now the question is raised, it is in the light of whether it is an independent audit institution, but here in the Serbian Parliament we have often seen these independent institutions, the political story was that they are independent, and otherwise mostly the members, i.e. the authorities and the people working in those bodies were from political parties forming the congregation's majority. I'd like to ask Mr. Radoik, who is the legislator of this bill, are you sure the members of the council won't be from the policy option G17 plus? When a political party forming a congregation majority holds all financial instruments under the auspices of its party, it is certain that it will not let you form such an institution without its members for six years. Some more appropriate deadline would be as much as the mandate of the MPs. Now it's been elected for six years, so Article 23 provides that you can't even replace the maltenes, so all the audits that can be carried out, while some particular ministry or beneficiary of the budget, which was from G17 plus, will be protected for at least six years. So all financial institutions, from the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank, the Tax Administration, are all allegedly independent bodies in their work, holding one political option. Article 24 reiterates the proposal's desire to prove that this is a serious institution, so an initiative for the resolution of members of the Council can be submitted by at least 30 MPs. For the Prime Minister, your party president – Vojislav Kostunica, 20 MPs are enough and must be on the agenda and 30 for a member of the Council. I don't see that desire to prove a certain seriousness. A person who fulfils the general conditions for working in the national authorities, who has the relevant expertise, experience and government, may be appointed as the Supreme State Auditor. Again, it's just not "recognized expert" anymore, but the world's languages remain in play. It is considered that the relevant expertise for the function of the Supreme State Auditor is owned by a person who has the scientific title and the relevant experience or who has the university education and title – authorized state auditor, according to this law, etc. having at least 10 years of working experience, of which at least eight years of work related to the competences of institutions. The authority that controls the work of the state's chief auditor, at least as far as I've read, is the Council. It takes seven years of experience for a member of the Council. For a top state auditor, who is controlled by a lower authority, greater work experience is needed for a lower body. Then how do you think you control it? Furthermore, in Article 28 paragraph 6 – "A certificate for the audit call-state auditor may be obtained by a person who meets the following conditions", and at point 2) says "he has the appropriate working experience". There's no telling how much work experience it is. It could be one day, it could be a year, five years, 10 years. In any case, the legal basis has one who has a working experience of one minute or one second, until the seal has still cooled down on that solution. (President: Time.) ) Thank you for warning me during the time. The time of the SRS is just coming. (President: I agree, that's what I said once. I will probably take advantage of part of the time of the SRS parliamentary group, when it comes to criticising such a legal proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20798	National MP Radojla Bukvic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20799	Mr. Chairman, dear fellow Members of Parliament, you have injured, Mr. Chairman, the Rules of Procedure, when you earlier allowed Mrs. Verice Radeti to speak beyond the agenda point – the law on revision, when she spoke about the procedure for impeaching the President of the Municipality of Kralje, Mr. Radet Jovic. It is true that some procedure has been carried out, but as the priest has the priest, he has court over him. We'll wait for the final decision, then we'll see who's right. Another difficult disqualification and discrimination among people, Mrs. Radeta says the head of the MP is the King of Cacca and has no right because he is from Cacca. No one asked Mrs. Radet, neither did I, where did she come from to have the right to be an MP in the Serbian Parliament, and a man has no right to be employed by the King.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20800	Mr. Bukvic, Mrs. Radeta reported to the Rules of Procedure, called for a certain member of the Rules of Procedure and explained what she had under that article. I give the word to Mrs. Radetti, the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20801	Thank you, Mr. Zankov, I'll explain to Mr. Bukovich. He wasn't here. Someone probably told him I was talking. I should know that I wasn't talking about the agenda point that's up-to-date right now, so I'm just gonna talk about it. I've spoken to the Rules of Procedure. Any MP can use that right. I used it, I brought out facts that you don't like, and I'm sorry, but what can I do to you, it's... how are you. Radoslav Jovic will be the president of the Kraljevo municipality only until 27 November. The people of the Kings can't wait for that date. He won't be president anymore. You can cry, you can cry, you can whine, you can't help you, I can't help you, and I have no intention, but I'd just ask you not to break the Rules of Procedure. You just broke the Rules of Procedure, you told a lie. The truth is, I've spoken to the Rules of Procedure, and I haven't misused the fact that I'm talking about the agenda point and I'm saying something else entirely. It would be nice to apologize, not to me, but to the National Assembly and the People's MPs, because you don't follow the work. I didn't even know your name until today, since you don't usually answer or participate in the work, but that's your problem. As for the Chief of the Ministry of Interior, you lied, I didn't say that someone who's from Cacca couldn't be the Chief of the Ministry of Interior of the King. Of course he can. Any citizen of the Republic of Serbia can perform any public function and any work in each part of the Republic of Serbia. That's our attitude, and there's nothing controversial about it. It is disputed that Velja Ilic brought his friend to the king for chief, with the intention of finishing some jobs. That's what this Radosav Jovic says, he says, "If the King falls, the whole of Shumadi will fall." That means, if the radicals take the King, they'll take the whole of the Shumadi. Fortunately for the Kings, fortunately for Shumadija, fortunately for Serbia, the radicals want to take power in both the King and the whole of Šumadija and all of Serbia. There is neither clear nor disputable. Serbian citizens are eager to wait for the next election, and will show you for a start on November 27th what attitude they have towards the president of the Kraljevo municipality, and this is their relationship with the others behind the Radosav Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20802	In the order of the MPs of the people, I give the word to the MP of the people, Verica Radeta, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20803	To avoid confusion, the draft law on the state audit institution is on the agenda. I am using the right of the MP, member of the SRS parliamentary group, dear colleagues, to speak of this item of the agenda. I have no doubts about the fair intentions of counterpart Radojko Obradovic, who is the legislator of this law. The man is obviously aware of the situation in Serbia, how much corruption has taken hold in every segment of society in Serbia. Coli Obradovic apparently had an honorable intention to help this law free the institutions in Serbia from corruption, free themselves from thieving and finally begin to live and act the way the Serbian citizens expect us to. Regardless of the help from all sides, what counterpart Radojko Obradovic was talking about here, about who was all helping this task force, from the OSCE, the European Union, various white-world experts, has not yet done a good text of this law. It is not good in the sense that we will not improve the state of crime by applying this law. Unfortunately, crime has taken so much from top state officials and top public workers that it's just scary. Since 2000, all politicians of the ruling so-called democratic parties, from the time of the government of Zoran Djindjic, Zoran Zivkovic, today Vojislav Kostunica, have sworn to the citizens of Serbia and swear to the public that we have independent courts, independent prosecutors and depolitised police. Incidentally, if all of this were true, then it would be less of a need and less of a rush to pass this law that we're discussing today. Unfortunately, our courts are neither independent nor our prosecutions are independent, nor our police are depolitized. I will remind you, respected colleagues of the six billion dollars promised, were waiting at the border at the end of 2000, and then we were told by followers Zoran Djindjic, DSS, DSS, GSS and other parties and parties, who made up the DOS coalition, that only the authorities should remove Slobodan Milosevic, that a new, so-called democratic regime should come, that the kidnapping of Slobodan Milosevic and his departure to The Hague involve six billion dollars for Serbian citizens. The citizens of Serbia, in the absence, of fact, were even bigger then, and now they thought, let's vote, and after those elections of 6 billion, everyone counted on getting a piece of their cake. Unfortunately, the citizens were then deceived, and fortunately the citizens quickly realized that they were then deceived. Why am I bringing this up? Because I think it would be good, and no one has explained to us so far how whoever's sharing those six billion dollars that came then with democracy in Serbia, who steals that money. Perhaps it would be good, colleague Obradovic, if you had somehow predicted that this institution should deal with this kind of audit and problem. So again, independent courts, independent prosecutors and depolitic police in each country guarantee legal certainty, guarantee the existence of a rule of law, and Serbia is not a legal state, Serbia has no legal certainty. And if there were, then surely so far we would know what's going on with the theft of the public enterprise, it's Elektrodits, what about the National Savings, what about Hamovic, Lazarevic, what about the money Mladjan Dinkic stole through the National Savings Bank, what about a figure that costs 70,000 dinars, which she also bought from state money, Marija Raseta, a close associate of Boris Tadic. What about the 65 dinar spoons also bought by Marija Raseta, what about the tax evasion of Governor Jelasic's villa, which is with many billions that these three governments, officials of these governments and officials have stolen from Serbian citizens' pockets. That's why we Serbian radicals advocate and talk every time it comes to any law concerning the judiciary, that in Serbia, independent courts must finally be established, to establish an independent prosecutor's office and to free the police. Until that happens, free all the laws, free and this law and the one about the police, which we'll talk about in a few days. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is not in Serbia's laws, the problem is with those who enforce the laws. The fact that you have been told in the European Union that our laws are not modern enough and adapted to the laws of the European Union, of course not true. In some parts, in certain segments, it certainly takes some laws to modernise, to adapt to new trends, to adapt at least to the termological transition from socialism to capitalism, nothing is disputed. It is disputed that the laws we have, whatever they are, laws must be applied, laws must be the same for everyone, and as long as they do not, as long as the executive power affects the judiciary, while it affects the police, or part of the police, the investigative authorities, the law enforcement authorities, there is no justice in Serbia. Crime will flourish in Serbia, just as it is now booming. The control of public income and public expenditure is, said counterpart Obradovic when speaking about this law, the priority of this institution, which is foreseen by this law and of course, is not disputed that public income and expenditure should be controlled, but is not enough to do so this way, because it is impossible. It's impossible to build an independent institution. I was saying that the other day when it was about some other law, we Serbian radicals keep telling you about it, you can't treat people who are party members like they're lepers, so in every law, you predict that they can't do this or that, that they can't perform someone who's a member of a political party. Of course, we think that every conscious being in Serbia today should be politically defined, that it knows which political option is being declared and there is no reason for anyone to hide that he is a member of a political party and that it must not be a distraction for him to be elected to any body. Of course, the condition is that he has to do his job with honor and integrity and that he cannot abuse the fact that he is a member of a political party, so that he can apply the law in a different way for the party or for the members of that party, rather than for other citizens. Do you think, fellow MPs, that Serbian citizens think that Mladjan Dinkic is more honest now because he tried to make "the affair of Davinic", because he said, well, Davinic was his party colleague, so he resented him, though, he did not say that he resented him, but it is obvious that it is, so he disowns his party friend, for God's sake. What's going on? Mile Dragic is in custody for 300 euros, and Davinic was military minister until yesterday. Yesterday, he was inherited by a pathologist, no better than this last man, Carla del Ponte, direct exponent of Carla del Ponte. He confessed on the first day that he lied when he said he didn't go for Carly del Ponte's opinion, admitted that he did, agreed with her whether to take over this function or not. So, such people can't be on certain functions, and that Stankovic is saying he's not a member of any party, that doesn't mean he can and can do this job, of course he can or can't. But the will of the present majority is like that, so you do what you think is best, and it's all about your head getting shot in the next election. I am the only one who is sorry, and for all of us in the SRS, what all your failures mean is an extension of the agony to the citizens of Serbia and is making life more difficult for the citizens of Serbia. When it comes to this law on the state audit institution, or the draft law, we have in principle no objection to such a law being passed, but if you have already decided on such a law, then you should have done this text more seriously. My colleague Obradovic told me that several amendments to the SRS have been accepted on the Committee, and I do not have a report that the amendments have been accepted. But regardless, I will mention the members to which we have intervened the amendment, with the aim and purpose of making this law so that it can be applied. Article 6 provides for the Council to adopt its rules of procedure, with prior consent from the Assembly. It's meant for the Serbian Parliament. Since the law does not provide for the existence of the Statute of this institution, the amendment stipulates that all acts adopted in this institution are subject to the obligation to obtain consent of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia because there is no legal basis for which the future act of the institution could rely. I don't know if this amendment has been accepted or not, but in any case it's necessary to regulate it in exactly this way. In Article 17, said counterpart Arsic, it is envisaged that a member of the Council could, among other things, be elected a citizen of the Republic of Serbia who, among other things, is "a recognised expert in the field of public economy and financial business in the public sector or other areas of importance for the exercise of the authority of the institution, has at least one world language and has at least 10 years of working experience". So, this "recognized expert" coin of yours is really something you invented, and that criterion is probably just familiar to you. What does it mean to admit an expert? To you, Mladjan Dinkic is an expert, and to us he is a criminal. Where do we meet here? Recognising an expert is something individual, i.e. if someone really is an expert should be recognized in the general public and whether only at the level of Serbia or beyond, but it must have scientific papers, publications, something tangible, and so it is said. So, not to admit an expert but to one who has published so many and so many scientific papers from that area, it is something concrete, not so abstractly, to admit an expert. I'm just wondering who's going to propose and choose this recognized expert. How will someone who chooses to negotiate who he is and why someone is an expert? A moment ago, it hurt when Mr. Arsic spoke about the language and when he said that every language was worldly, it was very uncomfortable to listen to laughter on this side. Gentlemen, if you think you should be proud of your English language and thus neglect Serbian language, you should be ashamed of it, not to laugh at those of us who are trying to explain that it is Serbian – the language spoken in Serbia, that the Cyrillic is a letter written in Serbia and that it must be respected at least here in this House. Does anyone know any other language, that's his thing, his advantage in his personal communication. Any job, if it's a government job, of course the state will provide an interpreter to someone who can't agree on another language. Even if a serious man, a serious politician, a serious statesman, who cares about his country will never officially speak a foreign language because he holds to his country, holds to his own language, his own origin and his own history, will speak his own language. That's why I felt terrible listening to your laugh about knowing a world language. In the final position of Article 17, it is foreseen that at least one of the members of the council must be a graduate lawyer and something completely unnecessary has been added, with a passed judicial exam and a working experience on legal professions in the area of public finances. This is unnecessary, because paragraph 1 contains conditions that must be met by that member of the council, so this is a repeat within one member in two different attitudes. You have provided in Article 19 that a member of the Council may not participate and decide in the audit procedure, if he has been employed by a person who has been subject to an audit or has performed certain tasks for the account of the audit entity, if from termination to employment or completion of the work has not been completed for two years. We Serbian radicals think it's a short period and it should take at least five years. I don't think you have a specific explanation for why it's been two years, and we think five years is simply more appropriate. In Article 20, we intervened with the amendment. It says that the president, vice-presidents and members of the Council elect and resolve the Assembly by a majority of the total number of MPs. We predicted that it would be most of the MPs present, for the simple reason that it was so regulated by Article 1 80. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So our intention was for this law, which you will vote, not to be unconstitutional at the beginning. In article 21, you predicted that a member of the Council would be elected for a period of six years and elected members of the Council could be selected no more than twice. So this six-year-old joke of yours is something you've already been through the Civil Service Act and the State Administration Act. Your intention is obvious to place your people at the adoption and entry into force of these laws, to set them up and appoint them for a six-year term, so that you have control and after the next elections, since it is certainly very clear to you that after the next election of the map and how they will be mixed up, and then just in case you say, we will now come up with this democratic fluid, and we will choose these people for six years and after six years you have your fingers involved in everything that's been done after you. In Article 24(2), you provided that an initiative for the discharge of members of the Council could be submitted by at least 30 MPs. That's not a good solution, and I guess that's adopted. (Radojko Obradovic, from the post: It has been adopted. Thank you. Yes, because it is logical, because it can no longer be foreseen for the resolution of a member of the Council, but for a member of the government or the entire government. In article 32 you have these six years, and we intervened to be four years. In Article 33, i.e. above that member, you have written the term – external experts. We have suggested to you, according to the SRS's views, that other people's words are not used in our laws, that instead of "exterior" you write "sex" experts. I suppose you should write the law for the citizens of Serbia and every citizen who reads it in "The Official Messenger" should know exactly what you wrote. That putting in other people's expressions, let's use them in everyday speech, that's your personal problem, but to get into laws, that's unacceptable. In article 35, you have provided for a review programme compulsory each year, covering the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the organisation of mandatory social security, the corresponding number of units of local self-government, the business of the National Bank of Serbia, which refers to the use of public funds and this is fine, but we do not understand why, if you did not remember yourself, you did not accept our amendment that these audits are subject to certain NGOs. Of course, we have no intention and we do not think that it should interfere with the work of every NGO, but that we should also have to control anti-Serbian NGOs, in which Sonja Biserko, Biljana Kovacevic-Vuco, Kandićka, etc. act. Indeed, you all know here, everyone in Serbia knows that these NGOs are financed by suspicious funds from abroad, that they are working contrary to the interests of the Republic of Serbia and Serbian citizens. At least one routine control wouldn't be a waste. Of course, I know you won't accept it because one part of the ruling coalition is afraid to deal with Kandicka, Biserka, Vuc and other NGOs' feathers, and part of the government of the Republic of Serbia is working closely with them, so there is no interest in accepting this. We provided for in Article 51 to delete the last position, which says: "The start of work of an institution can be financed from the funds of donations of a non-audited domestic legal entity, in accordance with this law or by a foreign legal or natural person". This formulation, you'll allow, is very suspicious and can lead to abuse, because I don't know what would happen if the audit subject was in business co-operation with the donor. Who's going to control who and in what way? We simply don't think that the law should provide for norms that can lead to abuse in the law itself, because I guess I correctly understood the colleague of Obradovic, the legislator of this law, that his intention is to reduce illegality, crime and corruption at least a little bit more, not to promote them through this law. In the end, it was incomprehensible that this law was meant to enter into force on the eighth day. What kind of speed has made government officials rush this bill so fast they can't comply with constitutional provisions on the entry of laws and other acts into force? So SRS MPs will not vote for this law because we think it will not reduce corruption and crime in Serbia. The SRS MPs are still in favour, and they will advocate, in order to address the situation in the judiciary, the police. We continue to argue that in the fight against crime and corruption, which is so present in Serbia, only independent justice, namely independent courts, independent prosecutors and depolitised police, can be committed. We guarantee this to the citizens of Serbia after the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20804	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Vladimir Homan came forward. After that, MPs Velimir Simonovic, Zoran Antic, Istvan Ispanovic, will have the word. Here you go, Mr. Humane.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20805	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm advertising a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure - dignity of the National Assembly. We heard from the MP of the SRS, who usually falls apart on all stitches, when they lost another MP. About the situation at the local level, about the situation on local committees and running away from their committees everywhere, not to mention. We hear a variety of opinions that don't belong to the National Assembly's pay phone, we hear about what they think and who the finance minister is, whether he's like this or not, so no wonder what you say, for all of us the finance minister is professional, and for you he's a criminal. For you, Vojislav Seselj is a Serbian hero, and for the whole world he is also charged with detention in The Hague tribunal for the worst and greatest crimes, so it is no wonder that your opinion is as it is. I would appeal to all MPs in this room that, when they come out for this pay phone, they are talking about a subject that is on the agenda, they are not insulting the MPs, nor the other persons and politicians in this country, but they are saying, if they have anything to say, something about the law and the amendments or what is on the agenda, and they are not talking about their various opinions, which have a completely different attitude than the whole world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20806	Mr. Humane, therefore, that was Article 104. Since I wasn't in the previous part, I don't know what this exposure is about. I ask all MPs to respect Article 104 that you have just called upon, the dignity of the National Assembly, the manner in which the debate is being held, and in particular, I ask you, it is not correct to call in the replicas and on the part of the agenda of absent people, any people who will be here tomorrow, so they can be referred to their remarks, as in the Rules of Procedure, when it comes to ministers, it will be possible that the Administrative Board adopts it, and I think that it will be tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, according to the new Rules of Procedure, there will be special sessions at which ministers will answer. At the same time, I ask that there is no reason for people, who are currently in a difficult position, to call in whatever way they are and to give opinions about the parties what is happening to them at the bar. I've heard it many times today, and I'm asking everyone to refrain from it, respecting the dignity of the National Assembly. Mrs. Radet answered the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20807	I'll forgive you, Mr. President, you weren't there, so you didn't hear. I'm guessing you weren't here to give your colleague Homan his word, because he didn't have a reason to speak. In my debate, I didn't mention the party he belonged to. I was talking about Mladjan Dinkic, and I made the SRS point that Mladjan Dinkic is a criminal, and we keep saying that. And you, Mr. Markovic, cannot direct the MPs to what they will and how they will speak. We present our reasonable doubts, we have the right to raise such doubts. Who doesn't like it, I'm really sorry, but we can't change our mind just because someone doesn't like it. The minister is a public figure, every public figure must be patient to say everything anyone has to say about him. So we always speak in principle. As far as the SRS is concerned, thank you for asking, the SRS has no problems, unlike you from G17, Mr. Humane. It may happen to us that someone insecure and some scum from a man may buy your party, but it will never happen to a Serbian radical party to what you did in the past, with you that evil in Serbia has started. You from G17 have inserted a MP into the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at a time when you did not participate at all in the elections, i.e. you did not exist as a political party at all, and you introduced a man as a MP. So you are the idea makers of the use and theft of Serbia's parliament. As for the president of Serbian radicals, Mr Vojislav Seselj, thank you for your concern, Mr. President, Mr. Seselj is well, thank God. In what position he is, don't comment. He volunteered to go to The Hague. He went to defend and, rest assured, defend the interests of Serbia and the Serb people. We are proud of our president, everything he does in The Hague. We really miss him here. We are fully convinced that he will return very soon as the winner of that criminal, call the court and will do what he promised Serbian citizens and what he promised at a big rally on February 23rd two years ago when we sent him away. We, his friends, party colleagues, promised him then that we would free Serbia from the Dossmanian regime, crime, corruption. We took the first step in the last election. The other follows in the election that follows.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20808	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Simonovic, and then MP Zoran Antic. I just repeat the same kind of warning and refer to all MPs, of course, I cannot forbid anyone, but I ask everyone to respect the dignity of the Assembly and respect the personal dignity of the people who come from the congregation or represent the parties that are in the congregation. Here you go, Mr. Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20809	I want to say a few words in principle about this law. I won't talk about the need for such a law and its importance, since the draftr has explained enough. A few notes, though. First, an independent review in the public sector represents Parliament's infrastructure, public income control and public expenditure, which is a mandatory position. Furthermore, an independent public sector review is the basis for the development of the country's democratic system. Third, the public sector review is independent and impartial and without any external influences, checking and functioning of the system of responsibility in the state administration and the public sector in general, and without which there is no faster progress in the economic and social sense for our country. Finally, an independent revision of this sector is a key factor in achieving the long-term stability of the country's monetary system. These are some attitudes that give rise to the need and importance of such a law. What I want to point out, and given my profession, we don't have enough experts for this kind of revision provided for in this law. It will take our high schools and colleges to supplement and modify their curricula and programmes in order to be able to educate the required number of experts who could carry out such independent audit control. The foundation needs to change the education of staff, and in addition, it needs to be understood that audit work is not a technical and accounting business. It's a deep ethical profession, it takes people to prepare themselves and they have to have certain properties that they will acquire through the education system. Let me mention it. First, they must have extremely high individual integrity. Second, they need to learn to think systematically. Third, they should have an initiative to take risks and creativity. They must then be able to give their own opinion and take into account someone else's opinion. They must be able to indicate the implications of the procedures of their or other participants, as well as that they can be able to understand the consequences of the procedures and the corrections of the procedures when necessary, etc. So for such people, a new education is needed, so when we pass this law these days, universities need to take care and prepare programmes and curricula for such people to be educated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20810	Thank you, Mr. Simonovic. The People's Messenger Zoran Antić has the word, and then the People's Messenger Istvan Ispanović, and the People's Messenger Stevica Dedjanski. Here you go, Mr Antic. Another announcement, compared to how we're going to work today, tomorrow we'll be working until the end of the 12th item of the agenda at the latest. This means that, believing in the responsibility and efficiency of the MPs, there will be no session Thursday. Not because it's St. Friday, but because we're going to do the part effectively planned for this week. They will be able to prepare until further discussion and amendment. On Monday, it'll be 10 o'clock, 13 o'clock on the agenda, and that's a good guess, the Police Act. Thank you. Here you go, Mr Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20811	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the intention to deal with public finances in any case is well-intentioned and is welcome at this time when daily various affairs are filled with news columns, to see how much negligence the government and some other institutions are dealing with public finances. This is Mr. Obradovic's intention, in any case, to be welcomed. What is our wish and what bothers us is that at this point we have not entered the process of comprehensive control of all audit houses, including those dealing with commercial audits. The state auditory house, which is referred to in this law, will be able to live up to probably two years from now. The first fruits of that state auditory house will be in that period. Meanwhile, the privatisation process will be completed. I am quite sure that Mr. Obradovic, as a man who deals with the problem of review, has a lot of information on how the privatisation process is audited and that there are also a lot of crime. I'm sorry he didn't take advantage of the opportunity to, dealing with the audit problem, deal with the fact that the state is miscontrolling the audit houses today. We are in the situation that in the privatisation process, under investments, used machines, import machines, they are evaluated in a dozen or a hundred times larger amounts than they really are and thus rob social property and, thus, irritated the citizens of Serbia who created it decades ago. Control of auditors and audit houses is a major problem facing our society today. It seems to me that at first sight the well-intentioned goal of Mr Obradovic, who is also an MP of the ruling coalition, is that he bypassed the problems of commercial auditors, which bypassed the privatisation problems in which I also know that he understands very well. In fact, it's an attempt to get away from these problems and to deal with some topics that at this point, in any case, are not priority. We have many laws that have not been passed, which would prevent corruption, kidnapping and small shareholders in the value-market area, which have been avoiding corruption for a long time, and, knowingly, I would say, the ruling majority is running away from these problems. It's absolutely certain that we had to deal with it first of all, it's something that's urgent, something that's already waiting for us, and with the state's audit problem we have time and it's good to move and it's good to have a will. We shouldn't put these problems that are more urgent. I would like, in the end, to say that the SRS accepts international audit standards in any case and advocates their implementation under all laws. We are aware that in the process of transition, where we are, we have institutions that are not at an envious level and that need to be strengthened by other people's experiences. In any case, this law, when it comes to life, will solve and improve the situation in the area of public finances. Avoiding these problems, once again I want to underline, relating to commercial auditors and who are deeply compromising the privatisation process itself, is unacceptable. As an MP, I personally express a protest that made these problems not in the text of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20812	Thank you, Mr Antic. The People's Messenger Ispanović Istvan, then the People's Messenger Stevica Dedjanski, and the People's Messenger, Heliana Dragojevic. I thank you for your understanding of Mr. Obradovic, who you are here in front of the board, or subcommittee on finance, the promoter. Thank you for understanding. Here you go, Mr. Ispanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20813	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must express my satisfaction that this bill has come on the agenda. In fact, there have been some reflections in the previous term that such a law should be passed, after whether the first constitution and then the law, so that in the draft constitution, which began in the previous term, was a special provision on the Serbian state's accounting court. In fact, this institution is called the Court of Auditors in many countries. This institution exists in all countries, especially in transition countries, so it was necessary for us to find time to discuss a bill like this. Obviously, there are many wanderings about what the Court of Auditors is or as we call it – the State Audit Institution. If I wanted to simply explain what this is about, then I could compare it to the Constitutional Court, which in every country controls constitutionality and legality, and this court, which is not a court, controls the legal spending of public revenue. It is necessary to reduce and limit the possibility of corruption. In fact, no matter what there is a budget inspection, she doesn't have all these responsibilities that this new institute will have. Here, in the light of the law, the status of the new institute is stated. The most important thing is that it's an independent and independent organ. So there is no impact on the work of this audit institution. In particular, if the provisions of Article 10 are taken into account, then you can see how important this audit institution is, since virtually all public expenditures that go through other institutions in any way, such as transfer funds are controlled. It is particularly important that the funds that go to political parties can now be controlled. In some countries in transition, when such a regulation was passed, it was not envisaged to check funds through connected persons, so there were many cases that the budgets went through connected persons to some accounts which, of course, the state audit institution could not control. So this is where the funds are supposed to be controlled all the way to the end-users. There has been talk of whether the National Bank needs to be controlled, in what extent, whether all funds or just public revenue. Of course, it's only the funds that represent public revenues, because the National Bank is also an independent organisation. I think that, with those amendments that we're going to accept, and there's a lot of amendments and there's a lot of objections from the government, we're going to have a modern and good law and our G17 Plus party is going to support this law and I'm proposing to the other parties, or MPs of the other parties, to also support the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20814	The People's Messenger Stevica Dedjanski has the word, and the People's Messenger Heliana Dragojevic, and Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20815	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is another one in a series of laws, which in principle, in practice and theory, mean nothing. You, as it is known, have worked hard over the past period to fill the number of laws and to boast of it as your success. If it's any success, then maybe you've done something. I would have to remind a little more citizens, even if you forgot in that whole series of laws how you made the citizens happy and what laws you passed, that the people of Serbia would be better off. I would mention the infamous pension law that makes pensioners much better, then taking care of the family, then the Law of Intermediation, so on the peaceful settlement of labour disputes, where you have disproved every worker in this country, and then the NIS Act, which we expect to be better for all of us, to live in prosperity. You're left behind with the affairs you've been opening, starting with the Ericson affair where Dad took care of his daughter and got her some scholarship, and then the National Savings, the thieving of the decade of our Nobel laureate, which some of us are proud of here, and then so on. "pancer of the affair", where no one in the end, or Davinic, or Marovic, or Dragic. Suddenly since the affair of a decade, there's nothing left, so then the assassination of an Irish setter on our "barbico" to the president of the Democratic Party, and then the sugars, again, that caring dad who introduced us to sanctions, then electricity, etc. After all, you leave unresolved problems that are now coming to us, although you have promised a quick solution from unemployment to Kosovo and Metohija, even to the fact that we have imposed problems by the European Parliament in Vojvodina, for which we have found no understanding, that we are discussing and that there is no such thing. This law is only one in a row, because it does not actually solve any problem, but it partially solves the problems of public enterprises, so I go back to what I just said, and I'm convinced that this goal is again EPS, NIS and everything that awaits us in the spring, everything that has survived and that still works and works, which our country has control over, you're ready to destroy and destroy. The audit houses that now exist, which Vlahovic mainly founded, and the current DOS inherited in this form, in the meantime will help rob other companies in Serbia, will create a new one, as you like to say, controversial businessmen. The companies, where they are the main ones, where the audit houses run the privatisation and evaluate, they will be able to privatise themselves, and those who do not have them for advisors and auditors will not be able to. You know how privatization has been done in the past, and you yourself said you'd deal with it, but nothing. Taking down the value of the company in front of the privatisation itself, that's how privatisations are staged. Even an example from today's newspaper, which I accidentally read earlier, the Inpros company, estimated at 130 million, sold for 6.5 million to a Slovenian firm. What happened? That's the meaning of all your actions so far. Machines from the company, although sold for a living, have been moved to Slovenia, the dirty technology remains in Serbia, as before. It all comes back at a time when we were in Slovenia carrying the fruit that was taken here and produced "Fructal" juices. I had to mention that because the citizens know what's ahead of us in the next period. If you really wanted a solution to all these problems, bring in bisons to prevent corruption. This is our problem as a society – the fight against corruption and crime. You have to solve that, but then there's nothing in your pockets. That's the main problem of this society. A global solution for Serbia would be your resignation, to forget you as soon as possible, all together.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20816	The People's MP Heliana Dragojevic has the word, and the People's Messenger Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20817	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at today's session, we are discussing the draft law on the State Auditing Institution. This is a new law in our positive legal system, which should regulate the establishment, operation, legal position, jurisdiction, organisation and other issues of importance for the work of the state audit institution. The purpose of the supreme audit institution, according to the World Bank theory, is to oversee the management of public funds, the quality and credibility of the finance data submitted by the Government, that is to influence the Government, to file accounts for the spending of state funds. It is an external audit service that is authorized to report to the legislative branch of the government, not the government. In our Republic, the supervision of the spending of public funds is carried out, on a smaller scale, by the Office for Budgetary Inspection and Audit under the Ministry of Finance, as a form of internal audit and the first level of supervision of entities using public funds. This type of surveillance is in the production phase. In parallel, although similar in terms of authority, the Supreme Audit Institutions differ according to their structure and according to the political system and tradition of a concrete state. For example, in Canada, the first independent general auditor was appointed in 1878. In Russia, these jobs are entrusted to the accounting control chamber, which was established by the 1994 law. The same year, the Court of Auditors was established in the Republic of Slovenia. Serbia is the only country in Europe that has no institutions and mechanisms for independent audit control of public income and expenditure that would be outside the administration and independent of its authorities. For each supreme audit institution, its independence and independence in all respects, resulting first and foremost from legal regulations, financial independence and independence in the adoption of annual audit plans, as well as in their implementation. Under the draft law, a state audit institution, as the highest body of public funds audit in Serbia, is established as an independent and independent state body with legal personality, which corresponds exclusively to the legislative authority or the Assembly to carry out operations under its jurisdiction. Parliament, as the highest supervisory authority, can successfully carry out its supervisory function only with good support from the Supreme Auditing Institution, without neglecting the role of internal audit as the first level of supervision of entities using public funds. The proposed legal solutions governing the status and organisation of the structure of the institution are defined by the subject-matter of the audit and the audit process itself, my predecessors said. My intention is to point out the necessity of adopting this law, which would create a legal framework for establishing an independent audit institution, whose work is expected to have multiple positive effects related to improving the work of the Assembly, the Government, strengthening the financial supervision system, the public sector, the rule of law and the development of democracy. The DSS MPs will support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20818	The word has a National MP Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20819	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us the first law to propose a group of MPs. Rapporteur i.e. The representative of this legal project is Mr. Rade Obradovic. It was attended by the Finance Committee, a special task force that we formed. To remind the MPs, the task force was intended to be composed of representatives of all political groups. Unfortunately, some political groups do not want to participate in such projects. I think they're making a huge mistake, especially when the topics are the control of public finances. We are the people's chosen ones, and we are obliged that what the taxpayers give us is controlled not only by the law, but also by the formation of certain services, as proposed by the law here, we do. I think it's the duty of the MPs to participate actively in this. This is not a legal project by the executive government of the Republic of Serbia, this is a legislative proposal written by lawmakers. So this is the first legal project that comes right from these benches, and I regret to say that not everyone participated. But their sin on their soul. As for the proposal itself, I'll remind you that we had something similar in the previous term. In fact, Professor Predrag Stojanovic wrote a legislative proposal that could be filed under a proposal that would establish a similar audit institution. Unfortunately, after many trips and many days used in writing this proposal, we even had one presentation of this legal project on the Finance Committee in the previous term, nothing written in this assembly remained on the project. Strong money was spent, and that project wasn't to be used when we wrote this new bill. It just proves the so-called. the reform course of previous authorities. It seems to me that this reform course has been done before by words than by deeds themselves. When I say it's sad what's written, I guess there's some smart stuff in there. I want to take into account the fact that this law would live in our society, not just in our country, we have a number of experiences from countries in the environment, it takes time. It was written by the promoter, Mr. Rade Obradovic. Professor Simonovic also talked about it. So it takes time, training the frame, building institutions and using what you shouldn't do. In the legal project itself, we have a well-distributed jurisdiction of certain parts that make up the state audit institution itself. The Council is clearly defined, it is an independent body, MPs choose the Council here in the Assembly. Then we have the president of the institution, who has certain obligations. We have their obligation under the law to report regularly, first of all, the financial committee, then the entire National Assembly. So these are the important things that make this country stable, arranged for new investments over the necessary, in order to employ and earn as many of our people as possible from their own work. These are the intentions of this law, and it takes time and above all good will. I hope Serbia has a good will, Serbia is at a crossroads at the moment, we have a number of obligations towards international institutions. It's not easy to meet. On the other hand, Serbia is threatened with a debt crisis. That's what the people need to know. I expect the Republic government to speak clearly about this, that such a message is just telling the citizens of Serbia, and on the other hand we have negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija. We think it's very important. Please, at least when such legal projects are at stake, when there is the good will of the promoter to accept a number of amendments that are not essential in nature, and thus it is shown that whoever criticised this law, in principle, supports this law, we can at least accept so little, that at these times we gather around one law, only in favour of the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20820	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? Here you go, Mrs. Chekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20821	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Obradovic, on a discussion that lasts in our Parliament for almost two hours, I would say that we have a good law. I am not just saying this because the Committee on Finance has set up a subcommittee in which I am a participant in the draft of this law, but because the objections that have come from the ranks of MPs did not go in the direction in which the law loses its intention, purpose and purpose. As we first face this law and for the first time in Serbia this law has been offered, I consider this a success and I am very pleased that we all agreed that this law controls the executive authority and that whoever is doing this executive power, that we who are now proposing this law or someone else, there is a need for just this kind of control, control of that executive authority. This law, in Articles 10 and 11, gives space, space, so it lists everything that will be the control of this audit facility, and I am sure that this includes all the flows of money and that we have legally sent the money that comes from the republican budget and often comes to local self-government, and that we have sent that part of the money that has come to our country over the last few years through donations, and I agree with my colleagues from the SRS, who have put serious doubts about spending that money. It's better to start with the law on time, so we don't keep filling newspapers and press conferences into what this law needs to do. The intention of those of us who tried to do the best we could was to provide the institution with independence and to bind the responsibility of the institution to this Parliament. I hope these members of the law are not challenged and will remain as the main defence pillar of this law. If we apply everything and consider that the law shows its shortcomings by applying and we realize that we are ahead of the adoption of the republican budget, that the republican budget in financial terms must find room for this law, that this law finds its time in six or seven months, I hope that next year in this House, with such or different convocation, it will be decided by voters and will have enough reason to praise this law. I say once again, if there is a need, in certain members we will correct it. Our intention was best, just because we're the bearers of power at the moment, and we've proposed a law that controls executive power, it speaks of our honesty. You will decide with your votes whether or not we have proposed a law that suits you. I'm sure the state needs it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20822	Thank you, Mrs. Cekovic. The floor has a representative of the promoter, National MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20823	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here we are at the end of the debate in principle. We'll talk about the amendments, I'd just like to finally look at a few questions that have been raised here and they're looking for an explanation. As Sanja Cekovic said, we created one working group and were absolutely open to all those who wanted to take part. What our position has been since the beginning of these talks, which is ultimately defined by our Constitution, is that the final court of law is being passed here. So, not anywhere else. We have consulted all the people from abroad who have helped us make this law look like this. Knowledge is knowledge, but experience is something that is difficult to replace with theoretical analysis and thinking about a topic. We've talked to people who have been involved in the state audit for 10 or 20 years, we've talked about the problems that they're facing and everything that we think is necessary we've put into this bill. We also, when we organized round tables here in Belgrade, opened a website on which we received suggestions and remarks and consulted all those we thought could help us make this law better. The question has been raised whether this institution will be strong, or whether the law gives it the opportunity to be strong. The institution will be as strong as parliament will want to help it do its job. You can put whatever you want into the law, we can make the best possible law, and if the state audit doesn't have the support of parliament now or anytime in the future, that institution won't be strong and will not be able to do its job. So it's not just a matter of law, it's a matter of will in parliament. At this point, as for all those who have done this law, and these were not only MPs of the position, but also MPs of the opposition, we have the will to make a strong institution. How strong she'll be, we'll see in the period ahead of us. When we talk about independence, the question is what is really independence. The institution will be independent of the executive authority and the executive authority in no way can influence the creation of plans of this institution, the creation of financial plans and the revision process. How independent she will also depend on the organ she chooses and the organ she controls, which is the National Assembly. The institution will help address the problem of corruption. We had almost a meeting where they were representatives of parliament, practically from all parties, and we talked about the independence of financial institutions and financial markets. When the Enron issue was raised, so countries with highly developed financial markets, countries with highly developed institutions, which is the United States, the answer was, Enron happened because of corruption. Therefore, no one is immune to corruption and it is for all countries to build mechanisms to fight corruption. The state audit opens the way for us to get into this business, and whoever thinks he has a prescription that can get rid of it in a month or two, I'd like to see it too. As far as privatisation is concerned, this institution has the right and jurisdiction to control the Ministry of Business and the Privatisation Agency can directly control any privatisation through the control of these two authorities. That's why we didn't specifically count, because if you say he can control the Ministry and the Government, of course he can also privatize. When we have made plans for the work of this institution, these are plans that involve mandatory audits, there are institutions and bodies that spend or go through the most state money. This is the budget of the Republic of Serbia, mandatory social security, the largest public enterprises, the NBS. NGOs are subject to review. There's a possibility of controlling NGOs as well. But if you look at the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and soon it will be on the budget for 2006, less than one change of funding passes through NGOs. Therefore, when plans are made on the relevant committee in the Assembly, when a state audit is being discussed, any of the MPs can say – we believe that there is a need to control this institution and that institution, but to introduce a commitment to control someone who spends tens of thousands or several tens of thousands of euros rather than control someone who spends billions of euros, we felt that it was not serious enough. There is absolutely a possibility that any of the MPs, when the institution is working and in regular communications, ask the relevant committee to carry out a specific review and this institution will do so. It's important to move into this business, and it takes time for the institution to reach capacity. It is not realistic to expect you to create a new body, start building it, and that on the first day it has full capacity to perform its functions. That takes time. I sincerely hope that the Serbian Parliament, in this and all future stages, will be the real support and help this body do its job in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-25-0.u20824	Thank you, Mr. Beard. It is a great pleasure that for the first time we have a law in which all parliamentary groups, as well as representatives of all parties, have participated, either in the legal preparation or during the amendments. Allow me a little personal pride that I stood at the beginning of this process and that in agreement we all put on the agenda as soon as possible, means before the budget is passed, because we believe that this institution, which is the only National Assembly in the region, is able to do its job. Thank you all for your responsibility. I'm finishing the search. We'll continue at 10.00 tomorrow. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 84 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. one-third of those present and there is a condition for the start of the working day. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Dusan Prorokovic and Miroslav Markicevic. We move on to the 11th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on SPORTROGOVIN BUSINESS (principles) You have received the proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time for discussion is five hours, I remind you that for the SRS parliamentary group it is one hour 36 minutes; DSS – one hour three minutes 36 seconds; DS – 43 minutes 12 seconds; G17 plus – 37 minutes 12 seconds; SPS – 26 minutes 24 seconds; New Serbia and independent MPs 9+9 – 21 minutes 36 seconds; MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, four SPS MPs, two SDP MPs and four independent MPs, five minutes each, based on Article 93 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. At the same time, I would like to inform you that representatives are authorised in front of the parliamentary groups for this item of the agenda: for the SRS parliamentary group, MP Veroljub Arsic; for the G17 plus MP Goran Jaksic; for the New Serbia parliamentary group and the independent MPs 9+9 National MP Radojla Bukvic. The mandated representative for the DSS will be MP Palalic, just waiting for the document. Does the proposal's representative, Dr Milan Parivodic, minister of economic relations with abroad, want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
