ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17634	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 93 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 90 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented by the following MPs: Goran Knezevic, Natasa Micic, Dejan Rajcic and Ivan Zivadinović. We move to the 33rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Obligations of Social Security (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Gordana Pop-Lazić, Veroljub Arsic, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Momir Marković, Milan Stevović, Bozidar Koprivica, Jovan Todorovic, Svetlana Stojanović, Vukav Tomašević and Miroslav Janković. National MPs Svetlana Stojanovic, Vukosav Tomaševic and Miroslav Jankovic have writtenly informed them that they are withdrawing amendments they have submitted to Article 4. It's a bill of law. You have received amendments from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Government's opinion on amendments submitted to the bill. You have received a report from the Finance Committee, with a correction, as well as a report from the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17635	The draft law, which is now clearly a alignment with the changes made several months ago in the Law on Income Tax and other accompanying laws that regulate not only tax payments, but regulate what is the basis for taxes and contributions. Article 2 The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance refers to Article 13 of the Law and defines, in practice, the basis for calculating the amount of the contribution, and thus also for paying the contributions. The proposal for this law adds a new position 2, which stipulates that the basis of the contribution for employees and employers and premiums for voluntary supplementary pension insurance paid by the employer for employees - insurance is included in voluntary insurance, in accordance with the law governing voluntary pension insurance, above the amount of 3,000 dinars per month. Based on this amount, there is a link to the Law on Income Taxes of Citizens, as there is a tax exemption to the amount of 3,000 dinars. What is our observation, regardless of the text of the amendment that Mrs Pop-Lazic has submitted for this amendment in Article 13? It is obvious that in Serbia, the mandatory pension-inhabitation system is experiencing an increasing erosion every day, for the simple reason that it is still not abandoned in the mandatory pension-inhabitation system by the Central European concept, where those who work provide contributions for those who use pension-inhabitation rights. All changes to the pension-inhabited insurance rules so far, regardless of the category of insurance, were aimed at introducing some order in paying contributions to increase the income side of pension-inhabited funds and were aimed at reducing pension-inhabited rights in the field. In this regard, at the time of Gordana Matkovic, a new Pension-Invalid Insurance Act was passed, with a new pension accounting system, and at the European Investment Bank's order there was a slower harmonisation, i.e. the miscoordination of pensions as an eminent social giving. As a consequence of all this, we have no further balanced revenue and expenditure from our funds, so the states in compulsory pension-inhabitation insurance as a guarantee, and by the Constitution a prescribed guarantee of the rights, inalienable rights that have been acquired, often must intervene from the budget. We now have serious objections from abroad, even if that's how we hear through finance managers, that all donations, donations, crossovers that go beyond the budget of the Republic of Serbia are cut out altogether. This situation inevitably indicates that a reform of pension-inhabited insurance is needed in this sense to introduce discipline in something called compulsory pension-inhabitation insurance, to stimulate voluntary pension-inhabitation insurance and to form a very significant, why not say, investment fund, if this is our path, our inevitableness. It's probably some combination between the American individualist concept and this social European concept, so you have to go to a mixed system, to allow each employee to take over and take care of their social security during and out of work, because they won't be able to accomplish their existence through ongoing work. In order to move forward, which is our inevitable path, there must be a reform of pension-inhabited insurance, funds of voluntary pension insurance must be strengthened. The kind of empowerment is that everything that is paid for voluntary retirement insurance is not subject to tax. We only have something today called voluntary retirement insurance. Several insurance companies in their offer have additional voluntary pension-inhabitation insurance, with prescribed tables, monthly premiums, investment time, and how much use of the right would be based on what period. Of course, all of this is related to the exercise of pension rights under mandatory pension-inhabitation insurance, when the conditions for payment are met on the basis of voluntary insurance with other insurance companies. Today you have a situation that if a man wants to be voluntarily retired and disabled, he has to do so through his employer. The employer concludes a contract with the insurance company, assumes the obligation to pay the premium and thus becomes a kind of transmission. Of course, it has a lot to do with the insurance company, depending on the number of insurance companies that are provided through it, because it goes through the payment of that contribution for voluntary pension-inhabitation insurance. However, we also have situations where individual employers commit their employees to voluntary pension-involvement insurance precisely because they have an adequate benefit from the insurance company, because it is likely to be closed by the insurance company holding funds with a bank, so that the bank requires that the employer, under other conditions, to be granted loans, loans, etc. Also, we have a category of employees who, even if they wanted to be voluntarily provided and to achieve tax exemption, so let it be according to these tax exemptions for the amount of premiums up to 3,000 dinars per month, they would not be able to exercise the right to tax exemption, and no insurance company would conclude a contract with them, because, practically, that employee twice pays a contribution; twice taxes are paid. So the problem is essential nature, he has to be dealt with in principle. What is offered in this bill is only one partial solution that regulates a quasisystem to develop voluntary pension-involvement insurance. For voluntary retirement insurance, it is important that the funds given on the basis of the premium for that insurance are always the property of the one on whose behalf they are paid. It's always private property. It's always a dedicated, as I would say, savings and helmet insurance at the same time. These investment funds are very important. They're the best at taking down interest rates at banks. They guarantee the stability of the domestic currency, because this insurance company is not quite the same when it comes to the obligation to start paying off by the parties of certain insurance companies who have come into a position to use rights, whether inflation will be 3% or 33%; whether they will, in the meantime, earn on the basis of collected premiums in order to be able to meet their obligation to those who have voluntarily secured themselves. In that sense, this Article 2 should be interpreted. Bills of law, where the employer's potential is again, and there's no individual anywhere. The same right, however, conditionally said, this member defines what the basis for paying the contribution is, not tax-related, the same logic must be applied to each employee who wants to secure himself without doing so through his employer. There's no such thing, there's no such thing as a possibility. It's illogical, if it's always the private assets of that person who voluntarily retired-involved, why wouldn't it be the same situation if he were to pay himself. This seems quite futuristic if we look at what our current situation is, where 99.9% of all pension-inhabited insurance is covered by compulsory insurance, which is both-headed, employee and employer burden, where there is also a modality of dedicated use, even these funds. There is even a variant that, even with mandatory pension-involvement insurance, what is paid on the burden of earning an employee in the fund is led as his personal investment and his personal property, and what goes through the employer as a mandatory source of funds for social behavior and regulation of social relations between employees and users of the right. So there are modals, you just need to sit down, figure out the system. Of course, first of all, the system of reviving our economy. If the economy is revived, if more people are employed, then the funding of compulsory insurance is stabilised, the organisation of compulsory insurance. Unfortunately, we have a completely opposite tendency. We have a tendency that our companies are shutting down, that the economic activity of all measures is subdued, I must say, by all the measures that this and that of the previous government are being taken; this and that of the previous ones can lead a dead race that is burning by the results and by the definition. Those who propose laws say what their system of values is. This is a bad system of values. In order not to have great dilemmas, adoption or failure to adopt this amendment cannot significantly correct the situation, because here it is necessary to change the system from the foundation. To change that system from the ground up there is no mood in this DOS government, narrow or wider, it doesn't matter. Believe me, I think the last train was long gone, and we had to start developing this, to ensure stability. These solutions don't fix anything, they don't even make it easier for the employer, so I have to tell you, it doesn't make it easier for the employer. This law, which is on the agenda, regarding the contribution to compulsory insurance, is almost the law of the set of laws that regulate tax policy when it comes to labour and labour-based obligations and the employer and his obligations. Take a more serious change. What you're doing is partial and it doesn't bring results.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17636	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The government and the Finance Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Finance Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17637	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we believe that the previous solution that regulated this matter was better than proposed. Perhaps it was only necessary to complete that Article 14 of the basic law, not to change Article 14 in one of these ways. According to the proposed solution in Article 3 relating to Article 14 of the basic law, the basis of our workers working abroad is regulated. So, if it's our company, it's going to be a company, etc. make some arrangements with some foreign partner, contracts some kind of business, with mechanisms, with people, these works start, how do you pay contributions to such workers? The old Article 14 reads: "The basis of contributions for posted workers, if they are not necessarily secured under the regulations of the country to which they are addressed or if the international contract is not otherwise defined, and for employers, is the amount of earnings that these workers earn during work abroad. "So, one very correct member: how much the worker has been paid, it will be his basis and in this way he is exercising his rights in relation to health insurance. However, the member has been proposed to be deleted. Perhaps it should have only been completed by this position of 2nd new Article 14, which is proposed, that the basis of the contribution set out in Article 37 of this Law cannot be lower than the double minimum monthly basis of the contribution provided for in Article 37 of this Act. So that would be one correct addition of this Article 14 and we wouldn't have any objections to it. However, as the government of the Republic of Serbia has suggested, the position of 1st new member 14 leaves the possibility that someone can in a certain way abuse this law, and most of all at the expense of workers who would be sent to the work abroad. The proposed Article 14 states: "The basis of contributions for posted workers, if they are not necessarily secured under the rules of the State to which they are addressed or if the international contract is not otherwise defined, as well as for employers, is the amount of earnings which, in accordance with the law, the general act and the contract of employment, would be achieved in the Republic in the same or similar jobs. "There is a problem with regulation of this matter, because it is quite certain that workers who are sent to work in other countries, abroad, and if they are not secured in accordance with the regulations of that state or in accordance with some international contract, will receive a multiple salary while they are posted abroad, rather than working in the country. In this way these workers are damaged for the benefit of the employer, regardless of who he is, whether it's a public enterprise, a social enterprise, or maybe it's a private company, because the worker will be paid smaller contributions than it is paid for. There's a problem. Why allow such a new member of the law to earn an employer at the expense of his employee? Why put this employer in a more favourable position than other employers who do not refer their workers to work abroad and who earn their profits here in the country? Why? Why are we creating unfair conditions, why are we creating privileged companies? Who's gonna benefit from that? Except an employer, no one else. So neither the state nor the worker, nor the budget, nor the healthcare workers, exclusively the employer who made some kind of a deal. The question now arises as to the motives of one such procedure of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the real proposer Mladjan Dinkic. Is this member being extorted under the pressure of a lobby or is the minister himself involved in such a lobby? All that you have done so far, whatever legislation has been passed in relation to fiscal duties, whether it is health insurance contributions, whether it is VAT, whether it is income tax, whether it is taxes, customs duties, has always been the proposal to cover as many ways as possible how it will fill the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Even when it comes to services, such as the supply of electricity, such as the provision of oil derivatives etc., it has always gone in the direction that where the state is a majority owner there is a monopoly and that the monopoly is used to generate some income to the state, or to fill the budget of the Republic of Serbia. That's how it's done so far. You just haven't introduced the sun and air tax yet. Even on water you've introduced, now you're paying for water, the most common one, from the tap, the value added tax; the rest are just the sun and the air, and that's the question when someone's going to think about it. And all of a sudden, one of these state-wide layoffs from some fiscal profit. To make things worse, you can't see who's benefiting from it in the country. Does any state authority benefit from the budget of the Republic of Serbia? There isn't. The employer has the sole benefit. Who is this employer? What are the motives for making a tax relief in this way when citizens do not benefit from it? I understand when tax breaks are made, there's a tax code being made, it's being exaggerated, it's not supposed to be that much money in the budget, and then we go down a little bit, we make it a little easier, we spread some untaxed goods, service types, etc., we cut taxes and customs rates, etc. That's what I get. That's what's good for. They have citizens first, and I guess it's the goal of every government and this National Assembly to work in the interest of the citizens. But now this is a tax relief – it does no benefit anyone but individuals called employers. But not all of them, because if they were all even and that would be some benefit to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, they would probably pay them more. No, there's only one small number of people that can count on their fingers right now. How long will this government come from that position and make concessions to such lobbys? Because basically, all of this bad thing that's been going on since the 1990s is the result of the work of these lobbies, especially since October 5th, especially since they funded the arrival of individual parties to power, so some parties seem to have an obligation to repay them in one of these ways, but this way is not good for the citizens. It's only good for them. Take care of that when you vote on this amendment in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17638	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The government of the Republic of Serbia has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 4a be added after Article 4. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 5th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17639	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the basic question today for MPs in the National Assembly is who to the doctor of legal sciences Vojislav Kostunica, the president of the Serbian government, is to sign such arguments on amendments submitted by MPs, such as this I hold in my hand. That someone who did this, whether it's the Secretary of Government Dejan Mihajlov or the Republic Secretary of the Legislative Secretariat, that Balinovac, would have to be held accountable, because the Prime Minister is under legal nebulosis, unfounded by any law. You're really going to have to deal with this, because if the Prime Minister is following this session, although I don't believe it, 10.30 might be following, he'd have to know he's dealing with bad people, professionally, in his environment, and that what he signed is legally unsustainable, and I'm going to read you what it's all about. So, Vojislav Kostunica was framed because I do not believe that he, as a doctor of legal science, would agree to sign this, to agree with the opinion that the amendment I submitted to Article 5, i.e. the basic text of Article 27, the amendment submitted by Mr Momir Markovic to Article 17. The bill, an amendment submitted by lawyer Milan Stevovic, tells Kostunica that his amendment is not legally possible. Otherwise, Mr. Stevovic is the president of Pozega municipality and is therefore justified today to stop him from coming here, but he would probably be a lawyer too. And, one of the best criminals in the field of legal science, lawyer Bozidar Koprivica, Kostunica also writes that his amendment is not legally possible. My amendment refers to Article 5. The bill, which amends Article 27 of the basic law, to income from agriculture and to the intensity of the Serbian Radical Party, to protect farmers from this behaviour and the relationship that the ruling set against them, in every respect, through all legislative proposals. In an explanation set up by the Prime Minister and signed by him, there is only one thing that is true, which is that the income tax has been lifted from agriculture, which is not a novelty, since it was reduced in previous DOS times. However, he forgot to say the one who wrote and said that my amendment is not legally possible, and it is not possible because the amendment requires that the new position you propose be deleted, which does not agree with the SRS, which says: "If, in accordance with the law governing the income tax of citizens, for a certain period, it does not determine and does not pay the income tax on income from agriculture and forestry on cadastrian income, the basis of the contribution for that period is the lowest monthly basis of the contribution from Article 38 of this Law. "Article 38 of this law defines which is the lowest basis and does not agree with the SRS, because it says that the lowest base of 40% of the average monthly earnings in the Republic was paid in the fourth quarter of the previous year, according to published data by the Republic's statistical authority. "The amount of the lowest monthly base laid down in Article 1 each year is announced by the finance minister," another scandal to be done by the minister, "and it serves to calculate and pay contributions starting on January 1st of the year for which contributions are determined and paid. "First, what is legally disputed, because if the proposer is an amendment to this law, and I have to remind the whole public, although farmers feel very good about their hump, it is mandatory and no one can, all SRS MPs know it, because they are constantly in contact with the peasants, no farmer can verify the health book, even though he has paid social security neatly, if this is not imposed on pensioners. Why don't we agree on this? Because in Article 38, therefore, nothing is legally disputed, because the promoter adds this second position that I have read in this basic text of the law; therefore, if this is legally controversial – to delete and to remain as it was before, then the basic law that you are changing is controversial. You jump into your own mouth and you force the Prime Minister to sign these nebulous arguments and texts. What is controversial about these 40% of the lowest base established by the Republic Statistics Office? There's been a lot of controversy. The average that is determined is one that does not correspond to the real state as it is, within the movement of prices and living standards and profits. And it is disputed that many agricultural producers do not understand why they are forced into compulsory retirement insurance, why this foundation of Article 38, and now related to Article 27, is determined in this way, when it is considered that, in addition to that mandatory retirement insurance... And otherwise, in order to carry out an overture of health books, they must have registered their registered household, and the process is largely done by villages in Serbia, by households. But the problem is that such a base of 40% is high when it comes to the standard of agricultural producers, because of the overall economic policy and because they, if they are not registered as a farm household, the land, except that they cannot carry out an over-the-counter health certificate, cannot get subsidies, cannot at privileged prices get oil, which they otherwise have a hard time getting, and those who have a right to do so cannot exercise any rights. On the other hand, they pay, although they are exempt from the income tax from agriculture, value added tax for their agricultural products; they have enormously high costs compared to what they can now produce. They face the fact that unfair competition is present absolutely in all areas of agriculture on our market, with the fact that the state, by the authorities of local self-government, through the Republic government, does not provide enough subsidies to produce certain strategic branches of agriculture. How can you now commit agricultural producers in this way and tell them that it's not so bad and that you take this base of 40% of the average income in the Republic? Indeed, the question is, it is mandatory, how much can a Serbian peasant produce in these conditions today? Imagine what other contradiction there is in this explanation that amendments are not legally possible, in our intention to protect agricultural producers, only present in the amendments of these two lawyers, Stevovic and Koprivica. They went a step further, so, continuing to intervene with the amendments to this bill, they wanted criminal provisions for taxpayers who are not sufficient to pay power, unable to settle their tax obligations, in time to isolate, through these minimum criminal provisions, which are appropriate to our standard and the situation in which our citizens, from those who do not at all comply with their tax obligations. They made it clear in the first and second positions of differentiation and said that the fine ranged from five to 150,000 dinars, or 2,500 to 50,000 dinars, if tax payments were not made within the prescribed deadline, and you replied, or the Prime Minister said that the amendment was not legally possible either. This is really one of the roughest games not only with farmers, which is referred to by Article 27, which I have submitted to the amendment, but with all the categories of the population in our society. Such a bill, as Mr. Zoran Krasic said, has no good intentions, because it is not seen at all in this bill, but it is an obvious intention that Serbian citizens, both farmers, through this Article 27, and all others, are brought into an even worse, more difficult position, not only in socio-economic terms, but now they are; and whether below it can be asked yourself, I think not, because misery has knocked almost on everyone's door in Serbia and this situation is simply unsustainable.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17640	The word is made by MP Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17641	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 5 and the amendment submitted by the Serbian Radical Party to delete this position 2 and the government's response to the amendment clearly states what the attitude of the Serbian Government is when it comes to the bill and what it is basic and what every law should aim, therefore, to establish some justice, balance, to have citizens in the same or approximately the same position, with all rights and obligations. As regards the commitments made by agricultural producers, i.e. farmers should pay for social insurance, citing this lowest rate, which is 40% of the average personal income in the last quarter of the previous year is embarrassing, given the state of the village and the peasants, their economic powers to carry out much less obligations, let alone obligations on this basis. I will make one example or 150,000 examples of peasants who receive these humiliating pensions from 1,800 to 2,500 dinars, with a delay of two years ago. The explanation of the previous and this government was that the Pension Insurance Fund had no funds and that it could not be settled regularly, let alone that these pensions were even decent for these people, who spent their working lives on heavy and heavy jobs in the fields, in the buildings, in the stables, to spend their age as well as they deserved. They created and built this country, but unfortunately, the state or government, the government that represents the state, and the people don't want to see it. As a rule, out of the 150,000, one is the right to receive pensions, while the other member of the old household does not have that pension, but therefore has the solution to pay the country's taxes annually, so far it has been, from 12,000 to 15,000 for social security. I had a dozen of these examples in the King, so that those people who are over 70 years old with that solution come up and ask what to do. They don't have any chance of avoiding that obligation, and they don't have a chance to verify the health book, or to show up at the doctor's, because they won't accept it there. If the state of Serbia provides 50% of the pension funds through the budget, does the state not have the power and the possibility to invest part of the budget in the pension fund of peasants and that they receive regular pensions, not to be imposed on them with such a proposal by Article 5, and to impose on them, in fact, what little they receive, and pensions back in two years from 1,800 to 2,500 dinars, it cannot cover these social security obligations either? However, it is shameful to suggest such an explanation given by the government of the Republic of Serbia. Is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the competent ministry even aware of the situation in which the village is located, peasants, and I am not talking about a category that is in such a status that is no longer able to process the country, grow cattle, but there is no way to spend those ageing days decently. This is the attitude of the state and the government of the Republic of Serbia towards more than 150,000 pensioners and peasants in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17642	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The government and the Finance Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17643	Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin to talk about this amendment and this law, I would like to remind my colleagues who were not at the end of this session last night, because there were really few MPs present and when one of the colleagues put it as an objection to the Rules of Procedure, then the President of the Assembly said, yes, it is true that the MPs are not in the room, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because there are many more MPs in the Hall than there should be. I'm simply repeating this because I couldn't believe in my own ears that the President of Parliament said that last night. But what's there is, the Rules of Procedure is who he is. Of course, we Serbian radicals don't mind doing the parliamentary work exactly as Serbian citizens expect us to do. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance is one of the proposals, as set out in the reasoning given under further activities in implementing fiscal reform, and in line with the economic and social policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, we Serbian radicals have our stand and we keep our stance on the devastating economic and social policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on a regular basis. After all, Serbian citizens know best, they know much better than we do, because we MPs still live better than the citizens of Serbia we represent here. The bill (a point that speaks about the effects of the proposed measures) says that this law is expected to have positive effects on the incomes of compulsory social security organisations, as well as on the economy. That may have been the proposal's wish, but what was proposed in this law will neither have these effects nor is it good for the citizens, and you have heard from colleagues who have spoken about previous amendments specifically to farmers, and this is indeed a problem that the Serbian government would have to take into account. But, in general, the concept of this law is not good, we said, although there was little time when we spoke in principle, because this was one of the 12 laws of the Mladjan Dinkic package, that the criminal policy provided for in this law was very bountiful, the law does not distinguish between taxpayers who do not fulfil their obligations at all and do not provide tax returns from those who do not pay taxes because of the current situation. This creates truly an additional dissatisfaction among tax bonds and among citizens in general, and the government acts as if that is its goal. Every normal government makes moves that the citizens will be satisfied with, and this government, the current government of the Republic of Serbia, as if consciously doing everything possible to increase the dissatisfaction of Serbian citizens. These effects provided for by the government in this law are not possible, primarily because of Article 2, on which we also had an amendment, where a basis for voluntary pension insurance of 3,000 dinars is provided. Of course, our proposal to be 5,000 dinars was not accepted, because these funds are returning to the economy and in this way this law would have some effect. Why is it that the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party, when they are truly meaningful, remain unclear, but we will understand in a month or two when changes and additions of this law are made; here I call you to remember this, you will see that it will be proposed in the new law. Yesterday, someone was saying that government representatives and the assembly majority were praised by a large number of laws passed in this parliament. It would be good indeed in these praises to make one analysis, to say how many new laws were passed, complete laws, and how much time we spent here discussing the sixth, seventh, twelfth times of amendments and additions of some laws. This is about expertise, quality and government intentions. You know, we know, at least we lawyers know that the law is living matter and that the laws are subject to change, that they should be changed whenever it is observed that something has been left out in the law that we meet in the application of the law, however, a serious promoter has to take care to make a law that will last at least as long as the term of office of the promoter. We've never passed such a law here before. No law is such that has already been changed, that it can count on how long the promoter will last and the law. It is unserious and it is irresponsible to the citizens, according to this parliament. You know, if we discuss amendments to one law 10 times, it costs the citizens of Serbia. You often talk about how we who speak here spend money on Serbian citizens, but I say that is not the case. We work here, but the one who sets us up with the shrimp laws, bad translations, that's the one who's responsible for the time spent. I never say "lost time," as you say, because, of course, our time isn't lost, it's just wasted. In this case and in cases like this, unfortunately, wasted. Article 8, which I tabled an amendment on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, refers to Article 39 of the basic law, and that Article 39 reads: "When the period for which the contribution is calculated is shorter than a month and the conditions for applying the minimum monthly basis of the contribution are met, the calculation of the contribution shall be made at a proportionate amount of the minimum monthly basis of the contribution. "A new position is added here: "When an employee works with reduced working hours based on disability in accordance with the solution of a competent organisation for compulsory pension and disability insurance, and the conditions for applying the minimum monthly basis of the contribution based on earnings and other income provided for in Article 13 of this Act have been met, the calculation of the contribution shall be made to a proportionate amount of the minimum monthly basis of the contribution. "In the last position, you have a proposal for an amendment: "The proportional amount of the minimum monthly basis of the contribution is determined by the minimum monthly basis of the contribution relative to the number of days, i.e. the number of hours of work in the month for which there is an obligation to calculate the contribution. "As this member refers to disabled people, people who work part-time for disability, most often it is that these people with disabilities have become the employer they probably work with today, because it is very difficult for someone who has become disabled in another employer to get a job with a new employer. I would even say that, given our legislation, it's practically impossible. And that's what we talked about when it was on the agenda. We Serbian radicals are always trying and trying to protect these social and economic most vulnerable layers of the population with our proposals. If someone has become disabled with an employer who is currently working, even with another employer, we believe that what we have proposed in the amendment to Article 8, which is: "When an employee with reduced working hours based on disability is in line with the solution of a competent organisation for compulsory pension and disability insurance, and the conditions for applying the minimum monthly base of income and other income from Article 13 of this Act are met, the calculation of the contribution shall be made to the minimum monthly basis of the contribution. "So, as a proposer, the government said: "a proportionate amount of the minimum monthly base of contribution", and our amendment is that there is no proportionate amount, but that it refers to the minimum monthly amount of the base of contribution. We really think that this is more humane, that it won't cost much to the employer, especially the state, and that the employer has to take care of the people who are employed and disabled, especially if the disabled have become the employer. When we talked about the Labour Act and some other laws, we talked about employers, the relationship between employers and employees, and we really can't expect the employer, if the law doesn't oblige him, to be human to a disabled person in his company. Of course, this does not apply absolutely to all employers, but we all know how tycoons behave, we know well that, for example, employees of the BK company at Karic do not receive a healthy and regular salary, and imagine what is the attitude towards people with disabilities. Such, unfortunately, have quite a number in Serbia. We, as a parliament, must teach the government to convince the government to make the government give us such proposals that the laws that are being passed in this parliament, besides having to take care of the budget, is fundamental to the government of Serbia, must also take care of the citizens of Serbia. They have to take care of all categories of citizens, and the disabled in one special and humane way, because as people we have to provide, first of all, and as a parliament anyway. Since there is no Minister Dinkic here again, with all due respect for fellow Members, they are not equal with the people's MPs, because they cannot answer our question, nor give any explanation. I guess I'm even convinced they're mostly sharing our opinions, but what they're going to do is they're here for another reason. That is why we continue to insist that when discussing the bill's proposals, especially when it comes to details, when we specifically propose certain amendments through amendments, that it is necessary, that we must insist, I expect from all of you, that there is a resolution minister sitting here. If there's a resolute minister, then we can really expect that when we explain to him some of our amendments... Because when we submit amendments, we really give very brief explanations, not because we're not going to write everything we would say here, but because it's simply impossible. Remember how this session is scheduled: three days before the start, 45 points of the agenda. Of course, it was impossible to pay more attention to our arguments in the explanation of the amendments, so we mainly wrote (it refers to all parliamentary groups that may have had amendments) very brief explanations, convinced that, when we talk about amendments, the minister will sit here and we will explain it to him. If the minister is aware that the amendment of Article 8 in the way we have proposed does not cost any state, it costs very little of the employer, and it makes a lot of people, which is a category of people with disabilities – it is probably a category of people who really need help, there is no need to feel sorry for them, but it does help them as much as it is in the power of Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Serbia – so, by accident, Minister Dinkic is there, I am convinced that the arguments I have made are correct and that, on behalf of the Government here, I accept the amendment. That is why I expect the MPs of the parliamentary majority to draw attention to the ministers that their survival is directly related to the position of this parliament, so it would be nice for them to respect it and at least listen to us and eventually accept what they think they can accept. (President: You're out of time. I'm done. In particular, this amendment nor the concept of something disrupts the bill, nor the concept of the fiscal policy of Mladjan Dinkic. Simple, one human gesture. I expect fellow MPs, in the absence of a minister, to accept this amendment in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17644	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17645	Dear People's MPs, the basic law, the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, was adopted in 2004 and published in "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" number 84. The criminal provisions proposed by this law are, as in many other laws proposed by Minister Dinkic, the dragon sentences for not fulfilling certain obligations to pay taxes and other obligations when it comes to the Ministry of Finance, and the tax police, we saw yesterday, considering here amendments to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration and the Administration, received such powers as to have her arrested and to impose prison sentences. In Article 17, this minimum sentence of 2,500 is replaced by 5,000 and applies to Article 73 of the basic law. This article was regulated that a fine of 5,000 to 250,000 dinars would punish an entrepreneur if he did not make payment of the contribution or payment of the contribution would not be effected within the prescribed time limit (Article 60(1)). The basic question arises – what is this range of fines, from 5,000 to 250,000 dinars, 50 times? What are the reasons and criteria for determining the level of punishment, will there be a fine of 5,000 or 250,000? Is that dependent on the tax police, the director of the tax administration, who is a member of the G17 party? I would like to know if there is a tax administration manager in Serbia if he is not a member of the G17 party. I don't think there are any. I know that in the King's three directors of the Tax Administration have been changed in the last year, they all had to be members of the G17 first. Dracon punishment is for the inability to execute, when it comes to the entrepreneur, but when we look at these other criminal provisions, how can the responsible person in the state authority be punished differently, that the sentence is ten times smaller than the person responsible in the legal person or when it comes to the entrepreneur? What are these criteria for determining punishment? We've got examples, I've got to call it again, entrepreneurs who haven't been able to... So, at some point, the state is not able to carry out any obligation, even though it has all its instruments in its hands, to carry out obligations towards pensioners, to health workers, to education, to deadlines and amounts that it is obliged to pay. These entrepreneurs have received solutions for the unfulfilled obligation to pay the 10,000-dollar VAT on fines at 125,000. What are the criteria for such a dragon punishment for the inability to execute in ten days? The complaint doesn't hold up the execution here. So, there's an automatic solution and the taxpayer's account is blocked and these funds are being downloaded. And the appeal itself, the whole appeal procedure and decision-making in the center of Kragujevac for a solution from the King is purely formality. With all these other penalties, when it comes to the collection of state revenues, it has gone to another extreme. The Serbian Radical Party and the SRS parliamentary group are for discipline when it comes to carrying out a commitment to the state, but there are objective reasons why something cannot be done within a certain time limit. There is a way to replace the delay, but not with the dragon penalty, possibly with interest, as it was before, when it comes to obligations for the state. The same example is the next article 18, as is Article 19.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17646	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Miloljub Albianic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17647	The replica to Mr. Cetrovic, who repeatedly mentioned G17 plus, without any need. What's very important is that you here, Mr. Cevrovic, are expressing disdain for the introduction of order, the disdain that those who break the rules must comply with the law. The basic question arises – who do you want to protect? Do not falsely protect the citizens, concentrate and tell anyone who violates the law here at the assembly speaker you want to protect. What is most important – what does order bring? It brings down the gray economy. Don't tell me there's a political party and someone in Serbia who doesn't advocate reducing the state's grey economy. Budgetary discipline was significantly achieved during the past and this year. Don't tell me you're in favour of budgetary indiscipline and that some can be privileged and others can pay taxes. We finally introduced a system that everyone has to pay taxes equally and that the law is the same for everyone. As for the company and the payment of commitments, you know that the government of the Republic of Serbia has passed the regulation on to those who have been able to pay a certain percentage to the wars to pay what they did not pay in the previous period. Whoever was irresponsible and violates that regulation, so what, he has to comply with legal solutions, is not possible to protect like that. I'm here for the Assembly Speaker and I said he's in the IRS, and I'm asking if that's how it is in some other department of the state administration, a test to see how much it's worth. Some members of the G17 plus came under the pressure of that test, and they've been replaced. The one who's the best should be elected to a designated executive post and I guess no one has anything to do with it. On the contrary, it is also good for the tax administration, it is good for the state of Serbia in general. Please, you don't have to go out without ever having to go out and, like, you decided today that at some point... (President: You're out of time. )......................................................................................................... You mention G17 plus to cause a replica or something. So, I don't need to be with you at such a low level as you want, because I belong to another image, the way you think and debate for a congregation speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17648	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by the MP Četrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17649	I'm reporting under Rule 104 or the entire Rules of Procedure. When I called G17 today and before, I called with the reasons and arguments I have. As far as the income management is concerned, I started working in 1974 at the Kingdom Municipality's Revenue Administration. I've worked for four years, and I kind of know what tax is, what payment is, how it's cut and how it's charged. You, with this introduction of order towards the citizens of Serbia, to kidnap them, when it comes to taxes, at all costs, and if it is a worker, a peasant. Did you introduce order when it comes to Karic, Kostic and others, G17, Labus, Dinkic, as finance minister and you as an entire parliamentary group? What did you do with Karic and ownership of the "Mobtel"? Where's the state, how much is the state's property, who are you waiting for to get rid of it? Are you waiting for the people to take the sticks and solve it? You're talking about equal taxation of Serbian citizens. How much does Karic pay to the state? What is its monthly salary – 250 - 300 000 euros. How much does he pay for social security contributions? But here you predicted a peasant to pay 40% of the average earnings for the last quarter of 2004. To kidnap the nursing homes, who must fight to the grave to survive, to process the land, to feed the cattle to survive. How can you not be ashamed? You speak of your order in the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17650	Replica, MP Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17651	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, therefore, when someone comes and doesn't know which member of the Rules of Procedure to call, it is clear evidence that the Rules of Procedure do not even have the right to report, because I have not in any way hurt the dignity of the Assembly or any provision of the Rules of Procedure. As for Bogoljub Karic, you know very well that Mr Dinkic, as finance minister, charged the extra profit to Mr Karic. There is an arbitration waiting in Zurich and I am not pleased that the state is more determined not to resolve the issue of "Mobtel" at this time, not to wait for the end of the arbitration in Zurich, if you ask me. But it would be better for you to take care of your committees in Serbia who either sell or buy them Karic, or what happens. That's what you take care of, about Obrenovac, Lazarjevac, the Sava Venc, and who knows how many municipal committees around Serbia, where you have problems, and whether this untouchable Serbian Radical Party is divided around the locale at all levels. As far as the term "kidnapping" is concerned, that term doesn't belong to a G17 plus. That term is yours, and it's yours. So, what you have, so to speak, taken away from the citizens of Serbia, we are today in a position to repay those old debts. Remember the old foreign savings, the loan for Serbia's rebirth and everything that was wrongly taken away from citizens during the previous period. Don't talk like that to someone who's trying to wrong from the previous period now, in a decent and worthy way, to correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17652	Natasa Jovanovic's MP, according to the amendment, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17653	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, it is the amendment of Mr. Momir Markovic, who also received an explanation from Vojislav Kostunica that the amendment is not legally possible, and he wants to introduce order through the amendment of members of this law and enable those who are taxpayers in Serbia under Dinkic and Labus' unscrupulous laws and bodies of the tax administration to begin with this one who thinks that Pogorec is the centre of the world, and is the main tax officer in the country, through these pompous representatives of the people who know nothing about how hungry people are and what misery they live in. This is like rain to you; I thought this man was gone, after those few replicas we had a few days ago, at least, on vacation. Or at least to go after Serbia, as I taught him, to visit the citizens and see how difficult they are to live. Or at least try to build a board of the organization that didn't pass the censorship in Kragujevac, but has 1.3% of voters. It doesn't matter at all, it's not worth commenting on, it's the most important thing that Mr Markovic and the Serbian Radical Party intend to do. Not that this amendment is legally possible, but rather the only rational approach, given that we are also aware, unlike the parliamentary majority, of the standard of our citizens, to accept this amendment. I call, if there is a reasonable part of that parliamentary majority, first of all, I think of those who are the headquarters of this gathering and who suffer this kind of behavior and the previous speaker and such a finance minister, these are the DSS MPs, to see what the amendment is about. Mr Markovic suggested that a fine of between five and 150 thousand dinars be fined for the offender's offence (meaning less than in the proposed text) if he did not make a payment of the contribution until the time of control of the competent authority, or in the second position, he requested that with a penalty of 2.5 to 50,000 dinars, the criminal penalty for the offence of the entrepreneur should not be paid within the prescribed time limit. This is indeed the only realistic approach when it comes to tax obligations defined by Article 73 of the basic text of the law, i.e. Article 17. By the end of the debate, there were two amendments to our respected colleagues of Serbian radicals, and in addition, according to the republican administrative fees, through the reduction of the proposed levels of taxis, as well as these criminal provisions, we want to integrate these members into the real situation in Serbia, which is an extremely difficult social and economic situation in which each taxpayer is located. It is the only way, and so is our great contribution as MPs and parties to help citizens, to somehow save them from this, in the right sense of the words, the terrors exercised by the legislative authority in such a way as to vote these laws, and then come under the influence of tax authorities that are ruthless and which are in the function of implementing one policy to peel the skin of citizens. It happens very often, such an example is also in the city where I come from, that taxpayers have to seek protection by launching criminal charges against tax authorities, the Republic of income administration, because of abuse of position. They can't stand the lawlessness that's being committed. Of course, they all raped themselves, because such a finance minister gave them such orders, and then, then, what is best for them and how to meet that standard and to put in the pockets of innocent citizens and those who suffer for what they do not have the opportunity to pay, because it is a very difficult economic situation in the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17654	Anyone else want a word? The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 18 of the amendment. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The National MP Milan Stevovic submitted to the 18th Amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Since we have completed a search of the Bill's proposal in particular, I conclude the search of the Bill's proposal in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 34th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure on the Republic of Republics ADMINATIVES (specificities) You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the Law by the MPs: Suzana Grubješić, Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasić, Natasa Jovanovic, Milovan Radovanović, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Momir Marković, Goran Cvetanović, Dragoljub Stamenković, Milorad Mirčić, Veroljub Arsic, Vojislav Milajić, Nemanja Sarović, Branislav Rankić, Milan Stevović, Zlatan Jovanovic, Vitomir Plužarić, Darko Glisić, Aleksandar Đorđević, Igor Bečić, Igor Vjeljinović, Miljko Četrović, Tomislav, Tomislav Šetrović, Tomislav Gović, Rodović, Radićaljić and Zivić. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Committee on European Integration and the Legislative Committee. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17655	Here is another draft law that affects the pockets of Serbian citizens – the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, i.e. its amendments and additions. In part of the reasoning of this law -- the assessment of the amount of financial resources needed to implement the laws, the Government said as a proposing: "In order to implement this law, it is not necessary to provide specific financial resources in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. "Of course not, but additional funding is needed to fill the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's not what the promoter said, but that's why we're gonna say it and explain it. I have proposed on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group to be a member of the 3rd. The amendments and additions to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes are deleted, and I will also say why. Because Article 3 speaks of Article 31 of the basic law. Article 31 of the basic law says that fines from 1,000 to 20,000 dinars are fined by the person responsible for the offence in the body referred to in Article 2 of this Act. It is now proposed that 20,000 be replaced by 50,000 dinars by the Republic government as the legislator of this law. Now I'm going to read to you why someone will eventually be punished by 50,000 dinars. Therefore, if it performs a business on the basis of a claim, i.e. a submission, without proof of payment of a fee within the meaning of Article 4 of this Act; if it does not indicate, in a solution or other correction, for which the tax is paid, that the fee is paid, the amount of the fee and the tariff number by which the tax is paid. Please, would anyone be normal, if one healthy mind could predict that a man is punished by a fine of 50,000 dinars because in a solution or another correction, for which the tax is paid, does not indicate that the tax is paid and the amount of tax paid and the tariff number by which it is paid, etc. This is amazing. Of course, administrative fees should be paid, must be moderated, must correspond to the economic and social status of most citizens in Serbia. Regardless of the need to fill the budget, the government of the Republic of Serbia must take care of it in some other way, and not just – when some money fails, we go to changes and additions to laws that are taken from citizens of Serbia. I don't know if you're aware that citizens can't take it anymore; as far as they're aware and want to meet their obligations to the state, citizens don't even have to pay an administrative fee. So you're bringing people to the point where they can't get the basic paperwork they need to get from the municipal or some other government body because they don't have enough money to pay the administrative fee. And as it is said here, a fine of 1,000 dinars to 50,000 dinars, as the government suggests, will also punish someone who does not properly cancel the tax mark. Does this sound normal to anyone, please? Someone who works for a salary of 20,000 dinars accidentally in the crowd does not cancel a single tax mark properly, he will fine the budget of the Republic of Serbia, or Mladjan Dinkic, to pay a fine of 50,000 dinars! Does anyone think this is normal? If there's someone who thinks so, should I give up the amendment immediately? The same punishment will also punish someone if they don't inform the obligor that it's an application, or a submission (but you have to come out here to say you think this is normal), required to pay a fee... And it didn't pass the test, that's the problem; let them test it afterwards, maybe it's something from him. If you do not inform the obligor that a request is made (don't disturb me, please), or a submission, it is required to pay the tax prescribed by the Tariff for the files and actions in a particular administrative action, i.e. administrative matters or fees, or not to inform the Tax Administration of the initiation of the compulsory payment procedure. So it is now important that a timely notice be made to the Tax Administration for forced payment and woe to those who have not accidentally paid an administrative fee. Taxes with hackers come in, they rob apartments, and yesterday we talked about it, they might as well kill, because it doesn't say anything that they can't, and they can do anything about forced collection. Furthermore, fines from 1,000 to 50,000 dinars will be fined who do not charge a fee for requests, submissions or other documents which, untaxed or under-taxed, arrive by mail from abroad before the delivery of the requested solution or other documents, i.e. before the notification to the obligor that the action has been carried out and who in the solution, corrects, document or written, issued without payment of a fee, does not indicate the purpose of issuing and on the basis of which a member of this law, or a tariff number, is exempt from payment of the fee. So, in addition to this abnormal increase in this maximum penalty for all violations from 20,000 to 50,000 dinars, we have again what is characteristic of all proposals made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this and the previous ones. So, the characteristic of all governments from 2000 to this is, when it comes to charging taxis, when it comes to criminal policies, to making an abnormal relationship, like in this case between 1,000 and 50,000 dinars. Every time we talk about it, I ask, and now I ask, who is it and what are the criteria, who's going to estimate that someone who hasn't properly annulled a tax mark pays 1,000 dinars and who's going to pay 50,000 dinars? Does this mean that there's a municipality in which someone who's happy to apply this law is in power, and the clerk on the counter is someone who has knowledge that he belongs to an opposition party, he's going to pay 50,000 dinars for not canceling the tax stamp, and the one who's from the same party, he's going to pay 1,000 dinars? In what way are these 1,000 and 50,000 dinars and all that stands between the criteria? So, at all this standardization of administrative fees, court fees, penalties in all laws is something that the SRS, our parliamentary group, cannot accept, and we talk about it regularly because we know that the application of this law is causing terrible problems on the ground and citizens who are personally experiencing it, and when they hear our explanation, they understand how such things can happen. In an explanation why it does not accept this amendment, the Government says: "The amendment is not accepted for the reason why an increase in the maximum amount to which fines can be imposed for breach of the provisions of the law governing the Republic's administrative fees in the post of compliance with the law governing the violations, as a system law in the area of violations. "This is a nice government lying. This has nothing to do with this, but when we talked about this law of violations and at all about all the laws individually, we always draw attention that the government has to start working seriously, that the government has to codify regulations, that a certain kind of punishment, taxi, etc. to classify everything in one law, that it cannot be passed through 500 laws and when it is necessary to cover its eyes, to fool citizens about why certain taxes are increasing, that it is then explained that because all possible taxes are collected in this law which are provided through various other laws, so they should now be united in this law. So, you can't fool us Serbian radicals, of course, the government can't cheat us, we follow everything that's going on. We do this job seriously, and we know what's contained in the Law of Infractions, we can compare it to this law. What the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing is not good for the citizens of Serbia, because it drags Serbia's citizens' hands in the pocket from day to day with a direct increase in taxis, an increase in fines, and in another way by daily price hikes, by taking down agricultural prices. Simply, the government of the Republic of Serbia, whether you like it or not, for those of you who support the government, is so bad that I really don't know how much more they have the nerve to represent themselves as a government, how much more they can say they rule Serbia, when they do nothing in the interests of Serbian citizens. Nothing, absolutely nothing. If one of the government's representatives were here, I'd like him to deny me, tell me - you're wrong, the government did it, that and that. The government of the Republic of Serbia has done absolutely nothing in the interest of Serbian citizens. You who think differently, come out, so tell us what this government has done, except every day it raises taxes, which each day increases taxes, which each day increases prices, which are played with Serbian citizens. In April, the minister exits and says there is no talk of an increase in electricity prices, the month comes and the electricity price rises. It comes out ten days ago and says there is no talk of an increase in fuel prices, the VAT should be reduced, the maximum that has been left in law as a possibility for the government to apply it, passed ten days and the fuel price has increased. Government representatives act as if they do not live in the Republic of Serbia, in which they exercise power, and in their statements, show their behaviour as if they do not know, whether they really do not know, what they say in the draft laws they propose. I'm even inclined to believe that, because the proposaler's representative here doesn't explain any bill, because of the package, as Mladjan Dinkic calls 12 laws that have nothing to do with each other, are from the same area, but there's no specific connection that we could come together to discuss, so he's talking about 12 laws for seven minutes and of course he probably doesn't even know what it says in these proposals. So it would be nice for him to be here to hear when we speak to him and when we suggest he adopt amendments to the Serbian Radical Party. I guess it is clear to all of us that we are really taking this job seriously and that we are really asking the government of the Republic of Serbia to accept our amendments with a valid explanation. Of course, since the government obviously won't, because the government has its own policy that MPs can't influence, it should and should be good for fellow MPs to make sure that the government doesn't vote blindly for every proposal that the government offers here. Because if you're serious about politics and you're going to do politics in the future, you're you, we're going to go among the citizens and explain why the fuel went up, why the price of the wheat fell, why the electricity went up, why the raspberries were cheap. That's what the citizens are asking us on the ground and they're going to ask you, and you don't have an answer because you blindly support everything the Government of the Republic of Serbia has to offer you. The government of the Republic of Serbia is acting so badly that it really doesn't deserve the support of this parliament anymore, but, you know, by that people -- it can do as it pleases, but it can't go as far as it pleases.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17656	Does any other parliamentary group want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17657	It is extremely good that, in meeting the new session of the National Assembly, where, among other things, the agenda point – the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2005, we have today on the agenda this draft law amending administrative fees. There are amazing things going on. Minister Mladjan Dinkic has been constantly boasting for months that budget revenues are rising enormously, exceeding all optimistic expectations, how he is praised by those from the West that he is a genius, and then, in this and such well-being, when money goes towards the budget, falls from the sky, the minister proposes a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Administrative Taxes and still proposes an increase in administrative fees. Why increase when the budget is full of money? I guess it would have been normal if he'd passed the test Mr. Albianic had just talked about, that taxi-based revenues would have been reduced. However, there is a counter-movement: revenues are increasing in the budget, let's also increase administrative fees. It's a definition. It's probably not the one who was filling out the test, it's the one who graded the test. In this euphoria, in this bill in two or three places, we have either a tax reduction or a tax waiver. That's exactly the situation with Article 5. Proposal for a law, as far as heading 6 is concerned. The Law on Administrative Taxes, which refers to the following: According to the existing decision in the Law, an administrative fee of 1,270 dinars is paid for the authorisation of the transport of dangerous substances other than explosive, in road and rail transport. So, whoever asks for approval to be able to transport in railway and road transport dangerous matter so far has had to pay this tax of 1,270 dinars, and now, when you pass this bill, he will no longer pay any tax, because that approval will get the malts for free. Just to remind you that it is the request of the transporter of dangerous substances and that requirement should be treated by the competent national authority. The tax has so far been necessary to record this request and process the case, but after this, I would not be surprised to see dangerous materials being transported in road and rail transport, and no one to submit, not even thinking about whether they should provide approval. It is the matter of another law, but now there is no obligation to pay a fee, and when there is no obligation to pay a fee, there is probably no obligation to provide that approval. Besides, what the approval will do, it's in the jurisdiction of another authority. Now we have two kinds of arguments here about this amendment. One explanation, since the error in the explanation of the amendments went a general explanation for all amendments – that the SRS does not accept the increase in taxis, is here where there is no increase in tax, they now say, make fun of it and say: it is not accepted because the argument does not respond. In the second explanation, they state that they are doing so at the request of the Ministry of Science, which also takes care of the environment. Like, they filed a request to free themselves from paying any fees when it comes to ecology. See how many different views there are on the same question. It's not the central issue here, it's the central issue here that's the attitude to environmentalism and commitment. Now to be in Mr. Albianic's terminology, this is a matter of order. How are you seducing order? This isn't the turn for lottery, it's how do you seduce order here? You are exempting from the obligation to pay a tax to apply for a transport authorisation, and you know how dangerous this activity is, and how much of the obligation of the state to keep it not only on record, but also on control, so that there are no incidents, and that again, we do not get the information on TV that a composition has broken over on that and that railway station, and that, dangerous matter, Belgrade is shaking because of the alleged danger of an explosion. At the time of Zoran Zivkovic, he comes out and says everyone will be replaced. If you go a little further, then you can see that neither the documentation nor what follows was in accordance with the law, nor in accordance with the order in which those in G17 plus are being advocated. There's no reason for this to get loose and out of the law. If we want to start talking, that tax of 1,270 dinars, mostly for legal persons doing this job, is not a big deal. However, here we have two completely separate processes: if a natural person appears, taxes are increased; if legal persons who perform certain specific actions occur, then we have the release, erasure of this position and these tariff items, as if it were all in our best order, as if there was no danger of transporting dangerous substances, as if we had developed a system of other measures that guarantee security. However, this is not exactly a matter of this bill, but there is no reason for this type of action to be free of the obligation to pay a fee. That's the central problem. This logic that led the government is still present in several tariff numbers where some issues concerning ideology arise. I believe that if no changes were to be made somewhere, then no changes were to be made in this area. It was supposed to stay, it had to stay, precisely because of this activity and the fact that it probably requested and subject to more rigorous control before obtaining approval. It is necessary to ensure a large number of consent: that fire protection is provided, an atest of means of transport, and that I do not further order what is required under the regulations on the transport of hazardous substances. There is probably a need for this fee to be in a significant amount. But you see, when you don't pass the test, then we have solutions like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17658	Anyone else by this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17659	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unlike the amendment explained by Mr Zoran Krasic, an amendment that I submitted to Article 6. The bill, relating to heading 8, is something quite new in the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, completely inappropriate. This will lead to an even greater protest and indignation of the citizens of Serbia, and even when I go to you, Members of Parliament, to explain what positions it is, you will see that this has to do with some of the laws that you have passed in the Assembly, and you can't even remember what the laws are, because from certain provisions of these laws it was drawn to introduce a whole new heading 8 and to delete it previously. How has this been in the Republic Administrative Tax Act so far? When it comes to heading 8, it was applied, and there was only one type of requirement, to request an analysis of the impact of action on the environment. So, to perform some work and what its impact on the environment, the administrative tax was 760 dinars. We can discuss it, and we talked about it when it was two years ago changing that fee, but now from the point of view of moving, as far as this relationship and informal devaluation of the dinars is concerned, is it much or little, but here it doesn't seem anymore. This is where that position is deleted. The heading 8 fully accepted a new character, including provisions from several laws that you have passed, against which was the Serbian Radical Party. It is about laws concerning environmental protection, the Energy Act, the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment, the Law on integrated prevention and control of environmental pollution, the reproductive material of forest trees, fruity material of fruit trees, vines and hops. So these are all the laws passed by this new government, or you as a majority in the assembly, on a proposal from the resolution ministers, since Vojislav Kostunica is prime minister. I am fully convinced that he and this argument as prime minister of the Republic government have signed and that he does not know what it is and how new divisions are established. Mladjan Dinkic knows that his party has absolutely no influence in the electoral body and that's what – give what you give, now to pick up what it can in one term. Kostunica, as a politician, which is now a game of some case and a prime minister, who has been present since the renewal of the multi-party on the political scene of Serbia, had to know, it's some elemental logic, that every new imposition, and here in the tariff system 8 is contained in many positions, and now I'm going to tell you more about it, is something that will automatically come up with a huge inconvenience with citizens. Instead of this quite simple requirement to analyse the impact of action on the environment, because of the adoption of all these laws, which we Serbian radicals have been against, as a reason for the adoption of a new tariff number 8, and this explanation includes now the prime minister, because he signed on behalf of the Government to disagree with this amendment, he suggests that new positions be introduced. He says, a request for a decision on the need to make an impact assessment, and it just says "impact assessment", so now you, if I hadn't explained this to you and you didn't have the law or you didn't know what it was about, you wouldn't know it was an environmental impact assessment; you could have thought that impact assessment was not what, the impact of various factors on what. No, it's not, it's an environmental impact assessment when it comes to new action. Now instead of those 760 dinars for that request should be given 1,000, but now he's called differently. It's like you're applying for legalisation under that forester's law, so you're starting to need a hundred euros, and then you get into the legalization process. It is the same for you when you come to the counter to assess the impact, and here it is unsaid, on the environment, what you need – first, these 1,000 dinars. It is further said, for a request to determine the scope and content of the impact assessment study, but the question is, what is the size of this study, whether there are two, three or 50 sides, this should be decided on your request by those of the authority for the collection of the Republic's administrative fee, so they say – another 1,000 dinars. So when you make a request to see what the scope of the study is, you come to apply for consent in that study, which is either good or not. If it has passed, then it is said: up to 100 meters square – 20,000 dinars. If someone wants to set up, say, a chicken farm, it's theoretically possible to do it a hundred square meters, to start something, take some livestock, something has to do, which is kind of a production, although I'm telling you all examples of what's going to happen in practice because this is just one in a row. Or, to install within its property, if there is space, some wastelander or plant production, means, because of various preparations, pesticides, here for the feeding of cattle or for various other protective elements that have to be involved, it has to carry out an impact assessment and study whether it fits into the environment, or the environment. It's impossible for someone to do that in an urban settlement, although there are cases like that. There is a part of the town in Kragujevac, which in the meantime has grown into a very nice settlement. It used to be the periphery. It was a rural area. Around them are all magnificent buildings, beautiful houses, decorated, and one man remains with his work, which he probably started 20 years ago, when there were no houses, and he grows goats. Someone has to assess whether what he's doing is devastating in the environment and the environment, and there are such cases in other cities, on the edge of the city. If it's up to 100 square meters, strictly according to this tariff number, it has to be measured, because if it crosses 100 square meters, and that's the range ten times, up to a thousand meters doesn't pay 20,000, but 39,000 dinars, and those 2,000 when it's filed, it means 41,000. If it goes a thousand square meters, it's 30 times 30, if it's some other farm with some other animals, if it's not chickens where it takes less space, if it's sheep, goats, it doesn't matter what, and you want to encourage people to open those farms and deal with that production, then the new one needs to pay 64,000 dinars, because it has to do the study again, establish a farm, and carry out an impact assessment on the environment. It is further said – the requirement to give consent to the study on the impact assessment of the situation found. It's with those who already have it the same way as this one example I've set, and there's someone who knows how many. They must carry out, for any production relating to environmental protection, or influence, the legalisation of that job under this new tariff number 8. They have to pay, if it's up to 100 meters square, 10,000 dinars; from 100 to 1,000 meters is ten times. It's like when Dinkic said -- those who are up to 45 will allegedly be able to take housing loans from September with 4.5% effective interest, and imagine, someone who turns 45 doesn't know which September and the next day is 45 years old and one day he can't apply and he has to pay the interest of 15% or 11%. It's the same case for you here -- there's 100 squares, he's got to pay twice as much. That's incredible logic. Where's Kostunica's logic to sign something like this and give him the opportunity to make a tariff number like this? If you want to legalize this activity, 100 to 1,000 square meters you have to pay 20,000 to carry out the impact assessment, and over 1,000 meters to 32,000. Now there's something new. This is probably in this modern European spirit of the integration process and everything else. It is not enough that there is demand and legalisation of the found state but appears – imagine how well it is arranged to rob people's pockets, to take so much money – to update the impact assessment study. So, there's an update on the study. It says – for a request to determine the scope and content of the impact assessment study. All these citizens listen and I guess they understand what it's all about, because when he comes to the counter, he has to pay for it. Indeed, it's already too late, but once you've decided to peel the skin off to the people like this, at least write down what influence it is, not to be so unspeaked, as it says there in some other laws. As long as it's a robbery, let it be fully defined, not as unspeakable. To take just that request, to update the study's assessment requires five thousand dinars, and then goes: 100 meters, 100 to 1,000, and over 1,000, and another five thousand, and then 10,000, and then 20,000. That's how you do it in heading eight. All of these thousands, which are multiplying depending on what you want to do and what work is at stake, and every productive activity, I took livestock production as an example, some new technology, it doesn't matter, production of anything that can have an impact on the environment requires this kind of assessment. Instead of that one single request of 760 dinars, this amount, with this many new divisions – if you can justify it and all that you don't say anything until the end, don't go out in a single replica, because what you would say after this. This is an obvious robbery of people. It is better that you did not write such an explanation and that the prime minister did not stand by that argument to say – because of these previous laws we must establish such a new heading number eight. Then you shouldn't have passed those previous laws. You've cost the state, you've exhausted us here to explain that these laws are devastating and in all these segments, when these laws were passed, they've produced a lot of trouble. If you've been written by those of the EU that you have to do this, with tariffs like this, to rob Serbian citizens, of one chicken, over one lamb and in a row. We saw customs tariffs yesterday. I tend to think that many of you can't justify it in front of themselves, let alone go into the people. But you're blind listeners. On Friday, you have scheduled a day for a vote, a green press and a tariff number eight and all new charges, and then you will see how the people will punish you for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17660	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17661	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. The amendment refers to Article 11 where, earlier, it was heading 15 – to review the technical documentation required to give consent to the assessment of the impact of projects on the environment, except for projects of natural good special value, so you have a tax code of one to five: 1) to 100 square meters - 19.120, ending at point 5), where over 1,000 meters of square, or 63.730 dinars. It is now defined to change heading 15 and read as follows: "For a solution which determines the fulfilment of the conditions for monitoring (emission measurement, emissions, noise measurement). "What is important, the argument is that the amendment is not accepted primarily because the member does not refer to the amount of tax, but is an extended subject of a tax liability. Either the tax rises, so the budget is filled, or the number of taxpayers, or the person who is obliged to pay the tax, or the diapazon of these taxpayers is increased, so the effect is exactly the same. If the government has stuck to the fact that only this is a reason not to accept the amendment, I do not think it is correct and it is not appropriate that the finance minister, Mr Dinkic, is not present at all to listen to the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party MPs and that, if he has counterarguments, he can explain his arguments. Therefore, the argument is that it is only "extended subject of a tax liability in relation to a solution which determines the fulfilment of the conditions for monitoring, as continuous control and monitoring of natural factors, i.e. the change in the state and characteristics of the environment (emission measurement, emissions, noise), brought by the Minister responsible for environmental protection tasks pursuant to Article 71(3). A law on environmental protection. In view of the fact that the requirements and other submissions for the actions of the Authority, in principle, the Republic's administrative fee is paid, that the type of submission for the actions of the body introduced after the adoption of the law governing the Republic's administrative fees, proposed extension of the subject-matter of the tax liability, is essentially subject to compliance with the subject-matter of the documents and actions carried out by the Authority in the implementation of that regulation in the field of environmental protection. The proposed amount of tax is defined in the light of the type and complexity of the specific business. "It is that the level of tax is inappropriate, given that citizens have come to the bottom of social sustainability, that it is indeed a major economic crisis. Instead of working on jobs to increase the employment of Serbian citizens, because one employed two Serbian citizens is without a job, instead of increasing the growth of economic production, reducing the deficit, it is only working to raise taxes and to establish an even bigger harak, already present, on the weak back of Serbian citizens. Obviously that's the problem. We, as MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, expected that indeed the legislative authority would be independent of the executive power and that the president of the Assembly, Mr Predrag Markovic, would not be so serviceable to the government of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, 45 draft laws were on the agenda. Although we had only three days to prepare the amendments, the president, without some strong explanation, put aside six draft laws, which are important, such as the proposal for a law on higher education; I guess higher education is less important than the fees that Serbian citizens should pay. I wouldn't talk too much about it. Finally, the law insists that it should take effect before the eighth day of its publication. It is always known that seven to eight days after the publication of the "officer" law enters into force. It is obviously in a hurry here, although the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes came into force on 13 April 2003. So, when it comes to hacks, then you need to hurry, no matter what you do from Monday to Friday. Yesterday, the President of the Assembly, Mr Predrag Markovic, made a completely inappropriate remark to the vice-president of the Republic Assembly that 20 MPs present at 20.00 hours is absolutely irrelevant, because according to the Rules of Procedure, one MP can be present in the O.R. and that it is enough to do so. So, the law on higher education for Predrag Markovic is not important, but when it comes to taxes, the harrassor for citizens of Serbia, and how important it is to be brought and not to wait eight days since the publication in "The Official Messenger" but to come into effect immediately after the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17662	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17663	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in a previous law in a member, you may have given in a little bit to public revenue, but now in the first next draft of the law, i.e. amendments and additions to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, there is a drastic increase in all kinds of tax obligations. Not only is there an increase, but a list of everything to be paid for is being expanded. What is the proposal that suggests that in one such way burden the citizens of Serbia, especially the economy, the branches of the economy that have been threatened by one such authority and one such fiscal giving since the DOS, and this new one, has been in power. Apparently, in some form of public income regulation, we are constantly discussing increasing various duties, so this law has been amended twice by this assembly, and now for the third time, and the subject is the subject of a republican administrative tax. Apparently, the argument is that the new legislation and new laws have been passed and that this is just adapting republican administrative fees to some new laws that have been passed. But then the question arises, let's just expand the list on which the tax is paid, but there is a drastic increase in tax liabilities. Article 14, which I submitted an amendment to on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, is closely related to heading 8 and refers to heading 19. So it's about environmental taxis. In heading 8 that tax was 760 dinars, and that tariff number is also changed, and the amount to be paid is deleted, although there is an opportunity in the Republic Administrative Tax Act itself to bring those taxes into line in terms of inflation, etc. So no one can claim that inflation has degraded those taxes, because the basic law provides for the possibility that the tax is to be aligned three months with the rise in prices to a little bit, etc. So that no longer applies to old taxes; old taxes, where amounts were much lower, you delete and introduce new taxes. For a request to decide on the need to make an impact assessment, someone now needs to give 1,000 dinars, just for the request. The request, when done, withdraws the release of a new request, which is for a request to determine the scope and content of the impact assessment study. That's already two thousand dinar taxes. And then, requests for consent to be given by the restoring ministry, which is on the impact assessment study: up to 100 meters square – 20,000 dinars, 100 to 1,000 m2 – 39,000 dinars and over 1,000 m2 – 64,000 dinars. Furthermore, for a request to give consent to a study on the impact assessment of the found state, means the condition that was before a business facility to be built there, to determine the difference of impact that will be prior to the construction and installation of the facility and later on. This again introduces fees for granting consent in the study on the impact assessment of the found state: up to 100 m2 – 10,000 dinars, 100 to 1,000 m2 – 20,000 dinars and over 1,000 m2 – 32,000 dinars. All that needs to be updated. To update the impact assessment study: for the requirement to determine the scope and content of the study on the impact assessment of 5,000 dinars; for the request for consent in the impact assessment study: up to 100 m2 – 5,000 dinars, over 100 to 1,000 m2 – 10,000 dinars and over 1,000 m2 – 20,000 dinars. So, in order for someone to just file requests to the department to do some studies on some impact assessment in the congested state, before the state was found, after the state of play, for some object that is 100 m2, and you have to agree that it's a small facility, because it's 10 times 10 useful surfaces, it needs to be set aside somewhere around 50,000 dinars. So, for 100 square meters, someone would do some impact analysis. And what income is it going to? The Resorb Ministry. But who should pay for it? I need someone who's willing to invest. We talk here all the time, at least the ruling majority is trying to come up with a story about how we create conditions for foreign investors to come to us, that these are the most favourable conditions in the world, in Europe; that this government is smart about this matter, so it brings in various tax and other benefits; so we even changed the Law on registration of business entities, and that's no longer done by commercial courts, now it's the agency, again, to speed up something, because this second thing is slow, ineffective, allowing the possibility of abuse, and all in order to attract new investors. Then we get to a republican administrative taxi, where a man should single out a small facility for 50,000 dinars. Not to mention that this applies, as my colleague Natasa Jovanovic has spoken, and to the facilities that are for the purpose of classical agricultural production, because you have to agree that even a mini farm – and now you are asking for agricultural households to register as entrepreneurs, the facility has to be registered in order to carry out that activity – in any case it has some environmental impact. The resolution ministry says – if you want to build a mini farm that has 100 m2 to allocate 50,000 dinars for taxes only. Now, God forbid someone comes to mind to expand that facility, they're gonna have to pay all of this over and add more to the review of the 30,000 dinar license, for a request to audit the license of 20,000 dinars. So, for a really small facility, someone only needs the name of a republican administrative cab to extract hundreds of thousands of dinars, namely, 1,000 dinars per square metre. Then there are again stories, both for this assembly speaker and for the means of public information, how this government creates conditions for foreign investment, for domestic investment, that the best government Serbia has ever had. In this case, I can agree that you are only the best in one piece, that no one has ever been able to skin Serbian citizens like these two governments since October 5th and so on. That's what you're really into. Now you're starting to introduce, though, not taxes, but air tax. So what many of you have failed before you have succeeded – to introduce a kind of public income to the use of air, and thus your promises of European integration, to create climates for foreign investments, are no less firm than air itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17664	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17665	In Article 15. The proposal for this law provides for an amendment to tariff number 20, which has so far been designed to pay an administrative fee for the application to extend the validity of an ecological licence of 12,750 dinars. By amending and supplementing this law, the tax increases to 30,000 dinars, so two and a half times the amount of taxis. This is a 250% increase and it is completely unclear why the government has resorted to such a large increase in administrative tax on the issue of environmental permits. In the light of the draft law, the Government did not mention at all such an enormous increase in administrative fees for the extension of ecological permits, but stated as a reason that this law on administrative fees with a group of laws, four laws that were passed in the field of environmental science and environmental protection, because there were major weather changes, and due to these termological changes, this Law on Administrative Taxes should be brought into line. However, the point is that there has been an increase in the level of administrative fees by 250%, and much less important is whether the termological harmonisation of this law on administrative fees with a group of laws, four laws passed last fall, from the environment. The proposed text of amendments to the Law on Administrative Taxes states: "for the request to extend the importance of an integrated authorisation on the request of an operator", an entirely confusing formulation that does not correspond to the spirit of our language, nor is it understandable for an ordinary citizen who would like to apply for an extension of an ecological licence from an area of engagement. Times are being introduced to explain that our legislation is bound to bring our rules of procedure in line with European Union rules and that this is mandatory under European Union recommendations in the field of the environment. It was also done in these laws that were passed last fall, these four laws. The government was in a dilemma whether to go with a general law on environmental protection, and to regulate sublaws after specific problems that arise in relation to environmental protection or to go with legislation to cover absolutely the entire area of environmental protection with four laws. It has been defined for this second model, but it is completely out of our legal system and the concept of our language is a one-off sentence such as – a requirement to extend the importance of an integrated licence to the operator's request. Few will be able to understand it and translate into Serbian what it really means. The bottom line is that we have orders from the European Union that, in certain economic sectors, we need environmental and environmental regulations to comply with EU regulations and to technically improve and enable our economy to be properly able, according to EU standards, to protect the environment, so it is, for example. for energy, the deadline for harmonisation of regulations and technical equipment for environmental protection by 2015, for the wood industry by 2012 etc. This does not mean that we should enter into our laws such raving expressions, which are absolutely not in the spirit of our language and which are extremely incomprehensible. In the end, in paragraph 2 of this heading, a fee of 20,000 dinars shall be paid for the application for the suspension of an integrated licence at the request of the operator. It's completely unclear why someone who doesn't want that permit to be valid for him would pay any tax. Simply, over time, it will cease to be valid on its own and there is absolutely no need to pay any tax, and at least 20,000 dinars. In general, the whole proposal for amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Taxes has enormously increased administrative fees and will be burdened anyway by thin budgets, both by citizens and by our economies.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17666	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has an MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17667	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. It is freely said that this law adorns all other laws that you have put on the agenda in recent months, which is the fact that they are essentially another challenge for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. With every new law, you introduce new restrictions, new restrictions, raise taxes, taxes, invent new charges. What characterizes this power is that you have done very little to make life easier for the citizens, you are already trying to first impose everything, taxes and prices of various products on the European level, and when you bring all citizens to the beggar stick and when Mladjan Dinkic assesses that he has finally emptied all the straws, then I expect you will begin to do something for the citizens of Serbia. An amendment that I have submitted to Article 17 on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group. The bill refers to heading 31, which provides for an increase in the Republic's administrative fee for requesting consent to the university's embodies, or college, more than double. An increase from 152,940 dinars to as much as 351,170 dinars has been foreseen. It is completely unclear when looking at these tariff numbers, first of all, why, if, as we had the case with the previous amendment, one tariff number is divided into several, or if for something previously covered by an administrative fee, it is now envisaged that, through several of the actions of certain bodies, it is practically multipled these fees and that three are paid instead of one. And that wasn't enough for you, but you're also the one that was. 760 dinars increased the first to be 1,000 now, the second to 1,000, and the third to 69,000. In this way, you've paid 760 dinars earlier to pay as much as 71,000 dinars, and we see a requirement to give consent to the university's embodies, or colleges, of 351.170 dinars. It would be good if the minister were to tell us, come on, let's all know that it's a lot of work, but where he finds exactly these 170 dinars, given the fact that this is not about inflation, and the previous law on amendments and additions to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes was brought not so long ago, in April 2003, about two years ago. It should be seen why the estimated amount for the republican administrative fees is now changing so drastically. I don't know if it's worth wasting words on reasons in the government's opinion why no amendments to the Serbian Radical Party are accepted. They're always almost completely pointless. It is now said that the amendment to Article 17 is not accepted for reasons why the level of the fee is proposed in view of the type and complexity of the jobs being carried out in relation to the submitted request for consent to the university's embodies, i.e. the university. Now I'm asking if, possibly, there has been an increase in the amount of work being done to give consent to the university's or university's elaborates? Of course, it's clear to everyone that nothing has changed here, but that the same size of business, the same kind of business has to be done as it was two years ago, and a year ago, and half a year ago. Then it's really hard to say why maltenes now increase two and a half times the amount of this republican administrative fee. You couldn't ignore this amendment to explain it like this. You should have found another explanation. That's hard, but, anyway, that's your problem. As regards the reasons that are firstly stated in the light of the law, it is necessary to assess the amount of financial resources needed to implement the laws and effects of the proposed measures that no specific financial resources need to be provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget for the implementation of this law. This could be controversial if the number of actions is now increasing, but of course you're looking at every possible way not to charge the budget. After all, we can understand that, but what is the problem, it will be necessary to provide much more resources in the pockets of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so that these increased, both by number and by species, and by God and by the amount, the Republic's administrative fees can be paid in the future. Furthermore, the effects of the proposed measures are said to suggest that the introduction of tax obligations on the basis of new files and actions for which administrative fees will be paid, i.e. the harmonisation of the tax liability by individual, concrete files and actions for which the tax is paid, should lead to an increase in budgetary revenues on this basis. I think it is clear to everyone that if administrative fees were previously paid to a certain number of files and actions, and if there are now double or triple increases in the number of files or actions for which it will be necessary to pay the Republic's administrative fee and if the current republican administrative fees are increased, some by 50, some by two, three or five times, I think it is clear to the small child that the adoption of such amendments to the Republic Administrative Tax Act will have to lead to a major increase in revenue in the budget based on the charging of these fees. As for the reasons for the adoption of this law by emergency procedure, I must say that this is another violation of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and that Predrag Markovic, that he has taken care of this Parliament, should have refused to put this law on the agenda in an emergency procedure, because I will remind you that Article 161, which regulates the adoption of the law under emergency procedure, says: "The law can, exceptionally, be passed by emergency procedure." What should be remarkable, therefore rarely, has become a rule in this House. Almost all laws are passed by emergency procedure. Then we should see what's so remarkable if we of the 50 laws of 45 or 47 are bringing in an emergency procedure. It is further said: "The urgent procedure can only pass a law that regulates issues and relations resulting from circumstances that could not be predicted, and the adoption of laws by emergency procedure could cause adverse consequences for people's lives and health, the country's safety and the work of organs and organisations. "It would really be good if someone from the parliamentary majority, when the minister of finance is not there, had anyone come out and explained what the adverse consequences for life, health, and especially for the safety of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia would have been if this law had not been passed in an emergency procedure, but in a regular assembly procedure, which would have left MPs for several days to get to know the law, to write perhaps even better amendments, which would have made the debate in this parliament even more substantive and, in the extreme line, which would have led to the adoption of much better laws. Of course, as a reason for the law being passed by an emergency procedure, the Proposer does not state any of what is provided for in Article 161. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly already say the law is proposed to be considered and adopted by emergency procedure in order to implement the proposed solutions as soon as possible. Such an argument should never come before the MPs in the National Assembly, because if such a concept is accepted, such an attitude, you can say about every law – that is, we want it to be applied as soon as possible. But we don't care, nor do we care about the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. If you wanted the law to be applied as soon as possible, you should have tried and prepared the bill a little sooner or in those weeks we spent without congregation meetings, because you were afraid to put the debate on the trust of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the agenda, so you said – we can't now, we have much smarter issues that are more important to the citizens of Serbia, which we have to discuss. Instead, for the next three weeks, there was no session, and then again, 45 laws to discuss here by emergency procedure, and you brought together principle debates about seven, eight or nine laws, to make these laws as little as possible. It is also proposed that this time not only past the Rules of Procedure, but also contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, this law enter into force the following day from the day of publication, and it is said "to ensure that the proposed solutions are applied as soon as possible and allow for the establishment of a tax liability for files and actions in accordance with the regulations adopted after the entry into force of the Republic Administrative Tax Act", and I would remind you that it was 30 April 2003. It is hard to say that someone with common sense can, after two and a half years of the law's entry into force, say that there are reasons why the law does not take effect regularly, on the eighth day of publication, but on the next day already. It is further said that this makes particular reasons for the entry into force of this law before the eighth day of publication, in accordance with Article 120. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I don't think these reasons you've given here are the reasons, but it's your desire for the law to come in as soon as possible, and your wish can't be a reason. Secondly, not only can this not be a valid reason, but it certainly cannot represent a particularly valid reason. For all of this, I urge you to accept this amendment in the voting day and make the lives of Serbian citizens at least a little more acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17668	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17669	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, how naively today those taxes on the mobile phone and carrying and possession of weapons, on which you built most of your campaign during that period. It is only when one bill is looked at, about amendments and additions to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, that you see what you are capable of and how you tax. I've submitted an amendment to Article 19, where I'm asking for article 19 to be deleted. Why? Article 19 provides for some changes to be made in point 1. The word "give" is replaced by "issue" after the word "waste" and the words "not dangerous". Otherwise, new three positions are added, and that's what's most important in these changes that need to provide an enormous budget charge. It is that the basic law provided for only one position under heading 41, that 38,240 dinars are charged for the authorisation of import, export and transit of waste as secondary raw materials. However, the view has now been amended and it is said "to issue a licence for import, export and transit of waste which is not as dangerous as secondary raw materials"; the same tax has been retained, but a new three bet is added, so it is dismembered: for the issue of an export licence and transit of dangerous waste of 60,000, for a solution that determines the fulfilment of the conditions for testing 5,000 and for a solution approving the transport of hazardous waste in the territory of the Republic of Serbia of 7,000 dinars. What's very interesting about this? What's interesting is that for the issue of an export licence and transit of that hazardous waste, you've predicted the highest tax of 60,000 dinars. If there are those who can export waste raw materials or dangerous waste from Serbia, they should be free of any fees. This is the best way to solve our environmental problems. But you've predicted exactly the biggest tax here. By doing so, you are likely to destimulate anyone who tries to export some of that waste. However, I must confess that I am most pleased when I read in these suggestions of yours the reasons for the passing or the reasoning that you give under the law. If you have a law in front of you, I mean these MPs who support the majority, look at the reasons for law-making, two of the exact same reasons in paragraphs 1 and 2. It is said that the basic reason for the adoption of this law consists in the need to bring the subject matter into line with the documents and actions that are as organisational new jobs, following the adoption of the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, is prescribed. It is said to be in line with the regulations adopted by the Republic, local self-government and autonomy. The second view says: "Also, the reason for the adoption of this law is also the need to bring the subject matter into line with the files and actions in implementing the rules adopted after the entry into force of the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. "It's exactly the same. And the basic reason is also the reason, with this other one down there referring to some alignment with the laws that have been passed. But this, worse, which brings the regulations of the Republic, the AP or the municipalities, the unit of local self-government, must be in agreement with this down here and this is completely unnecessary. If they are not in accordance with the laws set out below, which is, in fact, the Energy Act, on the other hand, what are the rules governing local self-government? Practically, every court should challenge their validity. Otherwise, these amendments in Article 19 are, as indicated here, under the influence of the Ministry of Science and the protection of the environment which has proposed that, among other things, they be brought into line with the rules that I have already stated. It is said, when these three new positions were inserted, that the headings 6, 11, 16 and 17. When erasing these tariff numbers, it tries to impose on MPs the illusion that one part of these tariff numbers is deleted, and some new ones are introduced, thus achieving a balance. But that's not true. Any of these pages to open, you'll see that two-thirds of new tariff numbers are being introduced, and one-third is practically deleted. This is not at all disputed, given that in the end it is said that the basic reason for this budgeting is, i.e. an increase in budget funds, so I wonder if the minister, when explaining these laws, may be telling us the truth when he says that a large surplus in the budget has been achieved in these past few months, which he calls a surplus, and you have heard that it is wrong to say the surplus before the end of the year. So, if there's this surplus in the budget, what's the rush, as Nemanja Sarovic said, to take effect the next day after the announcement in "The Official Messenger"? In those eight days, how long would it take for the procedure to pass, so much will lose money that would potentially enter the budget on behalf of the introduction of these new tariff numbers that would be taxed? So, I have submitted an amendment to article 19, which I request that this member be deleted. What was written earlier in Article 19, without these changes, is clear enough, perhaps unnecessary, but when it comes to what is dismembered, it is really unnecessary and will burden a large number of people who are practically engaged in import, transit, export or any other way by manipulating hazardous waste and those who are not considered dangerous waste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17670	Thank you, Mr. Rankic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The National MP Milan Stevović submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17671	Ladies and gentlemen, MP Rankic well explained his amendment and cited the basic reasons why the proposing, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia, came before the National Assembly with this proposal on amendments and additions to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. I will briefly explain it again in my own way and try to convince you that these amendments and additions to the law, as proposed here, should not be adopted. Namely, two are the basic characteristics of these additions to the law. The first is to increase existing fees, meaning existing jobs, and the second is to expand the number of jobs that will be charged in the Republic's administrative fees in the future. The explanation the promoter gave for going to these amendments and supplementing the law is a smurf and there is no essence. It has been formally given here, however, the real essence is gone. It states what is the basic reason, what is the second reason, etc. However, the only real reason is precisely what is stated at the end of the reasoning, where the effects of the proposed measures stand. So, it says here that the effects of the proposed measures are precisely to fill the budget, i.e. to raise as much funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's the basic reason why we're going to this step. It is necessary to raise as much funds as possible in the Republic of Serbia's budget and then look at the ways in which it can be done, and reach for this measure to increase taxes and expand the scope of future taxis. This is what is the essence of all of this, and exactly what Mr. Rankic said is illogically and unclearly why this measure is so urgently going into all of this, if we have, as the minister says, surplus budgets, or if we have extra funds in the budget compared to the expenditures that are present. As for my amendment, I have submitted an amendment to Article 21. I will try briefly to read this article and carry out an analysis of what is provided for in Article 21. Article 21 provides for a new tariff number 49a to be added after tariff number 49a, a new tariff number is to be introduced, meaning some new jobs to be taxed with these fees in the future. It says this: "For a solution which determines the fulfilment of veterinary-sanitary conditions in facilities for: 1) production and keeping of animals (farms)". So, in the future, farms will have to pay a Republic tax to issue this solution to meet the animal health conditions of 2,000 dinars. In order to resolve the fulfilment of animal health conditions in animal slaughter facilities, the processing, processing and storage of products of animal origin is a tax in case of industrial production, which means a larger volume, of 12 000 dinars. If it's craft production, it means a small volume of production, the tax is 6,000 dinars. Therefore, all butchers involved in this activity will have to pay a fee for issuing or obtaining a solution to meet the animal health conditions for facilities in which meat slaughter and processing is carried out in the amount of 6,000 dinars. The third point under this second point says – for facilities, i.e. rooms in the household tax is 2,000 dinars. This is not clear to me, and I would like to have the proposer to explain to us, when he has not already given a more precise interpretation in the explanation of the proposal, which means that for a solution to meet the animal health conditions in household facilities used for slaughtering and processing meat, a fee of 2,000 dinars is paid. I don't know if anyone uses these facilities in the household to do slaughters, meat processing and then go out to market with those products. Furthermore, point 3: 12,000 dinars are tax for a solution which determines the fulfilment of animal health conditions in animal sales facilities (stock markets, buying places). I wonder who's gonna pay this tax? The cattle markets are mainly organized at the village fairs. These are mostly or some areas that are socially owned or one of the locals simply gave their surface, meadow or pasture, to organize a cattle market at the village fair. Now he has to pay 12,000 dinars to even organize a cattle market in that place. I just don't know who's bound by this tax, it's nowhere to be explained. Is it the owner of that plot or is it a local community that organizes a fair, or cattle market? If he owns the plot, he probably has no idea that under these conditions his plot of concessions for the organization of cattle fairs, or cattle markets, and if he is a local community, I don't see where the local community (you know that the local communities themselves are in a difficult situation, that they simply don't have the means to pay this tax. The fifth point – for a solution which determines the fulfilment of the animal health conditions in the collection, storage and processing facilities and waste of animal origin, is the tax of 6,000 dinars. The sixth point, again the same solution – there are 12,000 dinars in animal corpse removal facilities. Again, I do not understand and yet there is no explanation of what it means – the harmless removal of the bodies of animal origin. Why would a man who does that, instead of rewarding him for what he's doing, have to pay a fee of 12,000 dinars? 7th point - 6,000 dinars are taxed in livestock food production facilities. So anyone who intends to produce livestock must pay a fee to get a solution to meet the animal health conditions of 6,000 dinars. Let me remind you, in addition to this fee, whoever tries to deal with this activity has to pay a dozen other taxis and other permits and solutions, so you'll probably turn a lot of people away from this tax and from trying or thinking about going into this kind of business. Article 2 of this Article states that: for a solution to determine the fulfilment of animal health care and veterinary activities in veterinary cells, veterinary clinics, veterinary clinics, reproductive centres and artificial insemination of taxes is 6,000 dinars. Gentlemen, this is a new member compared to the existing law. So these are some new jobs that, by the power vested in this law, will be charged with the proposed amounts that are given here. That's probably what most of them are going to adopt. I think this is too much and that these many people who are trying to do something in this area, and yet this applies to agriculture and to the area of agricultural production, will be deterred from trying to deal with this production.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17672	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's Messenger Lazar Cavic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17673	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, heading 51st point. 1) and 2) the number 2.290 is replaced by 9.890. After Article 2, a note is added, which reads: "A 50% of the corresponding fee per tariff number is paid for each of the following solutions". In this heading, the items ranged from 2.290 to 38,240. That range is large, let alone now increase by five times and the rest by 50%. This amendment proposes that this Article 22 of the Tax Act be deleted. The position of the Serbian Radical Party is well known. We are against these duties and against every grip from the citizens' pockets. We believe that this law is neither in time nor in space welcome. That is why all our amendments and all our efforts to delete these members are that this law should not be passed. How to come in this prosperity of yours, which affects each individual, if it has accumulated electricity, tolls, gasoline and oil, to buy from our peasants the lowest price of wheat since 2004. Ladies and gentlemen, are you aware that the peasant is no longer able to follow these duties? Are you aware that peasants have between 10,000 and 20,000 dinars of electricity? Are you aware that a peasant cannot pay a tax? Are you aware that on a hectare of wheat, when you sow a hectare of wheat can't be more income than 1,500 dinars? So the peasant can't follow this. If the euro has reached 85 dinars, if you are predicting inflation in a double-digit number, you are now focusing on our citizens to raise taxes, you have great wishes and ideas. You have failed any part of the agenda at this session to focus on the improvement of our citizens, or you do not want to cheer up our citizens. At each point, you ask the citizens for money, and the citizens don't have that money, you want the budget to be full. Minister Dinkic boasts that the budget is in surplus, and you have no money to pay for the last elementary disaster that hit southern Serbia. How do these people out there survive, they have income from that farm of theirs? I already told you that a peasant can't live on anything. NGOs are full of money, and they spit on us and on the state. The state and government must give their response to the citizens, as well as to the Serbian radicals as the largest opposition party. You don't have a very good reason to pass this law, because you say some new jobs have arrived. It's really hard to figure out how you synchronise it, and there's no money in the register. You can't raise economic levels at either the republic or the local or the province level on these charges. This level is rising by new jobs, new factories, new agricultural packages of goods for the world market, a new way of thinking that this country should be run by people who really want good for the citizens. Serbian radicals will prove it after the next election. You have explained the laws that will raise the level of sweetness; nothing will rise from the above-mentioned actions. This amendment has to do with agriculture and veterinary; well, that's not true, because it can't be this high in taxes, it can't change everything in your favor. They don't have our citizens' money to follow these charges. With a minimum fund of money, you expect someone to pay 9.899 dinars from 2.290 dinars, and that's almost five times higher, and you increase the remaining solutions by 50%. Apparently, the writings that follow this area in agriculture and veterinary are complex, and we live in the 21st century where the tracking system has been brought to perfection by electronic computers. All those solutions you're proposing are unrealistic, so this law isn't real either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17674	Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic, the Government and the Financial Committee, who did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17675	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS Parliament Club has tabled a series of amendments to the Amendments and Supplements Act on Republic Administrative Taxes. On behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Club, I have submitted an amendment to Article 25. The bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly, and we ask that this article be deleted. The explanation I gave is – the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is obviously in the function of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because extraordinary sessions are scheduled three days before the maintenance of the National MPs in this assembly to prevent normal work and to inform the public of Serbia through reason that in this case the Government of the Republic of Serbia is only determined to continue robbing Serbian citizens. Namely, the parent law provides for a significantly higher tax on these matters, contrary to the position of the Serbian Radical Party. We have given this in an explanation in the amendment to Article 25. A bill of this law. Article 25. This law refers to heading 62, which is amended and read – for the issue of import and export licences for endangered and protected species of wild flora and fauna for commercial purposes, a fee of 9,000 dinars is provided for; for the issue of import and export licences for endangered and protected species of wild flora and fauna for non-commercial purposes, a tax of 5,000 dinars is provided for. When the Government's argument to the National Assembly is read, paragraph 2, in the reasons for the adoption of this amendment and the addition of the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, it is said: "The reason for the adoption of this law is also the need to agree the subject of a tax liability with the files and actions in implementing the rules adopted after the entry into force of the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. "So this is another blow to the standard of Serbian citizens, and Serbian citizens live badly. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia doesn't think about that standard and the finance minister obviously doesn't care that the citizens of Serbia live, that they live badly, that they don't care about it; they impose an increase in administrative taxis and thus endangers the poor social situation of citizens in Serbia. The Serbian Radical Party believes that the existing and applicable law is a better solution and for this reason we have asked that all these members of this proposal of the law on the Republic's administrative fees be deleted. When we talk about what Mladjan Dinkic is doing to Serbian citizens, proof of his non-interest, both today and yesterday, and every day when we talk about these bill proposals that he is responsible for as finance minister, he is not present in this room because he does not care. You who represent the ruling coalition headed by the DSS in the voting day will likely vote on these amendments and additions to the law, which means that you will impose even greater pressure on Serbian citizens. What is particularly important, in this case, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes is the nature of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which does not care at all about its citizens. So to impose new taxes. And here is the reason why the Government did not accept the amendment to Article 25, which I filed on behalf of the SRS parliamentary club, says the following, and I will read to you only one part: "According to requests and other submissions for the work of the state authorities, the administrative tax is principally paid," means, it is reportedly about the principles, "and this is the type of submission for the work of the body, which is regulated after the adoption of the law governing the Republic's administrative fees, which is why it is necessary to agree the subject of a tax obligation with the type of jobs that are being carried out. "This proposal in Article 25(3), when we talk about heading 62, introduces a new tax and states in the last position, which is the essence of this proposal, that it is a tax for non-commercial purposes. So it is not true what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has given in an explanation that it is only changing without practically increasing taxes, because it is in this Article 25 that the taxes are increasing by 5,000 dinars. What my colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party said about this speaker when they spoke about amendments to this bill, we were saying that only the Serbian citizens, therefore, can hear the nature of the laws that you propose to this National Assembly and which you will probably bring in the day to vote. So, we will vote against this proposal for a law on the Republic's administrative fees, because we think it is another imposition on the low standard of Serbian citizens. Serbian citizens today have a hard time living and the government of the Republic of Serbia is obviously showing in this case that it does not care about the citizens of Serbia, which is the most basic task of a government, to take care of the standard of Serbian citizens. A bill like this shows all the nature of the DSS authorities and this ruling coalition in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17676	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17677	Dear People's MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 41 on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group that I propose to delete. Article 41 refers to heading 117. This tariff number regulates the issue of licences and solutions in the field of geology and mining and: 1) to issue research authorisation; so far, the Republic's administrative fee for issuing this authorisation has been 6,370 dinars, and it is proposed to be 30,000 dinars. Under point 2) for the extension of the investigation law was 3,820, and it was proposed to be 10,000 dinars; below 3) for the authorisation of the exploitation of mineral raw materials there were 38,240 dinars, and now it is proposed to be 60,000 dinars; under 4) a Republic tax of 3,820 dinars was introduced; below 5) a Republic tax of 38,240 dinars was now offered; under 6) for the implementation of the simplified mining project was 19,120 dinars, now 20,000; under 7) for the solution approving the use of a mining facility (used permit) was 25,490, and now 40,000 dinars and below 8) on the fulfilment of the conditions for the maintenance of gas and gas installations. Three reasons have been given in the light of the bill's proposal by the Ministry of Mines and Energy, since for certain members, i.e. an increase in the Republic's administrative fees, the Ministry of Capital Investments, the Ministry of Mines and Energy, the Ministry of Agriculture, forestry and water industry, the Ministry of Education and Sports, and for certain proposals for the introduction of republican administrative fees or the increase there is no proposal for a ministry. It's probably a proposal developed by the finance ministry with Minister Dinkic and his associates. When looking at the majority of proposed republican administrative fees, to introduce new or increase already existing, with some exceptions, it is about Republic taxes related to agricultural production, livestock production, industry, mining and energy. This is certainly the assistance of the government of the Republic of Serbia to produce in Serbia, with the increase of taxis and the introduction of new ones. When the individual fees are looked at, none of the provisions in the bill are how expensive the tax is to start, i.e. to get all these approvals, permits or solutions; or most likely to be cumulatively, individually for each part, as foreseen by the amendments of the law and the basic law, with changes already made three times since 2003, this is the fourth change and addition of this law, and not some tax of 20-30 000 dinars will be paid, but it will be a total tax of 100, 200 or 300,000 dinars. If there is a policy on municipal administrative fees, which are particularly passed on to municipalities on the proposal of local government leaders, then it can be understood what kind of situation citizens in the state of Serbia are in, especially those engaged in some business activity or are trying to start with some economic activity, whether it is agriculture, industry, crafts or services. We have an obvious example, if it comes to the publication of copies from books born, married, dead and other data from home records, that in all local self-governments, according to this Republic's tax, in most municipalities, they are even bigger than this Republic's, so it's about 550 dinars for confidence or a copy of a book born in the King's tax. If our entire process of acquiring certain rights, personal or family, is related to basic documentation and that each of our citizens should constantly prove or, at best, to achieve some right or extend some right to six months, because all these documents are valid for six months and then all over again and with all these taxes, with the standing in front of the halls of municipal administrations. There's nothing like a better situation when it comes to permits, solutions to demands before the republican administration... And you who now exercise power, and those who were before you, in the election campaigns, said that the state administration and the local administration would serve citizens. This service of citizens robs citizens, harasses them on counters and normally takes money. Now an obvious example, once again from the King, of how the local administration works, local government: a citizen who is threatened with the right to live normally in his family home in the center of the Kings, but thanks to the previous local government and the one that is now, so on. The democratic bloc, threatened to use its family home in the city centre from the urban mafia that has now begun to build in its neighborhood, has addressed the construction inspection at SO Kraljevo, or municipal administration, with a written request that the building inspector come to the scene and determines the facts of its threat and abuse committed by the business-building building. He was told to go to the counter, submit his request. He left, counting on it to pass the procedure, but on the counter they told him to pay 850 dinars to consider his request. Normally, he had no means and he didn't pay for it and that request was not taken into consideration. Looking at this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, this is just a further abduction from poor citizens of Serbia and kidnapping from those who are trying to deal with excessive conditions of economic activity without talking about those who are now trying to start some business activity in terms of craft, some production, agriculture and agriculture across various branches. This is the attitude of the government of the Republic of Serbia towards those who need to bring some production. It seems that this government does not care about production, it is only important to sow as much funds for the Republic of Serbia's budget, at all costs, without seeing what happens tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17678	Anyone else by this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Penezic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Penezic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17679	Ladies and gentlemen, I have here at least three truths before I begin to explain the amendments. One is that a lot of laws have been passed. God forbid we work more often at night, we would adopt everything, and probably with the aim of bringing our laws closer, I suppose, with the intention of entering that European Union. However, this reminds me of the packing of the summer dressing room for the summer, and the summer is far away. As far as the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party are concerned, it all says, approximately, not accepted, with a similar explanation, and I say that there is one truth in this law, that is another truth, and that is Article 2 which says that in Article 24, paragraph 1, the word "Yugoslavia" is replaced by the word "Serbia". That's right. Everything else can be shared with commentary, the same thing to say and be the same. Here's an example: while we're talking here and defending the amendments, some of the worse noises, talking, they don't care. I am very interested in this system of work, how it works, that is, it does not work at all, except that Serbian citizens see someone representing their interests. First they comment on the laws in general, then in particular, and then they explain the amendments, and then they vote. I believe most of you will forget what has been discussed, and they will forget my name, when the amendment is mentioned, they will not know who submitted it, and they will vote on that amendment, press the green button on my left, because they are told, so they have to do. Let me go back to the amendment now. I'll tell the third truth in the end. I was assigned to talk about heading 141, or amendment to Article 46. In the first version of the law were two items, and the main goal was to raise taxes, and those two items had a total of 760 figures. The current heading 141 has about four positions, with 10 of some sub-dots or sub-assemblies. It's so fragmented that you have even 11 numbers that are much larger. I'm just saying, the truth is, because of the citizens of Serbia, that the figure from 760 has increased to 74,000, which is almost 100 times more than it was, and it's probably been torn up to take as much as possible. The third truth that I wanted to say, and the real truth of all this is what is said in the effects of the proposed measures: "Introducing a tax liability based on new files and actions for which administrative fees will be paid, i.e. the harmonisation of the tax liability by certain, concrete files and actions for which the tax is paid, should lead to an increase in budget revenues on this basis. "That's the real truth. Now I ask you if this was the only and main goal – to charge as much as possible and to put as much into the budget as possible? I ask you once again, something more important – who to charge it from and how to from such a naked Serbia? If you impose huge taxes, people will shut down their businesses, which means workers will lose jobs. It pulls one another behind it, so Serbia goes to ruin, or lower class. It is best said by poet Momir Vojvodić, a long time ago in the Montenegrin congregation. I'll quote him, he says, "Where's the pocket in Recep, when there's no dress in it?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17680	Thank you, Mr. Penezie, especially thank you for your comparison with the beginning. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The National MP Rodoljub Gačević submitted to Article 47 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Rodoljub Gačević has the word. One announcement, meanwhile: a session of the Privatisation Committee will be held in the fourth floor hall, starting at 14.00 today.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17681	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, which is now on the agenda, or as it is shorted out in those receipts for the payment of the Republic's administrative fee - RAT, was adopted with the following objective: firstly, not only to fill the state register through the increase of these administrative fees, but also to extend the list of what will be paid by the Republic's administrative tax, so that, on the basis of both, there will be a greater pooling of funds into the state funds, i.e. the Republic's register. On the one hand, when you look at it like this, it might have a positive side. However, if it is in the light of what the tax is paid, which is the amount of these fees, it is only then that it is a special imposition for citizens who are hard to endure, given that these duties are more and more from day to day, by multiplying and by collecting such fines and such seemingly small taxis, so it is a great imposition on the citizens of Serbia. It also shows that through this increasingly imposing and creating a large list of goods for the introduction of taxis, there is also an extension of the list of what was not in the introduction of the parent law, so now there is one list, as a phone book, a list of all these goods and the funds on which the Republic's administrative tax is paid. We have warned about everything that is wrong in the adoption of the Law on Forests and fruit material and what is exactly waiting for us unless we protect our domestic varieties and protect ourselves from environmental risks. However, now that this law is being observed, this proposal shows that, ultimately, it does not care about the government or the state for citizens, it is primarily important to pay the Republic's administrative tax, and as far as imports are concerned, let it be imported as it used to be, everything and everything and as much as anyone will. The republican administrative tax has become one special imposition and special care for Serbian citizens. It's impossible to talk about a republican administrative cab without touching the administration itself. There was a saying in the people a long time ago, yet it was warmed up, which it says, "Keep the Lord of the Serbian administration and the Russian air; it is ugly for both to be uglier and worse." If you watch how this administration works, here I will tell you one of my practical examples of this morning in the municipality of New Belgrade. What I saw there, I don't think there's anything in the world. Under the mask of a modern organization, the most complex and complicated organization has been created. Whoever comes there for the first time to pay for any translation, any cover, would be much better and rational to hire a guide, because it would save him from the marathon running from the counter to the counter. If the truth is that folk saying that time is money, then it would be much cheaper for him. This running from the counter to the counter is not only physically tiring but it's also so complex and complicated that man doesn't know what and how to cope with these conditions. Instead of writing a guide on how to better manage the citizens, to whom to turn, it is only known when he finishes some work on the counter, then it is said to him – go to that counter; then when he comes to another counter, then they tell him – now pay on this counter, then go to the next counter. A special number has been introduced, so whoever hasn't managed to type his regular number in time has made a difficult problem, he's going to need it all day long for a single piece of paper. As far as administrative fees are concerned, it's my assessment that it's a kind of cantar measuring the weight of the administration and how solid the state is, that is, the government. Whenever the state, or the government, was on nocturnal feet, it always introduced republican administrative fees on everything and everything, with a great increase in nominal amount. However, the practice has shown that the solution is never there, but the solution is to dissipate the economy, to abolish administrative taxis, and to make a selective approach to paying for republican administrative fees.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17682	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment to Mr. Gačević? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17683	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and my amendment fits into the Serbian Radical Party's concept that administrative fees and all burdens on Serbian citizens should be reduced. The burdens for both the economy and the citizens are too high. It is high time the government began to realise its promise to reduce public spending, rationalise public enterprises. Unfortunately, this bill has shown that this is not her intention, to deceive citizens of Serbia, and that it is aimed at filling the budget in every way possible and that, in the end of the day, it does not wish for Serbian citizens to have a more decent life in these difficult times in which we live. As for my amendment to Article 48, it refers in that context to legal entities. With that in mind, I'd only read you part of the amendment. This is where a new tariff under heading 151 is introduced, so for business entities a tax of, believe it or not, 250,000 dinars for entering the name "Serbia". I'd like to tell you that a large number of private entrepreneurs are today starting some business with this amount of funds, meaning 250,000 or 300,000, with four or five thousand euros, trying to manage to provide their own and their families with any kind of existence, and it's quite inappropriate the amount of this tax for economic operators. As regards this heading 152, it is introduced to, believe it or not, social protection institutions for the accommodation of users. So it is indirectly introduced to socially endangered persons and it is regrettable that the government, which has very little done to provide socially endangered persons, has found it appropriate to introduce a fee of less than 10,000.00 dinars to issue a solution to the conditions for the start of work of such institutions. I would like to repeat once again, and this amendment of mine refers to this member being deleted, that we in the Serbian Radical Party are in principle against new taxation and taxation. In any case, the government's promise was to reduce public spending, primarily personal consumption. This law doesn't seem to do that. We already have too much public spending that seriously burdens all citizens and the economy of Serbia and has a significant impact on the liquidity of the economy itself. Also, the level of almost all taxi changes ranged from 30 to 40, and more per cent compared to previous proposals. The government is counting on 13% inflation, and you don't know where the law comes from, where someone has an idea that they can raise taxes in this amount. It is obvious that these taxes are also incentivising inflational expectations and mistrust is for businessmen and citizens in the work of the government, at a projected rate of inflation. It would be necessary, however, for the government to come to their senses and break up with a policy like this that destroys the entire economic system and the existence of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17684	Thank you, Mr Antic. Anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 50 of the amendment was submitted by MP Susana Grubjesic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 51st Amendment were submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to the 51st amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17685	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 51, with a proposal to delete that member. And this article 51. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes should be deleted, as should all members of this proposal. Following the increase in court fees, following the collection of oil derivatives, tolls, electricity and many others, there was an increase in the Republic's administrative taxis, and all in order to agree, as explained in the explanation, on the subject of a tax liability with the files and actions in implementing the regulations, etc., which may sound nice, but it is another seizing of the hand of the finance minister in the pockets of citizens. Article 51 says the finance minister, i.e. the ministry, will coordinate the dinar amount of taxis under this law with the rate of cost of living, according to data from the republican statistical authority. They are completely zealous, as the cost of living increases, so the finance minister raises and delivers a taxi, I suppose, to contribute to an even greater cost of living, rather than vice versa. If people are largely unemployed or work for very small salaries, and on the other hand you increase their cost of living by frequent purchases, how can you seek justification to increase the Republic's administrative fees? The finance minister should monitor the growth of employees' earnings, pension growth, and, based on them, coordinate the dinar amount of taxis, not according to the cost of living. They'll always go up. If this continues, for individual documents, solutions or permits, citizens will not even report, but will accept the risk of avoiding the fulfilment of the legal obligations. But if we look at the repression of the rule of law of Mladjan Dinkic, the increase of the republican administrative taxis is a child's joke compared to them. Here, though, you can't get your tractor kicked out of the yard or beaten up by the police, like a liquor store in Kelebia, but you'll probably give up something else that you need because of the amount of taxis. In addition to new prescribed fees established due to laws adopted in the fields of environmental, agriculture and energy, already existing fees are increasing significantly, with no justification, as Serbian citizens' living standards are getting worse. A significant number of taxis relate to solutions, requirements and permits that regulate certain activities in the field of environmental protection, such as issuing permits for export of hazardous waste, or, for example, solutions for meeting the conditions for monitoring, i.e. monitoring of emissions, emissions and noise. Instead of the state acting stimulatingly, by determining the height of the republican administrative taxis, when it comes to sensitive areas, such as agriculture, ecology, or, for example, health care, is exactly the opposite. Taxes are increasing significantly, and so it turns out that something that previously covered several shops now has its specific items, with a specific level of administrative tax. Some newly created items contain actions for which no previous tax has been paid. Mladjan Dinkic, thanks to the laws passed, whose idea maker he himself is, is taking large funds from citizens, from a non-working economy, which can be seen by the percentage of the growth of industrial production, from farmers, and now through new administrative taxis continues with the covert robbery of the impoverished citizens of Serbia. In this package of the bill, it was already about increasing court fees, so this increase that we are discussing today is only the finals of the wave of gathering of everything and everything in Serbia, which best shows how successful the current government is.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17686	Thank you, Mr. Ilic. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17687	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this government continues, means, and with such laws, as much as possible to deepen citizens of Serbia. Thus, in Article 51, on the harmonisation of the proposed taxis for some of the following periods, it says: "The Dinar has a taxi under this law will be brought in line, according to Article 28. The law on the Republic's administrative fees, with a rate of cost of life growth, according to data from the Republic's authority responsible for statistics matters", etc. Now the question is – why don't you coordinate it with inflation? The cost of living and inflation is not the same. You kept waving the statistics of the Department of Statistics as inflation is now smaller, how to live better, etc. Why don't you admit that the inflation you've projected has been reduced because the technical goods didn't add up significantly, or from 20% of any tax, they fell to 18%? Why don't you say that the cost of living has been accumulated, because now it's the first time you've paid taxes on electricity, the first time you've paid taxes on utility services, the first time you've paid taxes on tap water, the first time you've paid taxes on bread, milk, meat, flour, oil. It's the cost of living. Why don't you coordinate with inflation, but with the cost of living? That's how it suits you better. You will not publish the cost of life, you will hide it at some low inflation rate, and in this way you are trying to get Serbian citizens to live better with you, that the opposition was wrong to talk about inflation, that it was wrong to burden their lives with our taxes and taxes. Then why don't you get along with inflation, but with the cost of your life? This variant obviously suits you more, because that way you will be making even more income in the Republic of Serbia's budget and thus, even more, misusing that budget, will put a little more money in your pocket.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17688	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milet Poscurica submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica. Here you go, Mr. Pocurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17689	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the shortest member in the integrated bill and refers to the time of entry into force of this law, where it states that he enters into force the next day after its adoption, and we have amendedly intervened asking it to be, according to the Constitution, on the eighth day of its publication. Indeed, when looked more carefully, it is the seventh head of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where constitutional protection stands unequivocally. The explanation, opinion and position of the government on all amendments submitted and, of course, on this amendment to Article 52, which I am explaining, was signed by Vojislav Kostunica. So, an obvious legalist, a proven legalist who here is doing what he's doing, signes a completely unconstitutional decision, wanting to put into effect such a legal act as soon as possible, this law that has been passed, not explaining clearly what this is particularly justifiable reason for him to come into force immediately after the adoption and, in this way, to start with a harrass and a fine of citizens, legal and physical persons to the various services that will be addressed to the administration. The essence of these taxis is to pay a certain amount, 100, 10, five or three times bigger, for various solutions, consent, permits, overtures, additions, beliefs, etc. It's an administrative catch. Generally, the procedure, to make it clearer for citizens, is usually ahead or after some other administrative-technical, legal procedure that occurs, with one seal or seduction in the book, paying the amount that is moving, orderly size, several hundred to several tens of thousands of dinars. There will be no other benefits for the citizens of this, except that they will fill the budget, which we have heard has otherwise been very well charged in the first six months of this year. Now we see, the government, instead of responding in adequate ways and repairing the new situation, because the weather surprised us again, the storms, the winds and rains came back, before which we can only pray for God not to happen anymore, because, if we listen, they fired 200 or 300 anti-urban rockets, so they overlooked the cloud, so the small one slipped, so the rocket failed, so day after day, as if we were in the 18th century – ad hoc finds its way when it comes to obvious elemental disasters. The government does not give any assurance to the peasant that now, due to a decimated contribution that follows him after such events throughout Serbia, he will have some relief, only for the elemental demand before the administration he will have to take out of his pocket in 2/3 of cases money for what he has not paid so far. The government's obvious disregard for the status of citizens, according to the opportunities on which they live, according to their material situation, even the legislator suggested that they go into several tariff items that have not existed or existed so far, so they have been increased multiplely, and will indirectly hit all our citizens. For example, as far as health is concerned, which is close to me in headings 51 and 52, we are talking about issuing a marketing authorisation. Watch out, approval, that's one final act, one paper where the drug is approved to be placed on the market. A whole series of procedures, and we're talking about the drug law and medical means, we're talking about what the ministry or agencies are going to prescribe being collected and shown through the need for people who work there to pay well for what they're doing. So, there's gonna be a lot of work to be done, and once the final piece of paperwork is obtained, the approval that can be issued now will pay three and a half times as much, almost 10,000 dinars instead of 2,200 dinars. The same applies to imports of raw materials, semi-factory, semi-product and placing on the market, for laboratory testing, for proving the effectiveness of drugs in different studies, all of this will be additionally paid. We are witnessing that, following the current creation of the Ministry of Health, a large number of drugs are back on the list, and those that are more quality, more efficient and better, and that they are very expensive, and if they are now determining fees for each such attempt, it will only add to the drugs. We'll step up the solution to authorise the placing of drugs on the market. It's a huge procedure to come up with that solution and all that has to be paid. Only one piece of paper to write on – here, can be put on the market, it will cost. Imagine, in heading 141, and our MP spoke about the sale of products of animal origin outside business rooms, green markets and fairs, imagine now those selling hamburgers, burgers, etc., an orphanage that lives on something and for such consent to have a technical resemblance, one tent, one heater, it takes 12,000 dinars. This man who does it and who needs to survive, and maybe has a private butcher shop, went out into the field to do it, he has to give just for approval for that day 12,000 dinars for tax and sell something or not. He's also got a local fee he's gonna get for renting that space, and it's all calculated by square meter, and it's all too expensive for that day. So, just impose on the fairies, more new and new additions, no real discharge. Why did the government, why didn't the Minister of Agriculture address the peasants and tell them, if there were market surpluses, if Vojvodina hadn't been hit by construction clouds, that wheat would have been bought more expensive than last year, because if oil is twice as expensive as last year, why is it expected to be at least 20% or 25% cheaper than it was last year, why should it fall below 10 euros. Why not make a statement, why so brave and urgent, therefore, by an emergency procedure, not make a decision so that citizens can see that, in the hopelessness in which they are located after these elementary disasters and floods throughout the spring, they can count on something reliable and not indirectly inform themselves through news or various gatherings or different ministerial flashes of visits where they give a couple a little silence, including public opinion of all the municipalities that have been affected, but it is far from a real and real solution. Therefore, we think that this law, as well as other laws dealing with citizens... And, of course, certain fees must be maintained, I mean those that are full of budgets, but constantly trying to do so immediately and after the law has been passed, with an increase in absolute amount and quantitative amount of all the items that are taxed and different consents, demands and what they haven't come up with, we have to be against it. This amendment, on behalf of our parliamentary group, refers to the fact that at least the government has shown itself so fair that it doesn't care at least for seven days that it doesn't allow citizens to do what they can before certain administrative obstacles to do cheaper, even seven days. If you already decide to pass the law, vote for it, move it, bring it to one agreement with constitutional provisions under which it does not have to come into force immediately, because it is not a law that protects us from elemental disasters, war dangers, or anything else that requires it to be in an emergency procedure and immediately enter into force.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17690	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 35th item of the agenda – Proposal for a law on the issue of an extra stamp, at 15.00 hours after the end of the break. Thank you. [[After break – 15/05]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing our afternoon work today's session. We move to the 35th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the issue of an Additional Postage Mark (Statistics) You have received amendments submitted by MP Milovan Marković to the bill. Reports of the Finance and Legislative Committee and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted have been received. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Milovan Markovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Milovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17692	President-in-Office, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, an amendment that I have submitted to Article 1. The proposal for a law on the issue of an extra stamp applies to one change, different from that regulated in the draft law, which states that the additional postage mark applies to postal consignments in domestic traffic, and it applies only to postal postal shipments, primarily to the interest of the company to deal with postal services. Therefore, it is not possible to carry out unilaterally only assessments of what financial effects will be achieved and thus cover all types of services, so packages, express shipments. Practically, writing shipments would be something to assess during a certain period of introduction of the extra stamp. It is not the essence of introducing an extra stamp in postal services to design or plan certain manifestations of any character and finance in this way, but to simply provide additional funds through the extra stamp, whether for humanitarian actions, whether for other manifestations of social or broader importance. I therefore call on MPs to vote in favour of this amendment, which would show that the funds for the events covered by the proposal for this law are not collected for the benefit of users who provide services of this kind, therefore, that in Article 1(1), Article 1 adds that this applies only to correspondence in domestic postal traffic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17693	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Milovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17694	My amendment to Article 2 refers to the fact that, in addition to these actions and events, additional funds are collected in this way directly predicting that sport manifestations are also covered. The government's reasoning for the refusal of this amendment is that sport manifestations, which can be financed like this, can be subdued by projects of public interest or other actions of broader social importance and thus exclude the possibility of any sporting manifestations being subdued under this possibility of collecting additional financial resources. I think it's also important to point out directly that sporting events are events that can be used to raise funds in this way. In the same article, I have submitted an amendment that the time period for issuing an extra stamp should not be left to the government, but rather to be decided by law and reduced to seven days. Therefore, this is the essence of the content of this amendment, to leave out in point 2 of the statement that the Government determines the period of time of issue of the additional postmark, and to specify in the next position that the period is seven days. Again, the reasoning is essentially similar to what I have given for the amendment of Article 1 – that the collection of funds in this way is not projected how much it takes for this event and for this action, but to be a possible source of income, an additional source of revenue based on the extra mark, that citizens pay seven days increased by the amount as stated in the law. Of course, the promoter has missed the possibility that a better quality proposal for this law reduces the possibility of some manipulations in the extra mark, but this can be avoided by some enhanced control. Printing the extra stamp leaves some possibilities of manipulation – so that it does not cancel out, so that it can be used twice. This could be avoided by printing these stamps that are being placed on the market, thus providing funds, entrusting public enterprises and printing a unique stamp on which the value of the nominal value and the value of the additional amount would be printed and thus practically having full insight into how much these assets are. We have so far had the practice that the extra stamp appeared on postal shipments in the week of the Red Cross, in the week we marked to fight tuberculosis or Sunday of the Olympic Committee, practically knowing that during the year for certain purposes we would have an additional value of paying postal services. I think it is inappropriate that, no matter what event or action it was, the period of broadcasting and the use of the extra postage stamp extends to a few months or two and a half years, as it was for Hilandar, so let's completely unearth this action, completely forget whether we pay more increased postal services or thus provide additional funds. In this way, if it remains as in the Bill's proposal, it leaves the possibility for the Government, which has maintained the right to determine the period on which the payment mark is introduced, that, simply on the basis of the turnover in postal traffic, the calculation of how the funds can be collected, determine a period of six months and then block the possibility of avoiding payment of those services, on the one hand; and, on the other hand, the postal service users thus, avoiding payment of the extra stamps, place their shipments in mailboxes when you cannot suspend the distribution of such shipments, and you cannot charge additional services. Otherwise, it's not a world practice for these periods to be left to be set free, but simply, if we come to such an action, then citizens and service users know it's seven days. That is why I think this amendment makes sense and that it should enter into the content of the law and the Democratic Party will vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17695	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we have completed a search of the Bill's proposal in particular, I conclude the search of the Bill's proposal in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I would like to inform you, under Article 85(5). Rules of Procedure, we'll be working today maybe after 18.00 hours, either way, until the debate is over in detail on the 39th item of the agenda. We move to the 36th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLIES OF TRANSPORT LAW IN DRUMS COOPERATION (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs Dragoljub Stamenković and Bojan Kekić on the bill of law. You have received reports from the Transport and Communications Committee and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Transport and Links Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Kekic. The Transport and Links Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Milovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17696	Mr Chairman, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, the amendment tabled in Article 5 in a certain way raises the essence of the content of this amendment in those additional positions. So, I would like to say that by this additional attitude tabled by MP Kekic, the municipalities and cities cannot limit the number of citizens who want to provide services in the car taxi transport. I don't see a particular need to make it clear. Article 5 also states that the need to amend and supplement the Transport Act in road transport resulted from the perceived lacks of car taxi services. In this part of the reasoning, Article 5 states that some failures and shortcomings in this area can be avoided by making quality plans by municipalities and cities, based on annual plans, which include detailed analyses and research in the area of characteristics of transport requirements and that, on the basis of the traffic technical conditions of municipalities and cities, they bring annual programmes defining the optimal organisation of car taxi transport. This does not mean that municipalities and cities can determine whether there will be new people in the following year who will be involved in this type of activity, does not mean that there will be a limited number of those who can deal with this activity, but means that cities and municipalities, based on research by competent institutions, authorized houses and professionals, can bring these programmes. If by law you now limit one option at a time to create such quality programs that optimise this activity, then it is completely pointless to make this proposal. So I don't see this kind of attitude in this article of the law making any sense. This directly determines that anyone who fulfils the general conditions for the performance of this activity must be authorised by the competent authorities. By doing so, municipalities and the city cannot develop a quality programme, in accordance with technical and traffic conditions for providing quality work. It's very important that in this particular area, in the area of a car taxi, we have one orderly situation. We know that, if we leave the city of Belgrade, this activity is very important, not only for quality provision of services that almost every citizen in our city, but also for every guest in Belgrade, and that it is sometimes the first meeting with the services of the city of Belgrade or any city or municipality, first information, the first impression of the arrangement in the business run by the city and the public works. Therefore, in this way, by adopting this amendment, which is proposed, we would not limit the possibility of cities and municipalities to, in accordance with the provisions of the views set out in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, assess that, based on research and analysis of traffic and technical opportunities, development and activity in the following year, such as that, whether it implies the extension of the number of service providers to one dynamic or another, or whether the city will prepare some new opportunities and new locations for the work of these people, set criteria, introduce some other rules into this activity. Therefore, it does not appear in the bill that there will be a limited number of those who can deal with this activity, but I also think that it should not stand that cities and municipalities in such a decided way cannot, under their programmes, predict that in an optimal way, the number of participants in the provision of services of this kind is projected. I therefore stress that the Democratic Party Parliament Club will vote against the adoption of this amendment, in order to maintain the essence and intensity of this law and the meaning of what the law wants to regulate this Article 5, which provides for the addition of Article 36 of the existing Transport Act to road transport. I urge you to accept this suggestion that the content of this amendment, if we look a little more carefully, is not in line with what the amendments and additions of this law are to be achieved.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17697	Anyone else by the same amendment? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 39th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements OF THE RAD (specificities) You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the Law by Members of the People: Snezana Lakićić-Stojačić, Ljiljana Nestorović, Meho Omerović, Aleksandar Djordjevic, Branislav Stevanović, Branislav Janković, Dragoljub Simonović, Dragoljub Anastasovski, Nikola Todorović, Rodoljub Gačević, Momcilo Dovnjak, Momcilo Dovnjak, Goran Cvetanović, Igor Bečić, Paja Momčov, Dragan Čolić, Hranislav Perić, Živodarka Dacin and Rajko Baralić. People's MPs Živodarka Dacin and Rajko Baralic, in writing, withdrew the amendment they proposed to follow Article 10. The draft law shall be added by Article 10a. You have received amendments submitted by the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs on the draft law. You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on amendments submitted to the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17698	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act, requesting that Article 1 be deleted. The explanation we gave in the amendment: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has become the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, at whose request the sessions are set against the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, with the aim of making it impossible for MPs to carry out their work through the submission of the amendments. "The labour law was passed two months ago in the National Assembly and its changes are unnecessary, because MPs do not serve to meet the wishes of individual ministers of the Government of Serbia, such as the resolute minister, Mr Lalovic, who is not present here today, and this is a proposal the government made to the National Assembly, a law passed several months ago in the National Assembly by the will of most MPs of the National Assembly. The draft labour law is one of the most important legal proposals submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly. During the regular session, Serbian Radical Party MPs had clear views under this bill, we submitted more than 40 amendments to the draft labour law. Some of these amendments were adopted by the National Assembly, but the law did not get what form we wanted from the Serbian Radical Party. The labour law is one of the most important legal projects proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly so far during this term. So we tried to protect, above all, our amendments to the rights of employees and citizens of Serbia. So the role of this National Assembly should be to pass quality laws, which will protect the interests of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This is about regulation of matter that is very important and important for all citizens of Serbia, because the previous DS government has passed a Labour Act that has dissipated several hundred thousand people in Serbia, etc. So we expected you, from the ruling coalition, to have this bill in line with the economic and social situation in the state. Of course, in the amendments, we managed to change this original proposal in the voting day, and this resolute minister and government are trying to re-adopt the law that the National Assembly passed to harm, first of all, workers. Most importantly, you're in an election campaign, from the ruling coalition... First of all, I think of the Democratic Party of Serbia, because it is she who is the holder of the government and the Prime Minister is the most responsible for the economic situation in the country, for the social situation, where Serbian citizens live at the edge of social existence. Of course, the previous DS government has passed this law in a brutal way in a previous convocation, by stealing votes, and it should always repeat after this pay phone, because the Democratic Party has, by that law, passed, by this term, practically left several hundred thousand people without a job. We expected the government of the Republic of Serbia to regulate this matter in a way consistent with the interests of Serbian citizens. Therefore, the SRS considers first and foremost that these amendments and additions to the Labour Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly are not necessary. We do not need to meet the wishes of individual ministers, such as Mr Lalovic, who has not been able to be present here in the hall today, as we talk about this amendment and supplementation of the Labour Act. It is precisely seen in this proposal to amend and supplement the Law that those amendments with which the Government disagreed, and the National Assembly here adopted the amendments submitted by the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, which directly refer to Article 62, here in this case the Bill of Labour, or the Labour Act, and Article 1 regulates this matter relating to Article 62. I will read it, from this very point of view: in Article 62(3), it is required to delete "the ministry responsible for labour affairs, the ministry responsible for health affairs". It is a sentence that needs to be deleted and thus will completely change the essence of this Article 62, just as the draft law was without amendments adopted in the session of the National Assembly and which changed the appearance of the law. Apparently, this government of the Republic of Serbia is not responding. So, I'm going to read the entire article 62, which reads, "The work done in time from 22 hours to 6 hours the next day is considered working at night." That's the first attitude. Second position: "The employee who works at night at least three hours each working day or a third full-time during one working week shall be obliged to ensure that the work is carried out during the day if, in the opinion of the competent health authority, such work would lead to a deterioration of his health status. "The position 3 says: "The employer is obliged to request the opinion of the ministry responsible for work, the health and union affairs departments on measures of safety and protection of life and health at night at work. "So, this particular sentence I mentioned in attitude 3 is amended according to the proposal for this amendment and the addition of the law. That's right on Article 62 when we talked here at that session about amendments clearly. I think it was an amendment, and now I'm going to look at it, because there were two, I mean, our MP Darko Glisic, as far as I can see, and he was referring to this work that was done between 22 hours and 6 hours the next day and considered working at night. The Serbian Radical Party believes that this amendment of the SRS should be accepted, as well as all the amendments that we have submitted to the amendment and addition of the Labour Act, because we believe that the minister cannot change the will of the majority of this National Assembly, because the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has made most of the Labour Act available. So this is where he wants to come back, with these changes, the Labour Act in that original proposal, which wasn't adopted in the voting day. So the essence of all of these members of this amendment and the addition of the Law is that these changes will go to the expense of employees, so they do not protect the interests of workers. What is, above all, the interest of the Serbian Radical Party is that this amendment and all the amendments that we have submitted to protect the interests of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17699	National MP Momir Markovic, following the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17700	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's another attempt, I guess the Ministry of Labour and the ruling coalition think that the third time God is helping us, so for the third time in a month and a half, he's returning the same law to work, processing, in order to possibly trick us into saying something, no matter how we wrap it up in shorelands. You remember that a month and a half ago, we had a heated debate about the Labour Act, and then he tried to get this parliament's expert team to redeploy what the MPs voted and I remember that Minister Lalovic was the moment that the amendments to that law were passed by Mr. Prophetovic to bring him paper towels, I guess he was crying about what his law "broken" at the time. Most of the time, despite attempts to abuse the bill, Tadic, the president of Serbia, returned the law to them, and then there was a vote here, and it was revoted, and Tadic signed it, and not even in that philanthropy, as far as I can see, the Ministry and the Government were not satisfied, so they began to see that the adoption of only one-tenth of people was re-adjusted, in order to customize it, but not to the citizens of Serbia and the employees of Serbia, as far as you know, every day a few dozen people are out of work, but probably to that European Union. They received homework and then had to prepare the state of Serbia, to preparate the state of Serbia, to bring us into the EU there in 2020. As the European Union started, watching a referendum in France, the Netherlands, I believe that by that year when you will bring us into Europe, the European Union will fall apart and then we will be alone again. National MP Aleksandar Djordjevic has submitted an amendment to Article 1 requesting that this member be deleted. The government's explanation of why the amendment is not adopted is: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the amendments to the Labour Act ("Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia") are amended. 24/05) necessary to remove the opposite of individual solutions in the Law, which occurred by adopting a number of amendments from Members of Parliament submitted to the draft labour law, i.e. to remove unnecessary administrative procedures" etc. So, the ministry, ladies and gentlemen, didn't like what you adopted as a legal project, didn't like the corrections that you adopted, I mean us SRS MPs when I say adopted. It doesn't suit them, and now they want to use this correction to further mutilate the depravated Labour and Dispensation Act anyway. For Article 1, to which MP Aleksandar Djordjevic submitted an amendment asking that member to be deleted, it is said - in Article 62. In the introduction of nighttime work, the employer's obligation to seek the opinion of the ministry responsible for work and the health services ministry is lifted. The protection of employees in night work is ensured through other provisions of the Law (the obligation of the employer to seek the opinion of the union) etc. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in a German economy, in one such state, perhaps the protection of the union could satisfy the needs of workers, that a worker, when determined by night's work outside the regulations, would seek the protection of the union. In our union, where you blackmailed one union president, the other banged in the pots on October 5th and blew in a whistle, and he's been a government minister since 2003, and the third union president you've appointed president of the Employment Community Management Board, you've got them all in your hand. Another few workers working in Serbia, to whom should he address for protection? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when the next day comes for the vote, I believe, believing in the conscience of the good part of the MPs of the ruling furniture, that you will adopt this amendment and that this bill will fall in the day to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17701	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. I ask the MPs not to earn it, for no one has the right to interrupt the speaker except the President of the Assembly. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Branislav Stevanović submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Branislav Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17702	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2. A draft labour law, which, unfortunately, for the third time, we have a debate and controversy. And there's been a lot of talk about it in public. To Article 2. I tabled an amendment saying Article 2 is deleted, because in the previous law and in the one we passed a few months ago, employees in Serbia had the right to use three days when they gave blood. Today we have received one propaganda material, how many ways they want to convince us, us and all the people in Serbia who want to willingly give blood. However, this proposal that you set out in the amendment and supplementation of the law wants to destimulate all people in Serbia to give blood. It's just that the blood donor only gets one day, so it's just that day when the blood has the day off. Gentlemen, this really doesn't make sense, because there are people who do heavy physical work, especially people who work at height, which is certainly not recommended, and Mr. Piya, our MP, can say more about it. You want here for the third time, one way through fraud and persuasion between you and coalition partners, to push some 13 amendments to the law members, which clearly speaks of your intentions that you must force this proposal to push through. What I'm trying to say is that this House's reputation is being torn down in a certain way. Tom, of course, makes the most of his contributions to Parliament itself. It really doesn't make sense that this is the way it behaves, that three times a year comes back on the agenda of the Labour Act, and we've heard that it's the same members who have to go by force, and the goal is clear: this is how foreign investors want to protect themselves, so that they as employers are protected and have far less obligations towards employees in Serbia. Here, and Mr. Secretary has arrived. The destruction of the congregation's reputation exists. You have shown that you continue the continuity of the previous government and that you act like your predecessors. So where they started privatization and all your criminal activities, you continued that same way, you acted the same way. This also shows the way, when the Democratic Party's support is needed, there and when a proposal is to pass, make an agreement with them and it must pass. In the end, I want to thank everyone who took the liberty of visiting Bratunac yesterday, the place where I was born. One of the victims in Bratunac of all these events, the war acts from 1992 to 1995, was my mother. I can tell you that I am very disappointed that the President of the Republic has sent his envoy who has made extensive statements in Dnevnik and all the media, which is inappropriate, and Mr. Prime Minister has also sent his envoy, which is inappropriate and unserious on your part. However, something unusual happened at the cemetery, which is not the custom of happening – when they mentioned the Serbian Radical Party that it was laying a wreath, a large round of applause was heard in the silence. I want to say that our people feel the air of light and feel who can help the Serbian people and who truly thinks about this poor and tormented Serbian people, especially those over the Drina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17703	Thank you. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17704	The honourable MPs and respected public television viewers, apparently, will have a rare honor to be able to present an amendment to the Secretary of State. We have this rare pleasure here, so I think it's still a good practice, which sometimes some ministers remember. When our Rules of Procedure was changed, we were all found, we wanted to see what was behind it, and see what was coming: MPs from a lot of office work and because of stories and saws in the hall and in the buffet can't see what was being served, we get everything today. In the previous days, we've been discussing counter-guarantee for certain laws, where you can't even see where the big money that's been received as a loan and which, of course, is spent on our roads. Today, we have one law that is unusually important, the Labour Act, which changes after two months. What is it, we all have to ask ourselves, why does the Resolute Ministry have to change the will of our MPs? It is certain that the provisions of this law that have been passed here do not correspond to anyone – whether to the Government, whether to the very resolute minister. It is certain, again, that no one can say that it is not contrary to the will of the citizens we represent here. Here, in a violent way, by arguing in such an unquality way, thanks to the new rules of procedure, the swindling wants to change the will of us, the representative of the citizens. But it is likely that at this time interval of two months, deals, unprincipled pressures, blackmails have come to an agreement among the parliamentary majority, so it is estimated that the moment has now come when the provisions of this law can be changed. To go back to the very provisions of the law. What's this about? It will change Article 77 so that voluntary blood donors are allowed just one day off, the day when they give blood. What's very interesting again is the explanation given to us. I've turned my attention to the President of the Assembly to protect us MPs, at least this part that works less than the rest of the work, that can't see anything from the hard work that's being served here as stupidity and as something that offends our mind. Look at what he says in his explanation: "Voluncing blood is not a disease." Please, it's like when someone tells MPs of the National Assembly that it's voluntary to give procedures, maybe voluntary giving of blood can't lead to disease. But this is something written and standing here, don't give it to us. We know that well. We're all here for a year. We have so many common cultures that we all know that voluntary blood donation is not a disease. Why did Serbian Radical Party MP Mr. Stevanovic submit this amendment, and why are we against such a change? First, the basic thing you need to know is the situation with blood transfusions in this country. Our country is in transition and you should know that the needs for voluntary giving are four percent of the population. At this point, we don't even have three percent of our population by volunteering for blood. If you read the press and follow, and I hope those from the ministry are reading, there was a recent article in "The Voice" that revealed Belgrade's needs and lack of blood, then you will see that our medical service is in big trouble when it comes to blood. It is known that we advocate voluntary giving, not professional giving of blood. This measure, when you give your days off, is a measure of encouragement and stimulation. It is not a measure to protect health, but to encourage that giving, for it is insufficient. The entire transfusion reform has been followed by scandals; you know that there is also a reform of the transfusion service and that famous project, where from the original desire to preserve transfusions, to introduce an information system, to centralize the control and quality of the work that has been done, that our patients are infected with HIV virus and hepatitis B. We have further come to the end of the fractionation of plasma and want to be given to foreigners to work. There are already indications that a deal has been reached with some of the Bečlijahs and that commissions have already been agreed. What's scariest about this whole thing is that the tenders and the project are completely non-transparent. We've looked multiple times, and I've asked for a project to be discovered from this pay phone, to see carriers, executioners, budgets, cost specifications. It's not there. We suspect it's a major robbery and theft. When it comes to transfusions, you have a great rebellion in the Zlatibor County, where day-to-night meetings are being held, where the donors rebelled, who say they will not give under these conditions blood. What do you do now when you have a situation this upset, when we don't have blood donations? You're going with one measure to take it off, to ruin the extra transfusion and that reform. Please, medically, that's why I'm saying this, not political. You're saying we're having a political conversation. According to our Institute of Health, Serbia has a high percentage of anaemic women, children and people. We fall into countries with the highest percentage of anemics in Europe. Please, there's an increasing number of people who are being refused to give blood. I'll remind you, women can give blood if the hemoglobin is 125 grams per litre and men are 135 grams. Very few such people who have values over these and at the border are, most of all, those donors who give blood. If you take blood on a liter of hemoglobin to a man who has 136 grams, let's say a man, you take blood on a liter of hemoglobin, you reduce him immediately by 10 grams automatically. You don't know that. You had to consult the doctors, the health minister, so he could explain it to you. You're automatically endangering the health of those people you're going to take blood from. Who gives the most blood? Look at the social map of these people, they're the most workers, they're the most endangered categories. So, to be clear, please, pull this, this is scandalous. With this you hit directly on the health of the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17705	Thank you, Mr. Momchilov. The word is Mr Anastasovski, then Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17706	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't come out here to talk politics, but I felt the need to say something about voluntary blood donation and the reduction of one prize that blood donors had. I felt the need, because I have a lot of friends of voluntary blood donors, and I'm one of them, and on Friday I got a confession for 100 times the blood given, and otherwise I've given 106 times the blood. I don't think it's right that this award is being reduced in this way for a human act, and mostly workers and peasants give blood. So I would ask you either to accept this amendment, to return to the old giving, because otherwise there is no alternative but to pay for that blood. But it's no longer a human act, and I don't know what's going to happen in that case. Now you take only healthy blood, blood that helps babies and disillusioned ones, and you can be sure that buying blood will cost more than this country and health care. The blood will be bought from drug addicts, infected people, which certainly isn't good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17707	Thank you, Mr. Anastasia. Thank you very much for welcoming your human act and the recognition you have received. Congratulations. Here you go, Mrs. Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17708	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Minister, does not remember that the Government has so quickly changed certain provisions of the law itself. One of these provisions that changes these changes and additions is the provision of Article 77 relating to voluntary blood donors. The Democratic Party thinks that this provision represents the adoption of employers' requirements to reduce cases of paid leave, but the issue of treatment of voluntary blood donors, as well as their importance, given that their right is being used, seems to us, as a coin for co-operation between the government, trade unions and employers. This problem needs to be approached from the health and social aspects. We have heard about these facts from previous speakers, so that the matter of absence does not have to be generally determined against all donors, but its length can be prescribed by individual collective agreements, starting with the weight of the business done by the donor in the company. Since, I remind you, the new labour health law will predict the percentage of the weight and risk of each job, then this solution will be enforceable in practice. For this reason, the DS parliamentary group believes that the amendments to the Labour Act in this article should not be supported, because we do not think it is good that, in such a short time, changes are made for such an important matter that do not contribute to people who are willing to give blood, and we know that at this point it is one thing that is daily necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17709	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 140(5), paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted to the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. A representative of the Proposer has adopted this amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Jankovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Branislav Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17710	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on article 141. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I submit an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Labour Act where I ask that the member be deleted. We must note that the Labour Act was adopted two months ago in the National Assembly and the amendments submitted by the Serbian Radical Party, which would improve the poor bill, thanks to the council, but it must be recognised that the government has now installed part of the proposed solutions to the Serbian Radical Party in this proposal to amend and supplement the Labour Act, which has become almost regular practice in many of the proposals we have had so far. As regards Article 3, I will read only part of the proposal, which reads through the employer's collective contract, in accordance with the law, the rules, rights and obligations and responsibilities of the employment relationship and the mutual relations between the participants of the collective agreement are governed. The labour regulations, i.e. the labour contract, in accordance with the law, regulate the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the employment relationship. The text below follows four points governing the proposal of Article 3 but the SRS parliamentary group is particularly disturbed by point 2 above) where it is said – the labour rules are adopted by the Management Board, and the employer is not educated by the Board of Directors, i.e. the person who conducts affairs in a legal person in accordance with the law and, in the following text, the Director. In the case of an employer having the property of a legal person, the labour rule shall be brought by an employer or person authorised by him and, in the following text, by an entrepreneur. The last point of view is the clarification – the labour rule ceases to apply on the date of entry into force of the collective contract under Article 1(1). So again the discretionary right, once again too many powers and again the possibility of abuse of the rights given to the employer, he was the director or entrepreneur. It is quite clear that this bill is more restrictive than the previous one, and its application further narrows the rights of workers. The SRS parliamentary group will certainly not vote in favour of such a proposal for the Labour Act, because it, with all these cosmetic changes and additions, does not represent a better solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17711	The People's Messenger Aleksandar Djordjevic has the word, and then Natasa Jovanovic's MP, and then Zoran Krasic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17712	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an amendment submitted by my colleague Branislav Jankovic on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group on behalf of Article 3. The draft labour law speaks very clearly – we ask that it be deleted. So that Article 3 is about Article 94 of the current Labour Act, and it was brought by most MPs, although it did not like Minister Lalovic, so today he wants to return the original proposal here for consideration. I hope that all those MPs who voted in favour of the amendment submitted by our colleague Natasa Jovanovic from the Serbian Radical Party, and the National Assembly adopted it when this Labour Act was adopted, that you will not be able to return this and that it will not go to harm Serbian citizens. Because what you are trying to do today with these amendments to the Labour Law goes directly to the detriment of Serbian citizens. You're just continuing your continuity with the DS government of Zoran Djindjic and Zoran Zivkovic. So you, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, have responsibility for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. A few hundred thousand citizens are out of work. Serbian citizens are hungry, and you'll probably come out to replicate and say we're talking about a demagogue story here. Mr. Minister, you may not be affected by that, and the citizens of Serbia are having a hard time living at the moment. Some Serbian citizens live better and will advocate the SRS, and because of these pranks, in the light of the draft amendments and additions to the Laws that you have now submitted to the National Assembly, after three months of the adoption of the Labour Law, when you were not satisfied because we changed the proposal that did not go in favour of what you represented, because you were once one of the union leaders. When you were telling the truth: is it then or today as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Therefore, the SRS has a clear view on the amendments we have submitted and we consider that the amendment to Article 3. The bill should be adopted by the National Assembly, that this member should be deleted, as well as by all members of this draft labour law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly. If you do not vote in the voting day as you voted when we passed the Labour Law, you will show that you are not working for the benefit of Serbian citizens. Our goal here in the National Assembly, our MPs from the Serbian Radical Party, is to firstly pass laws that will improve the standard of citizens, and your story of better citizens' lives based on legal projects that will leave several hundred thousand people out of work and continue the continuity of the government of Zoran Djindjic and Zoran Zivkovic and DS and coalition partners put you in the same position to continue to do what they did before you. So they turned into a black citizen and working class by passing the Labour Act, so the previous government. So this is how you do this, you just keep doing it in continuity. I hope that there is awareness among MPs and the coalition majority in this assembly and that they will vote again for these amendments submitted by the SRS parliamentary group, if you are aware that this will enable Serbian citizens to live in this country with dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17713	The word is made by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic, amendment to Article 3. The draft law reached the Assembly on 4 April.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17714	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Markovic, first of all, I am speaking to you because you have made a huge involvement in the adoption of the Labour Act in March of the month. If you as the president of the National Assembly had protected the highest legislative authority and this institution, it would not have happened now that Minister Lalovic was coming to the National Assembly and thus playing with the feelings of future mothers, all those women and all men, and MPs supported this amendment that I submitted to Article 94. Laws in March of the month and mostly in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at some point the night of the vote, adopted. What happened after that cast a stain on the ruling structure, on the fact that the President of the Republic was also playing with the Parliament, or the ruling majority, and it is amazing that we now do not know who we are to address, that we are asking to retain the solution that MPs voted in March, because that person is certainly not Minister Lalovic. Things have changed in the meantime. Minister Lalovic was disciplined, now Covic wonders, and if you want to discuss pension insurance, if you want to discuss reform, and of course we don't want it the way Lalovic originally imagined it, Covic shows up and says – now stop, I'll tell you what to do next. Since Mr Lalovic has not received a package from Covic for this Article 3, i.e. for Article 94. The law, it is up to you, ladies and gentlemen, to return (not only for this, but for all other amendments) the dignity of the National Assembly, which has gained power and had a convincing majority in March of the month to vote then on the amendment to Article 94, which I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. I thank you once again because you had good intentions and listened to what the Serbian radicals say and accepted that amendment that I submitted in March of the month, and I will remind you of what you voted for back then. Article 94 reads, and MPs adopted it, that is, because, in the meantime, after the whole mess that took place, the law came into force, that it was returned to the vote again, that the working woman had the right to leave due to pregnancy and childbirth (hereinafter: maternity leave), as well as the absence from child care for a total duration of 365 days. The further text Lalovic deletes: "for the first and second children, or two years for the third and fourth children. "A working woman has the right to begin maternity leave based on the findings of the competent health authority at the earliest 45 days, and necessarily 28 days before birth time. The maternity leave lasts up to three months after the birth date. The working woman, at the end of the maternity leave, has the right to leave for child care until 365 days", and now the further text of Lalovic erases, "for the first and second child, or two years for the third and fourth children, from the day of the start of maternity leave from the position of the 2nd member. "The following attitude also erases: "Right to maternity leave and leave for child care for a total duration of up to two years there is also a working woman who has three or more children in the first birth, as well as a working woman who has one or two children and has two or more children. "The father of the child can use the right of the third member in the event that the mother leaves the child, dies or for other justified reasons is prevented from using this right (bearing the sentence of prison, severe illness, etc.). That's the right of a child's father when a mother is not in a working relationship. During maternity leave and leave of work for the care of a child, a woman, or father of a child, has the right to compensation, in accordance with the law. "This Article 94, with the best intention not only of the SRS, but later turned out to be the parliamentary majority, was defined as precisely as possible. This will of all of us, Lalovic, wants to step down and frame us with a member of 94 who wants to say that it means essentially the same thing as a member in 94, or to supplement it, which is not true at all. I must also tell you and everyone who is following the People's Assembly's transfer that it is the most pointless playoff with what these women heroes, born of two and more children, are working for Serbia and the Serbian people today, because Lalovic is going to take a step further and those rights that are truly originally given to them by article 94, and the law that you have adopted in such a way wants to eliminate them and to deny them, because he intends to through this modified provision, which is in no way the same as this article 94, with the amendments on my part then, deny them until 1 January 2006. There is no excuse for such an intention by the minister, no justification for the Serbian government's intention to support it. Obviously, this Covic, who later came to him, did not want him to do it in that sense, and so you do it in the voting day and support what we did in March of the month, accept this amendment from counterpart Jankovic and allow the article 94, as we voted, to apply it to the well-being of mothers in Serbia and to all future generations.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17715	Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Simonovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17716	I'll just continue, as a member of the 3rd and a member of the 4th. The bill makes one whole. Before I engage in a concrete review of the text of the amendment and the text of the proposed member, I must quote for the sake of the MPs, simply reminding them to the public, that we obviously have no luck with the labour law. A few years ago, he was troubled by that vote from Thessaloniki. At the beginning of this year, this law was once again problematic because the president of the weak breasts accepted the duty to settle the law after the vote. As a result, there was a return, so there was a kind of overvote here, then the publication and then the Junior Dinkic syndrome appeared, and this bill is actually Junior Dinkic syndrome. As was the case with the Tax Act, when Dinkic was simply not satisfied with what MPs voted in the National Assembly, I think it was about the fuel excise, for oil above all, he got angry and better in five or six days, made a new draft of the law on amendments and supplements, threatened and the majority of the assembly consolidated the ranks, it went on in force just as the younger one demanded. As more and more cabinet sessions remind us of the period when the Prime Minister was Radoman Bozovic, when it was debated until the end of the cabinet, and in the final phase of the government threatened even to fight among the government members, I believe that this government is also going this way, because other ministers also want to implement their forces. Since the previous member and this member are almost treating the same question, which is absence, maternity leave, child care, it is important to bear in mind some facts. For the third and fourth children long ago, there was the right to an increased duration of maternity leave. Probably seven, eight or more years ago, when the right was recognized, there was a medical profession that evaluated it. Probably demography experts realized that the white plague was threatening us, and they realized that this part of social policy could be transferred to the employer. It was mostly a social property at the time, so it was built as the right of a working woman, later and her spouse. I don't see why we should be leaving this social policy right now and why someone would smile and complain, like it just happened about a paid absence from work when it comes to voluntary blood donation. That right existed before. Some have also assessed why it takes two, three or more days. At the very least, it doesn't matter how long it lasts. They estimated that it was necessary to stimulate voluntary blood supply. They estimated that, given the weight of the job and the restoration of these psychophysical abilities, it took a few days to get out of work. I am simply surprised when MPs of the congregation's majority - doctors smile about the amendments, and the very rude Government explains why it does not accept the amendment, and even in one simple sentence, it states: "Blooding is not a disease". That's a terrible explanation. Through television, they appeal, invite citizens to volunteer for blood, since it is necessary, and the state here carries on its measures an anticamping. It is similar when it comes to Article 94a, which Natasa Jovanovic had just interpreted, so I have no intention of repeating it. If someone wanted an existing solution from Article 94 to divide into two members, for legal-technical correction, then it is really problematic why a member of 94a is only starting to apply as of 1 January 2006. The next aspect of this labour law problem is a kind of disrespect for the National Assembly. If the National Assembly voted on the amendment a few months ago, it accepted the amendment almost unanimously, with what right could the government ask to amend that provision of the law? It's not just the government slap sent to the opposition who voted in favour of the amendment, it's a slap that the government directs to the ruling majority and says: we don't respect you, you don't interest us. That's what your government tells you. (Velimir Simonovic, from the scene: It is not true. That's right, Professor. If the government respected what the MPs decided, it would not, apart from a few months, return what it had not been through here for the first time. If the government finds it unable to provide funds or that our economy is unable to provide funds for this enhanced right of employed women - maternity and pregnant women, then it should be said and the government should take steps to secure the funds, because it enforces the law, it enforces the law, and here it tells us from time to time: budget surplus - raises taxes, budget surpluses - raise taxes, budget surpluses - introduces even an extra stamp. You know what, you have to act in a unique way, if you have some way and if you know the direction you're going. This is a reflection of disrespect, the very idea of proposing a law like this. So, the government doesn't appreciate the profession, the government doesn't appreciate the needs of the demographic policy of the Republic of Serbia, the government doesn't appreciate the National Assembly, the government doesn't appreciate the MPs, the government values nothing. This may also fit what you harassed us last year to pass laws on settlement between employers and trade unions, on socio-economic councils, on different institutions that need to cloud the essence – that labour rights do not come true, and if they do, they depend only on the employer and exclusively on the state's activities, but selectively. Well, we can't support such a bill. We can't support that concept. As part of illegal affairs, individual ministries in the Republic of Serbia have also been involved. That's what happens to civil servants. Ask these 3,500, who got some papers that they regulated their working-legal status as a surplus, whether they were satisfied and who turned their hands. The Social Democratic Party, the party whose MP from here a few months ago talked about depoliticalising the state administration, and in the ministries where they rule, they hired or conditioned to join their party. As Batic and former union official who was also president of a union, later Minister for Labour, Employment and Social Policy. Nothing has changed that much, it's our cruel truth. If the minister had come out for this payphone and said openly – I have no control in the field of working relations, I don't even have control over my assistants who print books and hold a gig, selling out dispersions and instructions, playing some experts, like that lady who forged elections when there was a "salonica vote"; that he said – I have no control, we estimate that the economy can't withstand this kind of employee rights, then we open another paper and otherwise talk about the problem of respect for labour rights. There's an idyllic story here, honey and milk, and there's a rumor here that it's in line with conventions, recommendations and other IOR acts, and last year the minister was not allowed to attend the assembly. Why wasn't he supposed to go? Because he promised to make only minor changes to the Labour Relations Act, he did not announce that there would be a new labour law and he disappointed everything, and employers, and those representing trade unions and workers. We don't have any contact with the MOR, because no one wants to contact him. He, the poor man, accepts all things and all things, and speaks of the flag, and of the families, and of this and that, for all things, is an expert, and when they lie. That's what we've noticed here and we're warning about it. If the problem is that the state cannot guarantee the respect of these rights, if the problem is that employers cannot fulfil these obligations that amendments are incorporated into the law, then let it go out and let it be said, let it be said – we are not able to force employers to comply with the law adopted by the National Assembly. It's a different situation. Here you go, labour inspection, here you go, financial police, here you go, other authorities, let's do it. No, the massacre was also made in the labour inspection. They get an illegal termination of a working relationship, so how do they control someone if they respect the law? Who do they get from? From one of the ten assistants of Minister Lalovic. He hired the entire party in his ministry, as assistants, as deputies. How did only Orlic's wife become an expert in labour law? Where did she learn that, sitting here with us for two years? I'm not mad, I'm telling you it costs you. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] And to you, Mr. Cirkovic, it costs or it'll only cost you. Just think about it. Just because you're complaining about these amendments, I remind you that the selective minister worked: in one part he accepted all our amendments from the last time, but he couldn't mentally overcome that bump, admit it, but he had to move on and build on some other things that had absolutely nothing to do with reality or anything. And so our criticism isn't just for criticism, our criticism is based on facts. If it wasn't for these vile intentions to change this law, some things might be said that it's a good thing that the bill changes, but the whole thing is wrong. From members to members, you will see that wrong solutions have been given. You just smile, but remember, this is true.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17717	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 140(5), paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. At its meeting of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, the proposing representative adopted this amendment. The 4th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. Since this amendment, with a correction, has been adopted by the Government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment, with correction, has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 5th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Dragoljub Anastasovski and Hranislav Peric. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17718	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Democrats, and as a branch of the Social Democrats democracy, in this country, try to force democracy into the mind of Serbian citizens, employees, of everything that breathes in Serbia. Of course, democracy as they see it. Democracy is a strange phenomenon that has affected Serbia since the "buldozer of the revolution" and it will be difficult for Serbia to free itself, unless the next parliamentary elections solve the problem by trusting true Democrats, Serbian radicals, to preserve what little is left of the state and the rights of Serbian citizens. National MP Mr Anastasovski has tabled an amendment to Article 5 relating to Article 108(1) point 4). In order for Serbian citizens to know a little better what this is about, it is about the right to past work. It's about past work, it's about what Tito didn't deny the workers, the employees, it's about a percentage that's already been accounted for for for for more than 15-20 years at work, for years at work. It is the fact that Minister Lalovic, denying the right of Serbian citizens, wants to deny this labour law, as well, acquired by work. Minister Lalovic asks that in article 5 per cent of the 0.5 per year of work internship be replaced by a percentage of 0.4. Explanation... I, however, haven't seen an incoherent explanation of those arguments since the other day that I tried to interpret here for this pay phone, and here this is incoherent. I doubt there's anyone in the government who could say, "Stop, people, this isn't how this works." The reason why the amendment is not accepted is because the first amendment is not accepted, and then says here – the amendment is not accepted for the reasons why amendments to the Labour Act ("Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia") are necessary in order to remove the opposite of certain solutions in the Law that have been made by adopting a number of amendments of MPs submitted to the draft labour law, i.e. to remove unnecessary administrative procedures, etc. Minister Lalovic dared, ladies and gentlemen, you elected by Serbian citizens, and each of your terms is worth 14, 15, 16 thousand votes, stopping your unimpeached right to vote for a certain member of the law, for a certain law, for a certain amendment, to oppose all voters who voted for you and for us, for me and for all MPs. Minister Lalovic would have, by any chance, been a very good absoluteist in an African country. This is not an African country, this is Serbia, this is a country that has rich and work, and an economic and union tradition, not to mention other traditions. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you who voted for the amendments to his caucus bill that was here a month and a half ago, you, your position and your opinion, Minister Lalovic, puts the draft law amending the Labour Act at its feet. If you will allow, allow me, representatives of the Serbian Radical Party will certainly not vote for such a radical violation of employees' rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17719	The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17720	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, and in the case of Article 5 of the amendment and addition of the Labour Act, all the nature of this proposal is shown to be the amendment and addition of the Law. The resolution ministry, through the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has tried to show to the MPs here that these changes have only the character to bring some amendments adopted by the National Assembly in the voting day, etc. It is a member of the 108th electoral and valid Labour Act, item 1 point 4) where he says this - based on the time spent on work for every full year of work achieved in the employment relationship - 0.5 per cent of the basics. Now, in Article 5 of this proposal, amending and supplementing the Labour Act, the Government of the Republic of Serbia proposes to the National Assembly that in Article 108(1) point 4 the percentage of 0.5 be replaced by 0.4 per cent. We from the Serbian Radical Party believe that this Article 5, as well as all previous members of this proposal for amending and supplementing the Labour Act, should be deleted because the National Assembly adopted the amendments of most parliamentary groups. This was an amendment submitted when it came to article 108, and when most MPs voted on it, it was precisely for this amendment that is now in force in the Labour Act. The government of the Republic of Serbia is trying, as my colleague, Mr Krasic, told the speaker that after two months with a proposal to amend and supplement the Labour Law, the original proposal, which threatens the interests of Serbian citizens, violates the will of the majority in the National Assembly that has already voted on this bill. You want to forcely bring here a proposal to amend and supplement the Labour Act and force your parliamentary majority, which we from the Serbian Radical Party cannot agree with. The National Assembly should, above all, pass quality laws, laws that will protect the interests of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia. So, by protecting the interests of the employees, we will protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia. We do not need poor Serbia, this is the goal of this National Assembly and of us MPs from the Serbian Radical Party, and there should be all other MPs in this assembly. Let Serbian citizens live better, and that is what we will stand for from the Serbian Radical Party. We cannot accept what you are trying to do with these amendments and additions to the Labour Act, to continue the continuity that the Democratic Party started a few years ago, by stealing votes from the National Assembly, by voting on various sides of the world, which has brutally passed such a law that has left several hundred thousand people without a job and humiliated Serbian citizens. So, the Serbian Radical Party, these amendments, as well as Article 5. The draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act requires that this proposal, submitted by the government to the National Assembly, be deleted. I hope the MPs will vote for this proposal by the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17721	I thank Mr. Djordjevic. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17722	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, over a million people in Serbia can't take their payroll at the end of the month or half of the month and look at what gross earnings are, what net earnings are and what is the total amount in the dinars that are due for past work for each year spent at work. They're people who lost their jobs. It's really a question of whether that number is final. It moves around a million unemployed, but you know for a fact that there are many citizens of Serbia who are not registered in any way and are a full-time population, and how capable they are of working. All of you who started your working century many decades earlier, long before we worked for many years, unlike some ministerial associates, such as Mrs. Orlic, who may have two years of employment, and her first internship was here in the Republika Srpska Assembly. And imagine, as a great expert, which is an insult to every single individual here who has at least one decade or more of work experience, that such a person should be the first associate of Minister Lalovic and take care of working relationships. Just like the predecessors of power, Cedomir Jovanovic and similar to him, who had their first job in the National Assembly, and especially all of them, and they are many, which are connected to the current furniture, just like the previous, who do not live from their work, have no sense of it and are probably surprised and say – it is not that big difference, from 0.4% to 0.5%. It is big, because it means a lot to everyone. And you know, as counterpart Markovic said earlier, that it was always one achievement for workers to fight for it, no matter where he was employed and to everyone. It's a small category of population that has an underprivileged job experience. And those who have it, such as members of the Serbia-Montenegro Army, are now completely disfigured, humiliated to the end because of the inability to receive their salaries regularly because they are none, because the systematic army is being destroyed. We MPs, regardless of which political party we belong, and in particular we Serbian radicals who are in opposition and absolutely confident that in the next meeting we will manage the finances of this country, we always seek to enable these people, especially those who care for the defence of the country and the members of the MUP, to also get a larger amount of funding. However, it is obvious that the legislator's intention to amend and supplement the law is to play hard again with what the MPs are and the most legislative body. I couldn't possibly understand it, as a longtime MP and as someone who is fighting for true democracy and for the right of the people's representatives to express the articulated wishes of the people, that Minister Lalovic is not also an MP. He did, and then he came with these amendments to the already passed law in March of the month and suggested that the amount (someone more, someone less dinars, and to the MPs is much more because they are even higher) is reduced from 0.5% to 0.4%. Is there more cynicism, more unscrupulous than to be played with the will of MPs? As the majority who did not answer at that time is formed, the majority who in this way barely makes this ruling furniture, it is a question for parliament and it is a democratic process. People decided and voted in the Republika Srpska Assembly when they voted on it and gave it the opportunity to be 0.5%. However, we do not need any further surprise, neither to me nor to other national representatives, because of the minister's behaviour. It's enough that we've got that in light of these amendments. You see what the minister wrote to us, he told us, for not accepting this amendment to make past work 0.5 instead of 0.4, because it is necessary that it responds and amends the Labour Act in this way, because it says that it is possible to remove the contradictions of individual solutions in the Law that have occurred by adopting a number of amendments of MPs submitted to the draft labour law, i.e. to remove unnecessary administrative procedures and harmonising and precision of the scope of individual rights of employees. Just to tell me that that's what Jelena Orlic wrote, which she never spent one day in a factory or in production to know how hard the money is made, Minister Lalovic, then just to spice everything up with this argument. If you are an honorable man, resign as MPs, because in this way you mock yourself, or the MPs who have the right to create a majority here and change the bill. This is what you wanted to tell us that it is unnecessary and pointless to submit amendments because the word of the promoter must be respected. Then why should we react to the amendments and why try to convince our colleagues who belong to the governing structure to accept our amendments, if you send them a clear message that this is not good. MPs at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are those who choose the government and each minister. We didn't vote for you. We will never be for such human resources as quota, blackmail, pressure, intricacies, incompetence, as you have gathered yourself into Kostunica's government, but be sure that this will cost the citizens because this solution directly penetrates their pockets. No matter how much you count, to control budget funds, you know that you're someone, even if it's during the month on his salary and on a kilo of bread, you took bread from your mouth or anything that could buy your child and yourself to eat.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17723	I thank Miss Jovanovic. The word of the peoples is sent by the Ambassador, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17724	Dear Vice President Angelkovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Angelkovic, please pass on to President Markovic – he was only able to abuse the authority we gave him in the Rules of Procedure and extend the work of the Assembly every day. When he went to the MP clubs, he said it would be rare, only when we should, when we miss him, etc., and when he has nothing to do at home, he here extends the session. I have submitted an amendment to the amendment to the Labour Act. My proposal is to delete Article 5. I suggested that this member be deleted because you suggested that workers in Serbia be reduced from 0.5% to 0.4% by past work. When a worker's salary is accounted for, it's only an item for past work for a worker that's safe under the law. What is written in the law, the employer cannot change it, and everything else - how much the boss gives you. I understand the minister's pressure on the side that foreigners will not buy businesses unless the laws under which workers will not have any rights are passed. Mr. Minister, should I defend the workers from you when you've spent your previous working hours working in the unions? You shouldn't have suggested this because of the respect of the organization you were getting paid from, and maybe you got an apartment, or you should give it back to the union. Until yesterday, you were telling a story, protecting workers, labour rights, and you were well paid for it. Now you have a different story, now you're a minister, you're getting a good salary in the government, and you're trying to reduce workers' rights as much as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I also understand that all parties in the campaign declare themselves and promise to work in the interest of workers, farmers, until votes are received. When elections pass and power is gained, then there is no program, promises are forgotten. And then vote for a smaller percentage for workers for past work, then vote to cut severance fees to workers, then you can vote that an employer can fire a worker whenever he wants. If the worker gets a dispute in court that he was wrongly fired, the boss is not obliged to return him to work. What you're doing to the workers, it's already been seen with us. It was like that 70 years ago. Do we want to get the workers' rights back to 1920 and 1930 when the boss was everything and the worker was nothing? Is that the promised Europe? I just wanted to go back and remind the workers who were promises in the last election. I don't think you'll be able to fool Serbian workers in the next election. Vote for us, and when we come to power, then we'll sell your businesses, and you'll be out of a job. That's what happened in practice. Since the last election, hundreds of thousands of workers have been fired. This is how you gentlemen repay your voters. I'd like to hear someone cite me only one member in some law than any law we've passed since 2000, to this day, which gives more rights to workers than those who had. I therefore ask all MPs in the hall to influence those who are not in the room to pay attention to Article 5 in the voting day. The labour law and vote for my amendment. We're not gonna help the workers much, but we're not gonna cut anything out of what they had. I hope you will support my amendment and I thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17725	I thank you, Mr. Perry. I'll pass on your views to Mr. Markovic. Mr. Krassic, you're out of time. The People's Messenger Tom Bushetić has the word. Miss Jovanovic, I've released you four minutes more than it's been under the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry. Here you go, Mr. Bushetti.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17726	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Minister Lalovic, MP Hranislav Peric, has proposed an amendment by which an increase in earnings based on past work should remain as it is in the current law, means 0.5% for each year of work. This solution was in force until 2001 while the Labour Relations Act was in force, and then by amending a set of laws in the field of labour and social legislation, above all, by amending the Pension-Invalid Insurance Act, because those provisions were in that law, and all these other changes led to our past work being accounted for for for for for each completed year 0.4%. Of course, the explanation at the time was that it was related to the method of calculating wages and to the fact that it is now in effect gross wages. But no matter what, we will vote for this amendment, so, the SPS, by which the reckoning is done – 0.5% for each year completed. Maybe at first glance this solution doesn't mean God's what, but if we take the most elementary math, in 20 years, the increase would be, if we keep the current solution, 10%. If these changes were to be made and complemented on your proposal, it would be 8%. At first glance, it may mean nothing, but in any case, at this point, every dinar is very important for each employee. It's very important because our employers, especially after October 5th, are absolutely soulless. They almost respect nothing. They do not respect the contract of work, nor the amount of wages, nor how the contributions are paid. Serbia, when it comes to these new employers, is the same as in the palm of the hand. We have numerous examples in Serbia after privatisation of how these bosses and these employers behave. For example, here's the new owner of the Juhor in Jagodina, right after buying this company, cut the salaries to all employees by one-third. This is how many other employers behave, especially new tycoons. It's a similar situation when we talk about Dracula. What are the salaries in the companies where he owns it? No privatisation in Serbia has been done in a proper and valid manner. All the companies were sold, so to speak, why. Everywhere, so in all the companies, people are fired, wages are cut. Today when we talk about these good privatisations, it's not a good privatisation of Sartida. You know that Minister Vlahovic often boasted, including all the other DOS leaders, that this is fantastic privatisation, that the results are excellent. However, the fact is that in Sartide production has increased five times, but wages have only increased twice. That's why we insist that the state guarantees as much rights as possible to all employees. This is a very small step, but I think he's very important right now. That's why I suggest that this amendment of ours be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17727	I thank you, Mr. Bushettich. Is there another representative of the parliamentary group, a MP who has not used his time, wanting a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Todorovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Nikola Todorovic. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17728	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, it's been a little while since the Law of Labour was passed to see the effects of this law and that these amendments and additions of this law should follow. Explanation for the amendment of Article 111 The law on labour, or erasure of attitude 3, is not convincing, Mr. Minister. For MPs, just to remind them of what it says in that article, and Serbian citizens; in Article 111. The labour law refers to the concept of minimum earnings, in its position 1, where it says: "Employee has the right to make minimum earnings for the standard effect and full-time, or working time equal to full-time". The amount of the minimum earnings shall be reported in paragraph 2. Item 3 defines at which time this minimum profit is signed, i.e. a minimum profit contract. Deleting this attitude 3, practically, would lead to confusion in the Labour Act itself. If you look at Article 104, where the profit is defined in five positions, where it begins – the employee has the right to receive the right to earn the right to earn, in accordance with the law, the contract of employment. Item 2 – an employee is guaranteed equal earnings for the same work, the same value, which is realised by the employer. Article 4 is particularly interesting – the decision of the employer or the agreement with employees who do not comply with the position of the 2nd member is invalid. See in which case and when it will come to the employer and the employee making minimum earnings unless it is defined by some general act, or in any way. The law previously provided two basic reasons for the employer to offer an employee contract under changed conditions, i.e. when market disturbances, whether the purchase of raw materials has been repromated, or if the problem is product placement, so the employer is not in a situation and is unable to pay the profits, then he can offer a contract under changed conditions, is considered justified and the employee should be paid minimum earnings. This is not how you're gonna see it. The employer and employees conclude a contract of work by signing an employment contract, practically, by entering into work; all this other thing that seems like a change practically goes hand in hand to the employer, the boss. If the employer, in our terms in particular, is in a superior relationship with the job-seeker, means that the negotiating position of the job-seeking worker is not such that he can negotiate a profit that the employer will not offer, and most often the minimum wage is offered, very difficult working conditions, and if the state does not control it, then practically employees do not have any protection in the field of work. Only an example is to specify the obligations of Articles 121 and 122, to remind the minister that he is employed to issue a certificate of the accounting due by the end of the current month for the previous month, even if he does not pay him, to explain the reasons. That's never happened before. Or, in the next article, where it is said about the obligation of the profit register, where the employer must enable the employee to see the profit account, to sign both of them that it cannot be changed and that it remains as a document of lasting importance, none of the employers today respects it. I would remind you only that in the criminal provisions you provided that these are large fines, from 600,000 dinars to millions of dinars, and if this were to be sharply applied, you would practically shut down all employers today in Serbia and they would not be able to work, because these are large penalties, and I agree, order should be introduced in the field of employment, discipline should be made. What's difficult for both you and any government is that today's self-manager, the factory-determined worker, we now put him in a position to be a hired worker, because far more are those who seek employment than those who offer any job, and there are difficult conditions. You mentioned in the explanation when we adopted one of those laws that had been moved a lot towards the employer and you wanted to put it back somewhere in the middle; now it's practically a slaughter that went far away from the employer and employees have no means of protection at all. The employer, the boss can hire whoever he wants and whenever he wants, and that's his right and that's undeniable. Anyone who has not met certain conditions at work, or who does not meet the expectations of firing from work, can be undeniable. All we have to do is respect the procedure, so there is no dismissal that is not in accordance with the law, so there are disputes, etc. But these changes later that you've brought... Even that's no longer a dispute. The employer doesn't even have to comply with the firing procedure. He can quit in the most brutal way. The worker will seek protection in the court, will receive it, and the employer may propose that the court make a decision that does not return the employee to the employer and not be paid double the fee. Imagine an employer who will in one rude way fire an employee, not taking care of the procedure either. The employees will seek protection in court, will sue, the employer will recognise the lawsuit and will immediately ask the court and will promise a double fee not to return to the employer. This last attempt to protect an employee has practically fallen off, and what's going on? I said it on purpose – it will promise a double fee. Look, here's a homework assignment for you: via your co-workers at the Ministry by a random sample system, control how much the current Labour Act applies and how much employers respect it, whether it's a state sector, whether it's public enterprises where the founder of government or local self-government, whether it's other business entities, see especially those companies that we call state-owned enterprises today or where government capital is owned, how much they owe to employees on a variety of grounds, on any basis, or unpaid earnings and employees are not able to collect. Then you will see what order it is of size and how many companies you owe and how and when you can, and the state is the boss and employer who doesn't meet his obligations to the employee, how you will charge from someone who has abused, exploited the worker, exploited him in the most brutal way, did not pay him the promised, or guaranteed, no profit. By the way, I got two letters from a gentleman who signed up as Vukasinović Zeljko, where he practically screams and complains about the relationship of an employer in one company in Belgrade, that is the Public Enterprise "Garaza", where he asks all the government in Serbia to intervene, because he complains about the director who, by the way, says a DS member and whoever is not a member of the DS loses this job, gets fired, gets paid. It's one of the roughest gimmicks in the company and send an inspection and see what's going on in that company. The man also addresses the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic, all the institutions, because he says they bought one union worker from this Labour Act and only a union activist is protected and no one else. What is claimed is that the birth and mother who has a small child are protected – it is normal to protect her, because the employer cannot quit her, there is no need, because that is what the state pays while she is in that status. When that status ends, the employer can always quit, but you can't quit to a union activist. The only one who's protected is a union manager. If he is in contact with the director or employer, then other workers do not have any protection and so I will leave you this letter, send as much as to see what is going on in JP "Garaza" in Belgrade and what are these abuses when it comes to the relationship of the employer and the employee.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17729	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17730	This member of the bill, Article 6, just shows that the government has realized, but with a delay and that when we explained to them the last time the law was passed, what is a collective contract, what is the minimum right guaranteed by the Labour Act; they are now changing it, but not changing it in one quality way, but something partial. And what is deleted is the attitude of Article 111, because it has become practically absurd if the existence of advice and the existence of a special law on peaceful dispute resolution is added to this. So, if this change was fully implemented through the law, not only in those provisions concerning collective agreements, but also in those other provisions, then what is proposed to Article 6 would be possible, but since it is not until the end, then it warns us to pay attention and see what is actually behind this partial intervention. Therefore, Article 111 merely deletes the provision of a general collective agreement, i.e. that the general collective agreement regulates the conditions under which the employer and employees can contract minimum earnings. I must return you to the time when we passed the Labour Act, the minimum earnings must not be the subject of the contract. It must be prescribed by law, must be defined, must be determined under which conditions it is paid. Position One is acceptable, there's no regrets, but what are these situations where the law guarantees employees the right to minimum earnings? He worked, he achieved standard effects, he has full time. What is it now that justifiably prevents the employer from paying off that normal profit, rather than having to go to the minima? These are probably economic reasons in which the employer, technical, technological, and others can be classified as so-called “the employer. ” objective working conditions at a given time. It's not solved by this member or the next member. When adopting the Labour Relations Act, the ideas were, above all, proposed that it be regulated by the general collective agreement, and now as an explanation of why Article 3 is deleted, it was stated that the general collective contract only obliges those who have signed and since all employers do not sign it then, in fact, employees are in an unequal position, depending on whether they work with the employer who is the signator of the general collective contract or not. It's a free interpretation of the reasoning with the bill. There is practically once again evidence that ideology is lagging behind, there is no concept, but a hill in the government of the Republic of Serbia one point that is important is budget, income and budget expenditure. Other points aren't at all interesting to the government. This was imposed by Dinkic, of course by Labus, and since it is all about other topics there is no place in the government, no space, no time to take a fundamental look and to consider not only this issue deeply, but all other issues. So it was just now about that amendment whether this fidelity and the length of work will be valued for each year for 0.4 or 0.5 and essentially banalized not only in the bill, but I must say, in 60% of the discussion on that amendment. It was all said from the position of past work. It's an abandoned concept. It's a concept that just existed with us and nowhere else on the globe of the Earth. Everywhere and in every place, every employer greatly appreciates what is called the loyalty of an employee and a good portion of his earnings depends on how loyal he is to his company, his company, and the standard of fidelity is the length of time spent working with that employer. The drastic example of a good estimate of fidelity is Japan, where generations work with the same employer. If the great-grandfather worked and is now a grandson, this employee has his own status on the basis of this loyalty, but that loyalty is a guarantee that it is a good worker and a good worker that everyone appreciates, respects, and everyone wants to pay and has to pay.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17731	Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Rodoljub Gačević. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Rodoljub Gačević has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17732	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, for the new Labour Act, it can be freely said that it is less humane, less motivated by work, less humane conditions for work and less protected by the interests and rights of workers at all. This proposal to amend and supplement this law cannot, in essence, change the law more significantly and quality in order to make it better, rather, make it even worse and worse, and as such, it is better to delete it and to withdraw this law rather than to apply it and accept it. Article 7 which provides for the payment of severance payments if the employer cancels the employment contract, clearly indicates that there was no social dialogue between the Union of employers and employees, i.e. the Union of employers and trade unions. To tell you the truth, I'm just wondering why the union's opinion would be sought when it's known that what political option came to power, that's how it formed and founded its own union. So when the DOS came to power, it formed the Independence Union, imposed it in many companies as representative and declared it representative. This union was practically a government service, i.e. giving amen to the government's decisions to abolish, i.e. liquidate companies and declare workers a technological surplus. This union has preceded the government more in making a proposal to fire as many workers as possible, to abolish businesses and thus the interest of workers' rights has hardly been represented. For these reasons, we believe that such drafts of the law, since they are not high quality and do not have any advantage over those legal solutions that were previously, in relation to the old law, should be withdrawn, or amendments and amendments should be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17733	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17734	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have suggested that the final position be deleted in article 7. I suggested this for the reason why a new solution is proposed which is worse for workers than an existing solution in the law. In the current law, the severances cannot be lower than a third of the employee's salary for each completed year of work in a working relationship. A new solution proposes to pay one-third in the first ten years, and one-quarter each year next. Again, old practice is happening – there is no one to reduce, but the workers. I also have to say that I won't vote for laws that deprive the administration of workers and farmers. The most difficult thing in this law is that the law suggests a minister who was a well-known unionist. When he does that, it's no wonder some others support laws like this. My argument with this member is the same as with Article 5.(Zoran Krasic, from the place: What does Covic say? Covic says there is nothing wrong with this law. As a result, I will not repeat the previous discussion, but I suggest that Serbian workers not vote in the next election for parties who vote to cut the percentage for past labour to 0.4% and not vote for parties who want to cut their severance allowance.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17735	The People's Messenger Tom Bushetić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17736	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we remain to support the solution that is in the current law. It's not the best solution. For severance, one-third of the earnings for each completed year of work are projected. That solution is better than what the minister suggests, where some symbiosis is created in some way, so up to 10 years goes to one third, over 10 years to one quarter. Of course, all these solutions are far from those solutions that were until 2000, at the time of the SPS government. Just to remind you, at that time, people who had lost their jobs, who were technologically surpluses, over 30 years of training, could be at the Employment Service until they found an adequate job. For over 25 years, the internship was a cash compensation of 24 salaries. These were real socialist solutions, solutions that were in the spirit of the need of every man who was out of a job. Of course, here is one solution in the current law of Solomon, better than what the minister suggests, but the whole problem is that all rights are reduced from day to day from month, and the employers, as I said in their first address, are really soulless, not taking care of the interests of workers and employees, nor respect their contracts they have signed, do not even respect what they were buying businesses. It's in Serbia everywhere, like in the palm of your hand, the same thing. Privatization was a robbery. I think the most important task of this assembly is to do everything possible to review all privatisations. Simply, in Serbia today of 1,300-1,400 privatisations, at least 1,000 were made in such a way that there was a robbery, the layoff of workers, that all those people on the street now have no solution. Staying in Ruma a few days ago, my colleague Obradovic and I learned that there was a robbery of the municipality and the largest combination of "Agrorum". This prominent and significant combination, where there were 1,000 workers, where there was machinery, where there were several tens of thousands of drowned pigs, cattle, etc., Batic, Covic and Mihajlovic bought it all. We're in this conversation with the citizens of Ruma... It was a bit of an infidelity that they went so openly. They told Covic that he did not buy that part of the farm, but bought his wife. When it comes to Batic and Mihailovic, they have confirmed it. They say the minister used to come in at night, I don't know why, I guess he'd take those fat pigs. When it comes to Batic, they say he is often a guest there, especially hanging out with the President of the Trade Court. Simply, all those citizens, and there were hundreds at that rally, said Ruma was robbed. First the agrocombinate, but all the other companies. They were also talking about what happened. Good privatisation, which Vlahovic speaks of, is the privatisation of "Rumagum". It's a company that was sold for $500,000, and they say it was only $1.500,000. The boss immediately fired half the workers. That's the situation. Just like Ruma, that's the whole of Serbia. For example, so is the small municipality of Rekovac, where I come from. Two combinations were sold, or two companies existed with 100 workers and were both sold. Nobody works there today, nobody gets paid, one misery, one despair, but for these very reasons, I think it's a great task of this assembly and all the political parties to undo privatisation wherever it can be, and it can be in many places, and in my deep conviction, it's about so-called thousands of businesses and companies. Now we're coming, precisely because of that, to the point that now there's a transition on the agenda. These DOS leaders often spoke, and today some say it's a painful transition, that it's a difficult transition, that it should endure. Well, it's easy for them. If only in this privatisation they did what they did in Ruma, then we can know what their position is, what assets they have, what capital they have, and how it is to the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17737	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17738	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, a few more words about this amendment. I will remind you that in the principle debate on this law, I have declared that the basic reason for the adoption of this law, as stated in the explanation, is to eliminate the contradictions that were in the existing law. We support it and it is not disputed. Amendment of Article 158. The law, which changes these changes and supplements, has nothing to do with the opposites. Article 158 which speaks of severances when they are fired is not contrary to any member of the law. In Article 158, MPs then voted that it was fair, that workers should receive one-third of the salary for each year of work. It has already been decided in this congregation and is not contrary to anything. There is no reason to change Article 158, i.e. to change the way the severance is accounted for. I especially point out this because a solution like this is offered – that up to 10 years a worker gets a third and over 10 years a quarter – is not good and is not fair to workers in the second half of the working and life span. I also remind you that they cannot reform themselves only on workers, only on these people. We now have an absurd situation – to stimulate the severance of workers under the age of 10, and to destimulate those over 20 and 30, and to get fired. Em they get fired after 30 years of internships, they get less severance, and no one's gonna hire them. They're the biggest victim of these called reforms. Even if this controversy is added in previous days on amendments to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, which are again announced to be affecting people from the second half of the working and life span and pensioners, everything breaks over their backs. I think it is good not to accept the amendment of Article 158, i.e. to accept the amendment so that Article 158 remains valid. As far as the PIO law is concerned, we've been against him, we're still against him, and it's good that this government pulled him out, because I just think it's gotten to her that I can't burden those people, at the age they've earned, to break all the reforms. It's the same story for this member and for this amendment by this member. Therefore, Article 158 in the applicable law should remain as it was, i.e. the amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17739	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17740	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a little while, MP Bushetic tells of the strong engagements of certain ministers from certain ministries of the previous government. However, not all of them were ministers, there was one head of the Coordination Centre, as I recall, so I'm wondering if these people had charged that night's work increased by 30%, if they'd charged their travel logs, because they had to leave a lot of times, while they robbed the company there in Ruma. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8. It's a bill, but it's a article 189. The law we previously passed. With the bill, the minister deleted the part where we from the Serbian Radical Party try, however, and employers in some way to protect but also protect employees. He says: "Employee who has been cancelled because he does not achieve the necessary work results, that is, does not have the necessary knowledge and skills within the meaning of Article 179(1) of this Act, has the right and the duty to remain in service for up to 30 days (hereinafter: cancellation period). "In this part further: "The duration of the notice is determined by a general act and a contract of work," the minister asks the bill to delete this and give some benefits – up to 10 years a month, up to 20 years two months and over 20 years three months. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the biggest problem that will create such a law, if passed, will be the next day for the SRS when it takes over, because everything it does, is being done by your activists of the ruling coalition, who are employed by the many agencies that you have formed. Each ministry has at least one, many and two, and I expect it to be in some ministries and three and form a government agency, as an independent agency for the formation of agencies. I'm wrong, though, only in the Ministry of Faith did you form an agency. I expect you to do that, too. Our basic problem will be the next day when we cut off the state bureaucratic apparatus, and yours who do not meet the terms of the Labour Act, in the sense that they do not have the necessary qualifications, that they do not achieve the results of the work etc. and that their only qualification was that women, for example, were the wives of the president of certain political parties of your coalition partners or that they were field activists, party activists. Many of them have only a formal academy since school, but it's important that they have your party's membership card. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if the minister had taken at least a little care of what he was proposing, it wouldn't have happened if he had brought in a lot of companies that had just worked. I've received a proposal to amend the members, of course, I can't do that, but I need an explanation to read to you; this proposal cannot be adopted, because it can't be spoken, it could be spoken in principle. It is about members 197 and 180, a large national park, which has so far downloaded the number of employees from 350 to 200, respecting the conditions set by the government. But there are jobs that are of temporary and occasional character, and so far they could be employed for a certain time, for a month, two, three, until these jobs are completed or taken over by a student cooperative for less qualified jobs, for physical affairs specifically. This law abolished provisions that temporary and occasional workers could engage through cooperatives. It says this - and when it comes to specific jobs in forestry, agriculture and tourism, they can also be over 35 years of age, as well as the provision that temporary jobs... In the Cooperatives Act, it was that, when it comes to these jobs, they could be over 35 years old and that temporary jobs, occasional jobs couldn't last more than 120 working days. If objections are not accepted, and the minister is not interested in the objections of those who work directly there, the national park is being put into a situation that all the positive effects of rationalisation that he has had so far literally cancels. He is in a position to find the financial situation very ungrateful and unsatisfactory. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the smartest thing I would suggest for the minister to be there, and he's not, he's not interested, is to withdraw this bill, to go a little bit among the few companies in Serbia that are working, to question, to look at the situation, to get out of his cabinet, out of his "audia" and then to go to the MPs with one legislative proposal. I am convinced, as far as this bill is concerned, as well as the next day, that you will vote against this bill, as well as when we voted by making amendments, and that the minister's will, delivered in this way, should be stopped.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17741	Thank you. The People's MP, Aleksandar Djordjevic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17742	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Momir Markovic submitted an amendment to Article 8 and explained in his presentation our party's position on this proposal to amend and supplement the Labour Act, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to the National Assembly. In the case of Article 8, the nature of this amendment and the addition of the Labour Act can be seen. So, this Article 8 says, in Article 189(1), paragraph 1 is amended and reads: "Employee who has not achieved the necessary work results, i.e. does not have the necessary knowledge or ability within the meaning of Article 179(1) of this Act, has the right and the duty to remain at work for a minimum period of one month, and for a maximum period of three months (hereinafter referred to as the cancellation period), depending on the total insurance standing, and that is: 1) a month, if he has completed up to 10 years of insurance training training; 2) two months, if he has completed more than 10 to 20 years of insurance internship; 3) three months, if he has completed over 20 years of insurance. "Station 3 is deleted, and the present position 4 becomes heading 3. In the present position of 5, which becomes attitude 4, the words "up to 30 days" are deleted. The Serbian Radical Party considers that this Article 8 of the amendment and the addition of the Labour Act should be deleted because in Article 189 in paragraph 1. The bill, i.e. in the Law on Labour, which this National Assembly adopted several months ago by the will of most MPs, both of us from the SRS and of what is the essence of the individual amendments that we have submitted to correct this legislative proposal that was being corrected by the Government for the benefit of, above all, the workers and the citizens of Serbia. We believe this Article 8 should be deleted. As much as you claim it is important to comply with the Labour Act, taking into account the recommendations of the European Union, in your reasons for passing the law, as the Government has set out here in its proposal to amend and supplement the Labour Act, it is primarily important to the Law on the protection of the rights of employees and, of course, the rights of employers. Therefore, the order of the above-mentioned reasons for law-making must be: under one, the rights of employees and citizens of Serbia, and only then to comply with the recommendations and legislation of the European Union. So, the first rights of workers, and only then to comply with the recommendations of the Council of Europe or the European Union, is that in every draft law you propose to the National Assembly you have an explanation for these proposals and for the adoption of legislation. So, the draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act speaks of how much the government of the Republic of Serbia wanted to return to its original state, to bring workers to the position they were in with the previous law, which was passed by the Democratic Party and the Government of Zoran Djindjic and the Government of Zoran Zivkovic, the Democratic Party that left several hundred thousand workers without a job, which turned into black in Serbia's economy. The essence of this government is obvious that if you from the ruling coalition, MPs in the National Assembly, vote in favour of this proposal to amend and supplement the Labour Law, you will show that you continue to destroy, above all, the full Republic of Serbia, when it comes to the standard of Serbian citizens, when it comes to workers, when it comes to citizens. This country needs one authority that is serious and that, when proposed and passed by laws, must pass them in such a way that they are in favour of the state and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Serbian citizens today live in difficult economic and social conditions. So, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all of us in the National Assembly are tasked with improving the standard of citizens. The Serbian Radical Party, with its proposals and amendments that we defend for this speaker, aims if you as the ruling majority do not want Serbian citizens to live the way they should live, a man's life is worthy of social justice, and to think about how to fix the country's difficult economic situation and the situation in the economy. In this way how you work and how individual resolution ministries work, as has been done on such a legal proposal as the Labour Act, you show the nature of your authority. After all, this government obviously, if you vote for this amendment and the addition of the Labour Act, you will show that you continue the continuity of the destruction of the Republic of Serbia, as did the Democratic Party, which in the past few years, by December 2003, turned Serbia and Serbian citizens into black.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17743	Thank you, Mr. Gjorgevic. Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Momcilo Duvnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17744	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the failure of one government and its ministries is seen in more frequent amendments and additions to the laws already passed. That's the case with the Labour Act. The law was declared on 15 March of the current year. He hasn't even lived yet, let alone being applied, and our government and its Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy are already proposing his changes and additions. It doesn't happen to a serious local community, let alone the authorities of local self-government. The Serbian Radical Party and its MPs have warned in this meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that the Labour Act has already been introduced through the proposed amendments, which unfortunately have not been adopted, that it is not good and that it does not reflect the needs and interests of workers, and therefore are increasingly their protests and layoffs. We'd like to know from our government how many day workers across Serbia are out of work? How many factories, in various forms of property, go bankrupt or their gates close? Is there anyone responsible for this condition? In the past, our laws were prescribed by the countries of Europe, and we are today importing European laws that apply to our standards, to our lives, not to economic European standards. Is it possible that this law and its provisions provide an answer to these questions? I'm sure you don't. I'm sure they're not improving, but they're making it worse anyway, the difficult economic and social situation in Serbia. For these reasons, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9. I believe that in the Ministry and Government there are educated and educated people, so in my opinion, this member is too high, because it also says in Articles 8, 10 and 11 of the passed law. But let's write and complicate, when we can't just and plainly. I'd like to get an expert opinion from the Ministry, because my voters think I'm right. But there's another bigger problem here. Serbian Radical Party MPs are constantly warning about it. Namely, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has become the government of the Republic of Serbia, not the other way around. We witness a situation like this every day. The government of the Republic of Serbia is demanding that the National Assembly sessions be set against the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with the aim of making it impossible for MPs to carry out their task through the submission of the amendments. Serbian Radical Party MPs have never been and will never be just a voting machine in this assembly. The largest electoral body in Serbia is behind them, and we will never let him down. We defend and protect the interests of Serbian citizens and are here for them. All of us are expecting new laws and new changes and additions to the laws already passed, and the dissatisfaction of citizens is growing. Instead of having these problems and getting out of a bad situation, we are having a debate and making valid decisions, the government is forcing us to "draw the car back". Our ministers, with their hasty statements through various media, publicly state some views that are not in the interest of citizens, without asking us MPs for such a thing. That is why I wonder – how long will the National Assembly be a service to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and its ministries? The Law on Labour, which was passed on March 15th of this year, and these amendments to the Labour Act that we are discussing today, were written by those who, I am convinced, who have never done anything in their lives and have nothing to do with occupations. In order for someone to propose a law on work and its changes, he must have spent at least 20 years at the factory or that the factory gate had hit him on the back for 20 years. The labour law and its changes from workers make tenants in until yesterday to their factories. This labour law can be called a law on termination of work or a law that does not care about thousands of workers in Serbia who are left out of work and employment every day. I come from Kruševec, which was between fourth and sixth in 2000 for gross income, and in 2004 in 70 and some place; in 2000 there were 5,000 workers at the Bureau of Employment in Kruševec, and in 2004 there were 30,000 workers. You see what the Labour Act has done to the former DOS regime, and you know what fate the DOS has experienced. So I suggest you withdraw these changes to the Labour Act, to pass a new labour law. If you don't, you'll have the same fate as DOS. This government has to work, not decompose. Thousands of people are out of work. Thousands of people strike every day, she's unemployed, and perspective isn't offered. Every day, Kruševec workers ask themselves, "Zupa", "14 October", "Rubin" and others, they ask themselves young, educated and educated – whether we are going to Serbia or that, besides this government, we are going abroad. You can't go on with this government. Serbian citizens wonder how long we'll do that. This government must withdraw and resign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17745	Thank you, Mr. Duvnjak. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić and MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17746	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in December 2003, when elections for the Republic Assembly were held, all political parties criticised the Labour Act and the unionist Milovanovic, who was at the time a minister of labour, employment and social policy. However, he was a good fit, a majority student and the only reason he was a minister was because he was cousin of Djindjic. We expected that after the election there would be quality changes, but apparently SDP represents the continuity of the former and current authorities. At the time they participated in power and were in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and then Mr. Sabic Rodoljub was also an MP and minister of local self-government, as well as the current MP Slobodan Lalovic, who was confused when he came today, sat in the wrong order, and, at the suggestion of Mr. Predrag Markovic's Parliament, he realized that today is not a vote, because he only comes when he is due to vote for individual amendments, so he sat down in a place suggested by Mr. Predrag Markovic. However, I believe that Mr. Lalovic is really confused, because in a short period of time he has changed this law several times, probably because Natasa Milojevic is constantly behind him and is constantly trying to become minister instead of Mr. Lalovic. I guess that's why it leaves the impression that there's always something going on in his ministry that should simply remain in that position where he is, and in any case, he needs to be an MP, because in the SDP whether they don't have personnel, so they have to be MPs and ministers at the same time, or simply watch their backs; mandatory minister must also be an MP. It's a rule that's been going on for five years. To return to Article 10, which was mirrored by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Article 191 adds Article 4 which reads: "If the employer so requests, the court may refuse the employee's request to return to work, by having the employer liable to pay the employee the damages within the meaning of Articles 2 and 3 of this Article in a double amount". Then the minister gives an explanation why the amendment cannot be accepted – amendments to the Labour Act are necessary to remove the opposite of individual solutions in the Law that have occurred by adopting a number of amendments. So, the amendments that the MPs in the republic's parliament adopted now have the problem, so we need to amend the law that we adopted several months ago. So that's why we have to sit back and put the Labour Act on the agenda, because this is how we're going to remove unnecessary administrative procedures, and we're going to coordinate and specify the extent of individual employees' rights. Let's see how we can regulate and resolve these employee rights. Article 10 is replaced by the following: The law provides for the possibility that the employer, in proceedings before the court for the unlawful termination of a working relationship, shall require the court to reject the request of the employee to return to work, with the obligation of the employer to pay compensation to the employee for the loss of earnings, as well as other double incomes. We are going back to the original one again – that this very member of the law has mirrored the authorities. If the court makes a decision establishing that an employee has been illegally (repeated, illegal) ceased working relationship, the employee shall have the right to return to work if required. But Minister Lalovic doesn't have a right. For, in Article 191, it was defined that, in addition to returning to work, the employer was obliged to pay the employee the loss of earnings compensation, as well as other incomes belonging to him under the law, the general act, the labour contract and the payment of contributions for compulsory social security. The damages shall be reduced by the amount of income the employee has made on the basis of work, at the end of the working relationship. Now Minister Lalovic is adding a new position where he defines that if the employer requests it, the court can refuse the employee's request to return to work, with the employer being obliged to pay the employee a double amount of damage. It's a really big deal! It's not clear why. It is clear to us that there is no need, according to you, to be a meeting of the Republic Parliament, because simply executive power defines everything. In your image everything is defined – MP, minister, absolutely everything, the only problem is that you are not a judge, because if you were a judge, you could end up all alone without your colleagues. Because if a court makes a certain solution, why does it take us to define whether it's okay or not? If the judiciary is independent, there is a process, a worker who lost his job complains to the court, the court definitely has a judicial solution to deliver to a man who complained. What do we get in the end? In spite of that, the employer who fired the worker says – regardless of what I did illegally, regardless of what is not by law and by the Constitution, I don't want to take that worker back to work anymore, but simply, I'll pay him a double amount and that's fine. Mr. Minister, I'm asking you, is that okay? I'm sure none of the MPs, and the positions and the opposition, can say this is okay. If your later mind for these three months has shown that it's okay, I would ask you to come out and explain how you think you're defending this member of the law. And that a man who lost his job (beautifully potentiated – illegally stopped his work relationship), no matter how much he was without a salary he had to cope with, needed the existence of his family to ensure, to cope with that time period, to get a strong verdict, and despite what he got, he gets a double amount. Is that enough, is that fair? If millions of people lost their jobs due to unfair privatisation, due to reforms in banking, the military, it is obvious that everyone will be satisfied in this way. But if the SDP was an ex-government, it also makes the current government, I'm sure the future certainly won't work, even if these people came to it, and members of the former SPS who are now strengthening your strong personnel structure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17747	Thank you, Mr. Cvetanović. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, then Mr. Djidić, Mr. Milan Markovic, Mr. Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Djordjevic and Momir Markovic. I'm informing everyone that the microphones are working and you can freely use the microphone during exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17748	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, I will once again take the opportunity to say that it really does not remember that in such a short time one law has been before the MPs of the National Assembly twice. Do not remember that in less than two months we discussed the same law, amendments and additions to that law. We also hoped that when we got the changes and additions, the government would admit its mistake and correct in this proposal the facts that have been changed in an unauthorized way. I'll remind you, these unauthorized changes were related to the article. 105, 108, 118 and 188. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. The government has decided on a set of amendments to those members created as a result of the undisciplined behaviour of individual members of the coalition in power, as well as the obvious errors and surfaces of the Labour Bill that this assembly adopted just over two months ago. We've suggested, as a parliamentary group of DS, that article 10 be deleted. According to Article 191. The labour law, employees, on the basis of a judicial decision establishing an unlawful termination of employment, shall have the right, when required, to return to work, as well as the right to compensation for damages in the amount of lost earnings and other receipts. Deleting Article 10. The bill is proposed on the grounds that, contrary to the IOR Convention, 158 on the termination of the employment relationship on the employer's initiative, the work which regulates the appeal procedure for the termination of the employment relationship. Provisions of Art. 8 - 10. The Conventions have established the powers of the Court as an impartial body to examine the reasons for the termination of the working relationship and to decide independently when assessing the illegality of the termination of the employment relationship on the return of an employee to work and the determination of the obligation to pay compensation. In the implementation of this procedure, the national legislation of the employer may only undertake to bear the burden of proof that there is a valid reason for the termination of the employment relationship. This article provides that, at the request of the employer, the court may refuse an employee's request to return to work, by the employer being obliged to pay the employee, as I have already said, the compensation of the loss of earnings and other double incomes. Now, during the debate, an amendment has been accepted to pay the worker 36 earnings if the employer does not want to return it to work. We believe that this proposal has no excuse for at least three reasons. First, this provides for a basic rule of law that the removal of illegality is caused by the return of legality, i.e. the return to a situation that existed prior to the occurrence of the illegal act. Secondly, one of the fundamental constitutional rights, the right to work, is not respected in this way, and is trying to substitute it with the right to cash compensation. Thirdly, it opens up the possibility of employers to significantly manipulate and reduce labour in an illegal manner. For at least three of the reasons that we have mentioned, we believe that it is entirely justified to delete the article 10, so that there is no possibility of a series of abuses. So, for reasons why, if you can't get a social programme to fire workers, you can do it through the fact that you fire them, although there is no legal basis for it, that the court will pass a judicial verdict, that the worker doesn't want to voluntarily give up his right to work, and then there is a certain fee of 18 salaries per amendment accepted by the Government, but the employer says - no, I won't do you anyway, although you've got a judicial verdict. The employer can't change a judicial verdict, no one can change it. If the verdict exists, the employer has an obligation to return the worker to work. The only possibility that a worker, although there is a judicial verdict, does not return to work is his statement during the procedure that he does not want to return, but that he accepts the cash compensation in the amount I have been notified of the accepted amendment, of 18 salaries. This is one of the reasons why, I hope, i.e. I think the MPs of this Parliament will accept, because it is impossible and there is no positive regulation that can derivate this fundamental constitutional right – the right to work. The employer cannot, by paying 36 average salaries, simply undo what is in the Constitution, automatically annul a judicial verdict and put himself in command above all the institutions that exist in the state of Serbia. I hope that MPs, as several times so far, will use the democratic capacity of their mandate and decide that this amendment, submitted by the Democratic Party, will be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17749	The word has a folk MP, Miodrag Djidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17750	Mr. President, honourable ministers, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, Article 10 provides that the court, at the request of the employer, may refuse the employee's request to return to work, but it is left with the possibility that the employer, in the form of compensation, will pay him some amount of money, but what is important, the worker loses his job. What is hard to get today in a very easy way can be lost, and that is why the Democratic Party has proposed that article 10 be deleted. There are several reasons, and my predecessor, Ms. Snezana Lakicevic-Stojacic, spoke of them, but I will repeat those reasons, because I think they are very important and I think they can influence the ruling coalition's MPs in voting day for this DS amendment. So, most importantly, the Constitution guarantees the right to work, and this way, the right to work is put practically out of force and I think this is an anti-constitutional category and that, if adopted like this, the Constitutional Court will have work to do and that it will have to repeal this member. So the basic right is the right to work. This allows the employer to say goodbye at any time when someone does not like it. The second reason is that this is an illegal decision, and that decision cannot, even by the court's decision, return to some vomit of legality, which is precisely the purpose of the court's proceedings, to correct the illegality that is obvious. In this way, unfortunately, this is not possible, because an employer can cancel a worker for any reason by paying off a cash amount, and that is today a right that is very difficult to obtain. Thirdly, it opens up the possibility for an employer to simply fire a worker through various manipulations without any explanation, he simply doesn't like that worker working anymore, wants to bring in a younger worker or any other reason. It seems to me that this government has no ability, opportunity and solutions to address one of the most difficult issues in Serbia today, and that is the issue of a large number of unemployed workers. More than a million people are waiting for work today, and instead of allowing workers to get to work as soon as possible, it allows workers to lose their jobs as soon as possible. That's the intensity of this government. The minister belongs to the SDP and I can cheer up the workers there. So if you want to get to work, join the SDP, it'll be easier to get to work and there are examples for that. On the other hand, if you have directors who are not members of the SDP and people are doing their jobs well, they will either join the SDP or they will not be able to be directors, no matter how high-quality they do their job, but that is why whoever joins the SDP, even if he is a trainee, will become the director of important state institutions. For that I have an x example, and I don't want to call it here right now and name names, but in my town of Krusevec it is very well known, people became very easy to become directors just because they joined the SDP. I believe that when the day comes for the vote, we will vote to delete this, because it is in the interest of most people in Serbia, but I also believe that it will not come from the moment the amendment is adopted in the Serbian Parliament until the moment it comes to the signing of the president of Serbia to "legal-technical editorial" so that the essence of the law is changed, and instead of what we have adopted here, the president has a completely different text of the law. I believe this time it will not happen and that the President of the Assembly will take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17751	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic, and then the MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17752	Here, I don't know, Minister, who wrote this to you, but whoever wrote it, if he's from the Ministry, feel free to fire him. You won't make a mistake, this is a crown example of the ignorant. In our theory, and not only ours, but also the one that applies in the European Union and in other countries, when it comes to working disputes, there are two systems. One system where in court and court proceedings value the legality of the act of the employer's competent authority, so as a result of the Court's finding that the act is illegal by logic of things goes to what the Constitution and the law guarantee as a human right – the right to work. I have to say that there are systems where these disputes are those other kind of disputes, where the prosecutor asks the court of the defendant, or the employer, to commit to some act. You have managed to mix the first and second concepts that are mutually opposed in the position of the first member. It has never occurred in our legislation that one member begins with such non-buloses: "If the court makes a judicial decision", I do not know which other authority would exercise judicial authority but a court, and only a judicial decision commits, produces a fact. You're still saying, "which found that the employee illegally discontinued his employment... "So, the dispute over the legality of the act. What goes on -- "the employee has the right to return to work", he asked for it, his appeal is to return to work, "if so. "Where's that Albian guy? Are you still testing? Test this. The crown of this unsuspecting member is the final attitude. Imagine now which inversion. It is said: "If the employer so requests, the court may refuse the employee's request to return to work", although it has been proven in the first position or already found that his employment relationship has been unlawfully stopped, meaning that he is unlawfully valued as a jute, he can, he cannot, "with the employer's obligation to pay the employee the damages in terms of Articles 2 and 3 of this article in double amount. "You've got two theories wrong again. You have now given the right to choose the means of execution to the future debtor, the employer, not the trustee, the employee who conducted the procedure and won the dispute. The employee who ran the dispute and got the verdict should return, he can choose the means of execution. No, you gave the debtor the right to choose the means of execution and one of them is the right to commit, and the other is the human right. I don't know what that Balinian's doing. He's got to tear this up. Have you contacted the Justice Department? Why didn't you ask Rasim Ljajic? He is a dentist, but he knows better human rights than those who wrote you this. This is impossible. Take that Zoran Ivosevic, your judge, he would laugh at you if he read what you wrote. There are two concepts when it comes to work and working relationship: there is this social socialist concept of human rights and there is a concept where work is treated as an input, as a cost, as something that goes into production, and depending on which concept the legal solutions are dictated by the state and the legal nature of individual solutions is given and thus defines the legal fact of certain decisions. You got everything confused under that first law when it changed in 2001, the one from Thessaloniki when it was voted, it was some bill of 1848. Please don't. Why didn't you ask someone in the Supreme Court if this was possible? Why didn't you look at the Serbian Supreme Court's views on the termination of the working relationship, on the legal importance of the court's decisions, on the legal action of the court's decisions. Why didn't you do it? Now you've brought this down to some claim where the alternative choice falls on the debtor, not on the trustee. You've come up with something completely new that legal theory can't even stand.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17753	The word is made by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17754	Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is necessary today, however, when we discuss amendments and whenever Mr. Lalovic is present to remind the public, the National Assembly and the President of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the People's Assembly of a kind of scandal that took place in the adoption of the Labour Act, which refers to a reasonable suspicion that the counterfeiting of certain provisions has been carried out, i.e. the change in the will of the Members of the People's Parliaments, when sending this proposal to the President of the Republic for signature. You know that the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic refused to sign the text sent to him. I'm deliberately saying the text, because in a formal sense it wasn't the law, it didn't go through the legal procedure. After that, Mr Lalovic gave himself the right to call it political propaganda in several interviews on television and via other means of information. It was not political propaganda, it was only an attempt to stop further erosion of the National Assembly and the institutions of this state and to contribute as much as possible to the establishment of a rule of law in Serbia. I think there are many violations not only of parliamentary practice, but also of many acts that have violated parliamentaryism and compromised the institutions of the system in Serbia, and there have been many over the last 15 years, this may be one of the most dramatic examples. After the Constitutional Court has declared that, of course, it will be stated first whether this was in accordance with the Constitution, the procedure, or not in accordance with the Constitution, it will be decided by the Court of Justice and will be questioned whether there is a criminal liability. In any case, if nothing else, I think it was politically wise not to do it, but simply, in the Rules of Procedure, to wait and vote the Labour Act, as after only three months we discuss the law. So, as vice president of the National Assembly and the People's MP in the second term, I feel the need to point to this opportunity, if for no other reason than to allow ourselves, as MPs, no matter what parties we belong to, to compromise this high house. First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction with the fact that Mr. Lalovic is present at this debate, because we as MPs are faced with a kind of arrogance of ministers in the government of Vojislav Kostunica. As you know, in previous days many of the laws have been on the agenda, i.e. many amendments have passed here, we have made different arguments, but no minister has granted us his presence and in this sense I welcome Mr. Lalovic's presence, but I would like to stress right away – as something quite normal in a democratic state. So, the matter relates to Article 10, which, by accepting the amendments of my colleague Omerovic, has changed somewhat, but I will explain to you why we have responded to this Article 10. And, I have to agree with my predecessor, I think Mr. Lalovic in his ministry has some problems with interpreting rights, with legal regulations and with our country's legal system. This is not the first law where we have very serious objections to the legality and constitutionality of the regulations offered here. In particular, Article 10 provides that the court may refuse to request the employee to return to work, with the employer being obliged to pay the employee compensation for damages within the meaning of Articles 2 and 3 of this Article in a double amount. Initially, before accepting the amendments of fellow Omerovic, this literally meant the following: any employer in Serbia for any reason to cancel any worker, the worker initiates a work dispute, the employer admits the claim and says – yes, I illegally fired a man, no problem, I'll give him a double salary, there is so much compensation for that one month and good-bye. So this is the way the working relationship is stopped as Mr Lalovic imagined it, probably in line with the Social Democratic Party programme, which of course has nothing to do with any social democratic idea. So, initially, that meant it, and I would just like the minister himself to explain to us whether it was an idea or whether this was simply a failure to write this article. So, I repeat, under Article 10, as proposed in this law, any employer in Serbia can fire a worker, immediately acknowledge the claim that the damage would be less, this one gets a confession based on recognition, and with that verdict he can take two envelopes of maybe 10,000 dinars and go home to his wife and children to say - I no longer have a job. The acceptance of Mr. Omerovic's amendments has changed somewhat, it is the cost of more damages, but it is still illegal and anti-constitutional termination of employment. I will allow myself to tell Mr. Lalovic that working disputes are the only disputes where, if you do not make a return to work as your request, and even in the judgment, when the judge prescribes your claim, the verdict says, paragraph 1 – it is binding, etc., even if he leaves out that the employer undertakes to return you to work means returning to work. It's the only case when returning to work implies, in a sentence of judgment. In all other cases, what it says in the sentence of judgment, it is; neither worse nor down. This is the only place where the right is always greater than what it says in the sentence of judgment. It's not an accident. It is precisely because the right to work is one of the fundamental rights of man and by the Constitution guaranteed right. So if we wanted to make it easier for employers to break up work, then that's what we should have said here openly. But, in this way, predict that an illegal act on the termination of a working relationship, which may have a shortage of different types, will be consolidated by paying off certain money, practically, bribering that worker, not only is it immoral or perhaps incorrect in this way, to come before the MPs and the public, but it is simply illegal and serious to question a working relationship. Let's look at every MP here, who was, of course, before he became a National MP, employed anywhere. He worked fair, full-time, all the grades at work were satisfactory, he never committed any violations of labour discipline, he may have been the best worker in the company, and he has a private conflict with the employer. Now, when this is adopted by Minister Lalovic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the company's best worker, if anything his boss has against him, will get fired, receive 36 salaries and end his career, at least in the company. In Serbia to find a job... Maybe he's 40 or 50, at that age to find a job again, that's a big problem. So I think that you should give up on this member of the law, I think that the National Assembly should accept this amendment, that the National Assembly must not allow this to be established as a rule with us, because we will have mass layoffs on different grounds, which have nothing to do with work discipline or work performance, and that these people will get some sum of money. Imagine that you are an employer in a company where the average salary of 10,000 dinars means something over 100 euros, and you say – this gentleman from that party and that party don't like it, I don't like that he's a member of that party and here's his cancellation. He goes to court, starts a work dispute, we send our lawyer and the lawyer says - we admit the lawsuit, it's illegal to quit, but we don't want to take him to work, here's 3,600 euros, so you see with your wife and kids where you're going, but you don't have a job anymore. That is the meaning of what Mr Lalovic, SDP and the government of Vojislav Kostunica are proposing. So, we remain in this article that, regardless of the correction of that amendment, it cannot be accepted. We find it unconstitutional, illegal and, in the end, I say again, immoral and inappropriate in the situation in which our country is located. Finally, in order not to have all the criticism, besides welcoming Mr. Lalovic's presence in this debate, I would like to thank you for answering the parliamentary question I asked 10-15 days ago. I am pleased with the answer to the parliamentary question, although I do not think it is necessary for one minister to have 10 assistants, but if sectors are divided in this way, ultimately, the government's own organization is a matter of government, a matter of prime minister and minister, but then don't say it's the most economical government, because we're going to get into a situation that this government has, in fact, hundreds of officials. In any case, I finally appeal to the ruling coalition MPs to accept Mrs. Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić's amendment and reject this proposal to amend and supplement the Labour Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17755	The word has Minister Lalovic. Otherwise, workers went home after Matkovic's 2001 law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17756	I'll comment on a few things. I think it's a matter of critical objections to the proposed amendments to the law. When it comes to giving blood, which was a lot of talk, when we talk about it at the level of arguments, then the observation that it's not a good proposal for us and that it should stay for three days doesn't stand, for a few reasons. In fact, you won't find such a solution anywhere, except in this country from a time of socialist self-management. Since these circumstances and times are changing, we have to change, according to me, and those institutes that are obsolete. Another important thing, because of the assembly committee that had a debate on this, since it was a conversation – if it was cut people won't give blood, I took data from five months from 2004 and five months from 2005, since this "great", "wide" amendment of three days was adopted. So I can inform the people's MPs and the public of Serbia, if someone is watching this, that there is a reduced blood supply in the period when this "great" member who has been adopted here since three days of absence is in use. So there's no direct connection, and thank God there isn't, because those who give blood do it from completely different initiatives, not to get some days. What my colleague said, that it says it's not a disease, so he laughed, what he means to say is that he who gives blood is a healthy man. These famous days, they're all used to a lot of days here, it's something that's completely insane, but even though it's all insane, I'm stressing it out for the public, because it's going to all be relatively quickly lifted, the whole approach, whatever you're talking about. It's simply a matter that the state will take over on itself, not employers with days off, that such a thing they convalitate and pay, it's completely abnormal. In view of what's been said here, we have reached an agreement to accept it for two days, which has been accepted as an interregion on the assembly board, but I am informing the public that this whole story will almost be changed and that it will not be changed at all. This is what I wanted to say, that it has nothing to do with these hearty statements. So there's no connection between the number of days and the number of blood donors. I think the problem is a completely different nature and a much deeper nature. If we're going to talk about why there's not enough blood, then we need to talk about solidarity, about the system of values in Serbia, about what went wrong, not how many days it takes for a man to go home when he gives blood. So, I'm informing the public that we've accepted on the assembly board that it's two days, not one or three, but I'm saying what's going to happen next, that we know, that we're not fooling ourselves about it. As for the story of maternity leave, also heartwarming stories here, in due time, when this law was discussed in the Assembly, I have shown exact data that at a time when this provision existed in the 1990s, this giving of a third, fourth child for so many years, unfortunately, a significant decrease in the number of such cases in the period when this "great" provision and this "great" relief was present. I'm afraid so. So there is a problem of a completely different nature, and this is not how the story should be used because of the public, and it has nothing to do with the reality of Serbia and the phenomenon of the white plague in Serbia. Unfortunately, giving that age does not improve anything. The exact data suggests that, unfortunately, the number of such cases is reduced. As you know, there is a very white plague in Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia, unlike such an approach that is partially present here, a demagogue approach, because it has nothing to do with reality, I call it demagogy, we propose a series of measures, including amendments to the Law on Financial Support for the Family, which will really achieve the effects of trying to stop the white plague in Serbia. Because if this continues, in 20-30 years we will solve the biological problem of unemployment and other problems, because there will be no people and there will be no people. But it will not help demagogy, but rather something to do with the government of the Republic of Serbia in this regard. Let me just add, because of Serbia's public, that the government has accepted the amendment of the Subcommittee on Labour on the fact that this right to leave has been for two years for mothers and for each of the next children after the fourth child. We accepted it for the fifth and sixth children. Unfortunately, that right will have little to use. That sounds nice. I get to know the public that the Committee of Government has accepted the amendment that this right applies to each of the next children after the fourth child. As for this "removed" work that was mentioned here, I agree with a fellow MP who said it was a category of past characteristic of social property. I'm making amazing circumstances, I'm saying as freely as I see it, here in March of this year, that deceased category was returned to the law; unfortunately it was returned, and I'm guessing it's almost gone from the legal system, because it's impossible that there's a category that's natural to social property and the whole madness that we've had. At this point, that's the situation, and we've proposed to define the level of rights that's been present here for years when it existed, and that's actually 0.5 of the net earnings. It was converted in 2001 into 0.4 out of gross, because it was a conversion, it was the same amount of money. We do nothing else, just define the level of law that has been present in Serbia for years. As regards minimum earnings and minimum earnings stories, the Law and International Conventions have defined what are the elements to be taken into account when defining minimum earnings. According to the Labour Act and according to international conventions that regulate it, we tripartitely mean representatives of the government, union representatives and employers every six months negotiate, negotiate and define a level of minimum earnings. The minimum earnings for the period until the end of the year amounted to 41 dinar per hour have recently been defined. That was arranged a week ago. It is simply in line with certain international standards, where more elements are taken into account, from the level of unemployment, to the level of social product, to the level of profit in one country. So there are a number of elements that, in accordance with international conventions, serve us here to work through tripartism, and according to the Labour Act, establish minimum earnings every six months. Now, like I said, it's 41 dinar per hour. The next one will be negotiated in January 2006, i.e. at the end of December, for the next six months, and this is the mechanism when we talk about minimum earnings. What was also present here, and now especially in these comments on Article 10, so we, meanwhile, adopted the amendment of counterpart Omerovic, where we now fully regulate that matter. When I say comprehensively, this means that this means that we are creating a legal possibility that when a court is held in a court of law between a worker and an employer, a worker can say and ask, so he must ask the court that when a court makes a decision and if the court defines that the resignation was illegal, that, at the same time, if the court considers it an application for a worker not to return to work. That's what the court adopts or doesn't adopt. If the court adopts such a request and a proposal by workers, then, according to the adopted amendment of counterpart Omerovic, the employer is obliged to pay him up to 18 earnings. That's one side of the medal. The other side of the medal is: it also takes a dispute, the employer shall address the court and should give established reasons to convince the court that there are such strong reasons that if the court decides that the dismissal is illegal then it may make a decision or adopt the employer's request not to return to work, and in that case it shall be paid no more than 18 times two, 36 earnings. It's a comprehensive solution that was adopted here through the amendment. Tom, of course, precedes what has failed to comment here. Of course, the regime remains - if neither one, nor the employer nor the worker, does not ask the court for such a thing to apply previous views, that the court will make a decision, return the worker to work, define the compensation of the damage and end it all. What we are proposing here, and I hope that the Assembly will adopt, is in line with the Convention of the International Labour Organisation, which Mrs Snezana Lakicevic-Stojacic mistakenly mentioned. She quoted the Convention and what she was quoting was actually the basis for what we had introduced into the law, and it was the basis for her to challenge what we had introduced into the law. So I would simply suggest, when you comment on something to be carefully read. That's the minimum I think should be there. So this solution that has caused so many reactions and the debate is something that is quite normal, usually in all normal countries or in 95 percent of normal countries. This proposal we made here also suggests that interested persons look at the parallel experience of how it is regulated in other European countries, and that they eventually make certain comments or certain valuable courts to make. What is the essence of this solution – it is a new and as a new solution for us always causes resistance, all that is new causes resistance – is one simple idea. Why is that in these countries? Because in practice they've seen, in life, we're just making that system now. They, thank God, have had that system for decades or centuries behind us, and we've had a nadal system for more than half a century. What did they see? That there's simply a series of situations where a worker, because he's not in his interest, won't go back to that employer, because if he goes back to that private employer, he's going to harass him again, he's going to drive him away or whatever. Simply, it is one situation in practice that exists and therefore there is the possibility that the worker will say – I will not go back to work, but if I do not want to go back to work, then you have to pay me so much and so much money, which is a lot more than real payout, which is well commented here by some MPs that it is possible to recognise the appeal request for 15 days and that suggestion is fine. That's why we intervened here and then it's worth 30 days. We've made it very clear here, because it's about 18 profits. And, of course, the other side of the medal: there is a situation, although I know that no one for this speaker will admit it to gain some political points, when there are also fully established reasons why an employer should not return someone to work. In that situation, and if it's done, some failure made, it's said here that the court appreciates it all the time. So it can't be decided by the employer, as the worker can't decide not to return, but rather to give convincing reasons to the court and if the court is convinced that these reasons are convincing and established, then he can say in his decision which in the dispute also does not return, but then he gets double compensation for the damages 18 times two, 36 earnings and so on. So it's just the logic of a member. Of course, it's legitimate to argue. I just point out the need when something is commented that it's not bad for a few people to get to know the practice, how it's done in other countries, how it's regulated in other countries. Since mostly I wouldn't say that there are some serious amendments, there's just one more thing I'd like to say. Here again, which is legitimate, uses a pay phone for attacks on the government, for a general political story, etc. It's common, as I see it, practice here. So, I would like to point out, however, that this Government of the Republic of Serbia for its mandate, as regards Serbia's position as a state, has achieved – I am speaking on this international plan, where it is unbiased, is another thing where we are talking about – so it has provided for this country a positive assessment of the feasibility study, has provided for this country to start negotiations on the conclusion of an association and stabilisation agreement with the EU in October, it has provided, for various reasons, and it is very interesting that in both ways the reasons are interesting, for example, that the Serbian economy, which has a major external deficit, can export 4,600 products without customs, which creates space to reduce external trade deficits, but I would point to another point. The results achieved in the work also improve Serbia's international position on several key issues. One question is Kosovo and Metohija, the other is the issue of Montenegro and the fate of the state community. These are issues and problems that, thanks to Serbia's improved international position, we have a chance to resolve in our best interest. If all of this is ignored in some way, there is nothing I can say, except that it would be good for the citizens of Serbia, for their own interests and their reasons, to know what is actually going on and what is happening in this country. I think these successes, which for this country and this people are of capital importance, are something that is in every case in the best interests of citizens, and when we talk about other things, there is a whole other dimension. So Serbia simply has no alternative, but to go towards the European Union, to join the European Union. All what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing is actually on that path. I think all the other stories that are being told about it are declassified stories. There was a problem of unemployment, you're firing, you're not firing, it's about the Labour Act. Don't let us go back to the same story – when there are 700,000 people out of work in this country, in what period. In a period that you all know. So what we do is create conditions where this biggest Serbian problem, which is unemployment, will be solved. How will he be resolved? By creating regulations and conditions in Serbia to increase direct investment in the Serbian economy. Anyone acting, and through legislation, on the contrary, is actually doing the opposite of the interests of all Serbian citizens. What are the standards and regulations? Don't pretend we don't know – these are standards and regulations that mean standardisation with European Union regulations. That is what we are doing, and I am sure, regardless of the expectations of another nature, that we will succeed in taking decisive steps towards Serbia's membership in the European Union, whether someone wants it or not. This includes these amendments to the Labour Act, as well as a series of other laws that you will receive in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17757	Of course, Minister, I completely agree with you, when comments are made, the law needs to be read, but even when comments are made, words should be chosen. And in that socialist self-management you're talking about, there were almost two million employees, and millions of apartments were divided, like it or not. You now create a new system in which two million employees will be in Serbia and millions of apartments divided, and then say that it is not madness but that it was madness. Until the new system divides a million apartments and employs two million people... And then the people lived well, and they wouldn't accept that it was madness back then. If it was crazy for you, you shouldn't have lived in that country. (Employer Cvetkovic, from the place: What is madness? What does madness mean? Mr Cvetkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, the chairman has an obligation to the one who discusses and uses words that are not worthy of this parliament to warn. I was correct not to interrupt the minister but to say that after his exposure, that the words "mad" and similar cannot be used in the Assembly. Thank you, Mr. Cvetkovic, for your warning. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17758	I reported on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party for Replica, as the minister has repeatedly used the word demagogy, clearly joining the SRS and our amendments. Meso, I understand you, you have your minister, so he tells you, you write the amendment and he adopts it and the Assembly doesn't know that you've agreed. That's all social democracy can do. There's an offensive way of using the word "demagogy" here. For the first time, it has been used for the initiative on how long it takes to take a leave of absence on the basis of voluntary blood donation. The minister came out and said that data from 1993, 1994, when he compared them, showed that there was no increase in the number of blood donors due to the law. We never claimed that this law increased the number of voluntary blood donors. He said it was something insignificant. If it's meaningless, why don't you take it? If it's so insignificant, why all those years didn't bother? Another example of demagogy is when he compared maternity leave and childcare leave for the third, fourth and next children, where two years earlier was prescribed. So he said there was no increase in birth rate and it was meaningless. If it's insignificant, why is it resisting? Isn't that demagogy, resisting something that's insignificant? The highlight of his demagogy is - both rights should come out of the labour law and be in another regulation, but they are still hiding it, they are not ready to propose it. Why didn't you suggest it? Then no one would use demagogy in any way. That's really amazing. He has an incredible ability to turn everything around. You saw for yourself, he finished his study on meeting the conditions, about joining, blah, blah, blah, blah, and finally said something you can't find in Serbia a man who would confirm it. He was talking about some madness, and he forgot to just say that during that period, the International Labour Organisation put the former SFRY first, as the state that cares most about human rights and employees' rights. Why didn't he tell the truth? The whole world has confessed. I understand the situation when from one socio-economic system goes into another, but I can't understand that those who exercise power don't have a vision of what it's supposed to look like. They have no idea how much it costs. They have no vision of how painful it is for some categories of people, so we are given some lectures about what he and Meho agreed on whether the fee would be 17 or 34 salaries. What do we care what you in your Social Democracy have agreed? As far as we're concerned, you don't even have to exist. But these dissonant tones in relation to the ruling coalition only show that you are still ready for the behavior that was present in 2003, so you are still leaving. You will probably now, at the end of the ballad, stab the knife in the back of this coalition, as you did in the previous one, both you and Covic. The same players are back together. Here it is, Covic has now become Serbia's largest patriot. He changed the record already in January or February 2004, and remember, all who warned that the rights of Serbs had been trampled in Kosovo and Metohija, he said they were extremists or dogs of war, and now he uses those words. For the first time, he said everyone had to go to the elections, and last time he said, "No, the conditions for the elections are not met." They're your converters. That's the social democracy. We're fighting as Social Democrats, which is why they're famous in Western Europe. The greatest evidence of this demagogy is that the minister escaped. We have three more amendments, remind him to come back. If he's nervous, if he doesn't like to listen to this discussion, it's his problem, but if he wants to go out with the facts to challenge some amendment, not this way to be rude.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17759	I thank Mr. Krasic. You had three minutes, but since you used the replica and those three minutes, I allowed five minutes, so I took care of it. Mr. Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17760	It's not right for Mr. Secretary to come out. It's not right, because he's had one longer exposure and he's used some false and half-truths in that exhibit. So again I want to say, the minister did not explain what led him and the government of the Republic of Serbia to propose what was proposed in this amendment to the Labour Law, in Article 10. We asked the minister if it was the government's view of the Republic of Serbia and its party or whether it was a mistake. I remind you, because of the citizens and your MPs, under Article 10 proposed by the government, it was enough to fire someone, admit the lawsuit, give them two salaries and throw them out on the street. According to the Social Democratic Party Mecca Omerovic's amendment, which was accepted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is also possible, but 18 to 36 salaries are paid. We are looking for an answer to the question whether it is the idea of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and how social problems will be solved when thousands of people are fired by getting 18 or 36 salaries, about two to three thousand euros, and going home to both women and children – I no longer have a job. That is the essence of what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing. Instead, the minister addressed some other issues in his answer. He was engaged in Serbia's international position. I'll tell you something - and Slobodan Milosevic was clapping the international community when he did things that were appropriate to them, but ended up in The Hague. Serbia's international position is much worse than it was during the DOS government and you all know it. As far as Kosovo is concerned, I don't know why the minister mentions it. The Republika Srpska government's policy in Kosovo was missed the day Vojislav Kostunica urged Serbs not to go to the Kosovo and Metohija elections. You all know that. You all know that today no one knows how to get out of the fungi that we've fallen into for not participating in the temporary institutions of Kosovo and Metohija. And this has something to do with this law? Mr. Angelkovic, come down for the pay phone tonight and say something. What kind of way is that? You've been discussing it from above all the time as chairman. Come down here, say what you want, have someone replace you. I just want to get you back on the subject, Mr. Markovic. The theme is the answer to everything the minister said. So, the minister mentions Serbia-Montenegro. What are the successes of the government of the Republic of Serbia in relation to Serbia-Montenegro, except for further tightening of relations, corruption of relations with Montenegro, some int or don't know what third. The minister mentioned a feasibility study. That feasibility study even has Albania. That's what we need to tell this people. Albania too has a feasibility study. Whoever was in power over the last year and a half, we'd get a feasibility study. It wasn't a feasibility study because Vojislav Kostunica turned that "nineth hole on the playing" and started blowing upside down in that same play, so now The Hague became his first "hole on the playing". That's not why we got a feasibility study. It has been won because of everything that has been done since 2000, because it is the interest of the international community and Europe to integrate Serbia into the EU. That's why we got a feasibility study. One more thing to tell you: when you came to power, you didn't care much about the international community, you didn't care about The Hague, the United States, anything. But now that we have a decline in social product in Serbia, when we have inflation that will exceed 15%, when we have a drop in standard of living, it's not what we're talking about now. When we have corruption and crime, we don't talk about it anymore. We have a feasibility study. It's not a study of ablation for bad politics. Therefore, I would ask the chairman to ask Mr. Minister, if he wants to replicate the MPs in this room, to be dignified and wait for our answer to what he said. Once again, we have not received a quality response regarding the amendment to Article 10, which we are asking for to be deleted. How will the minister explain to those who are fired tomorrow because of political inadequacy, because of some blackmails that may be unprincipled, how he will explain to people when they are given 2,000 euros in hand and said – go home. That's what the minister needs to explain here. How did he introduce such a quitting system in Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17761	Thank you, Mr. Markovic, I've given you 4.10 minutes. Does anyone else want a word without taking advantage of the right of MPs? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic. Since this amendment, with a correction, has been adopted by the Government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment, with correction, has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. I thank you, Mr. Omerovic. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17762	This Article 11. The bill is interesting and I call on all those who deal with professionally human rights, so judges, prosecutors, political parties, professors, to interpret what the government has proposed. Article 11. The draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act reads: "Employed woman who started using maternity leave in accordance with Article 94. The labour law... "that's the one three months ago that after the failed forgeries was confirmed again, "until the day of entry into force of this law," when you vote him, "he continues to exercise the right to maternity leave and leave for child care in accordance with the provisions of that member." That's for the third, fourth kid. So, those women who have given birth in a period of, you probably know, a date, it seems to me that on March 25, 2005 until the date of entry into force of this law, they use the right to Article 94, and that right is recognised to their father. Those families, or women born after the entry into force of this law, do not have the right until 31 December of this year. So, since you will vote these laws on Friday (here you put – the next day of the day of publication), it is theoretically possible that this law and those women who are working in a working relationship, who are born and are given a third child, will not be allowed to take effect on Monday. The only difference is that in 2005, one woman came into labor after the law came into force, and another one before the law was passed. Something like this can't happen. It's about human rights. If by any chance it were a material giving, a claim, under certain conditions, this provision might exist, but that is also a question, if it is a new view of rights which do not disturb the right acquired. That's very interesting. This provision is legally impossible. The Constitutional Court would have to, in its official capacity, if this member passes this way, launch the initiative, adopt a solution, initiate the procedure and carry out the evaluation of Article 11 of this proposal. Because no one can explain what the difference is. Why? Because the government did not like that the MPs decided in March of this year; it amends the law, so those who have exercised the right under that law do not touch it, and these amendments of the law have been given the right under Article 94a, but it has only been applied since 1 January of the following year. What's the difference? If you have confirmed by this law the same right that existed under the law of March of the month, why are you making this period of several months to deny the right of some women who will be born during this period, to have a third or fourth child and to meet the conditions for this right? This isn't a human member, that's what I have to tell you. This article is not human, because it makes a difference. Explain to every single writing man, explain to the women who work in the same office, one is born today, and the other is born on Tuesday; and one is given a third child; this one, because three days earlier, is used for maternity leave of two years, and this one cannot. This provision of Article 94 shall only apply from 1 January of the following year. So, it's true for women who have had a third or fourth child since January. Why are these women being punished? Why are those pregnant women being punished from Monday, I don't know what date it is, until December 31st? So, all those employed, born third or fourth children from July 18th to December 31st, are punished. From who? They were punished by Lalovic, Kostunica, Mladjan Dinkic. Why? Because they are angry, since the National Assembly passed one law, Markovic could not forge that provision, and they excavate their anger. According to who? This is where they talk about some of our god-awful demagogy. Explain to me, please, which mind could come up with this. If you have installed Article 94a in this law and you are saying that it is exactly the same and contains everything in the existing article 94 and you have legally-technically arranged it, why are you discriminating one category of employees? No one has authorized you to discriminate. I must tell the MPs that all acts of discrimination are forbidden. If you do not adopt this amendment, you have made a discrimination against one category of residents in this country. Take care of what you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17763	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17764	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the distinguished Madam of the Ministry of Labour, the argument offered by counterpart Zoran Krasic is logical and surprising that the Secretariat for the Law of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Legislative Committee of the National Assembly of Serbia have accepted such a possible member of the amendment and addition of this law. Apart from his confusion, he is practically in everything Mr Krasic spoke of depicts what were arguments. We will consult on this amendment and it is not impossible to accept it, because the laws must be clear, understandable, all citizens must treat it the same way. They can't be discriminatory, and they can't, in any way, produce bad consequences for someone, and for someone, they have a real something that is in this sense profit. This is exactly what would happen if this article was accepted in this way by Mr Krasic. There were other topics here. Many here tonight have been calling for the ugly consequences of privatisation, and I only remind all those who sent and constitutionalised Serbia's parliament: the Socialist Party of Serbia did not vote, the only party who did not vote for the Privatisation Act and the only party who did not vote for the Labour Law proposed by Mrs Gordana Matkovic. I simply draw attention to those in Serbia who post-festum remember that some rights, workers' rights, pensioners and others are threatened, that they do so on time. We take the apology in the ballot box, it can start tomorrow, no problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17765	Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17766	Dear colleagues, this session is coming to an end. The minister's gone. It wouldn't be a problem that he left, we're used to that kind of thing, but there's one thing that really bothers him: he managed to insult everything in order and then he ran away. It can't be like that. Elemental human honesty doesn't allow that. If you want to listen to someone's criticism and answer with an argument, then don't run away. Or don't talk, because it's a better and fairer solution. Our President of the Assembly often says that we are a congregation that has worked very hard and passed many laws. Here's one that shows what the laws are. Not to say that only 30% of the laws represent amendments to previous laws that have been passed and have two members, because we are constantly changing legislation. This Europe is constantly changing and we can never catch that step, and then from day to day we have to keep changing something to get into that Europe. And this member who's here can be seen to be the bad changes we're suggesting. What does Article 12 say? I will read this: "Article 118(5) and (6) of the Labour Act cease to apply on the date of entry into force of this law, and will apply from 1 January 2006. "So, two provisions are lifted, and it says so - they are not valid, but will apply from January 1st. A strange law, which restricts the validity of one of its provisions in its two attitudes and then says, as of January 1st, it will be able to do so. Then he goes on to say, "Article 120(2) and (3) of the Labour Act ceases to apply on 1 January 2006. "Let's look at these members, what they say. Article 118 says this - employees have the right to compensate for the costs in accordance with the general act and contract of work, so we list and get to 5) and 6) – to eat during work and regress for the use of annual holidays. Article 120 says this - a general act, i.e. a contract on work, can determine the right to a jubilee prize and solidarity aid, a food allowance during work, a regression for the use of annual vacations. Two members say the same thing, except there's a commitment, and here you can see the law. A senseless law, which provides different opportunities in two of its members, is one obligation, and another is the possibility and now we are told – let's delete this. We can play with legislation, we can wipe this out, but it remains what's unclear: why is this time limit unimportant from here, what's being bridged here? In an explanation, if it's read, and I know that everyone's read the explanations, now we've been given intensive work by this Rules of Procedure, everyone's read it and it's said in an explanation like this... Repeat the terms of the article, take an explanation, don't say anything at all, I won't read. I'll just read the first part, he says, "Article 12 provides for the provisions of Article 118. 5) and 6) of the Labour Act, which lays down the right of an employee to receive a food allowance in the course of work and to regress for the use of annual leave, shall cease to apply on the date of entry into force of this law and shall apply from 1 January 2006. "What kind of explanation is that? Repeated what he said in his statement of change, there is no explanation. It can't. There's an axiom in math, so it doesn't prove itself. If that's what you meant and you gave him that meaning of the axiom, then you shouldn't have written this argument, it's so clear. I have plenty of time, but you don't. What is the problem here and must be said – if you want to end, even in limited time, diet, regression... That MP group is saying something about its time and thinking and something collectively agreed that it's their time, and I agree that your time is up, but I have another 10 minutes, just for your information. There's one more reason besides this; two are the principal reasons why we won't agree to abolish the regression and abolish the right to compensation for the diet. The first is moral, and that applies to you who are here. We all receive this material fee in this congregation to eat, I won't tell the citizens how much we receive. Are we going to give up the right to eat, not just take it, because we have good incomes. So when foreign delegations come here and conduct negotiations with our congregation bodies and respected members of the Assembly who are here on permanent work, these members take the diaries. Let's go a little further, some members are going to Budva and they're also taking diaries for some activities, I don't know which of these congregations. Can MPs call on this to deny workers and employees the right to a warm meal, to eat, and to use these privileges in this way abundantly when it comes to us? That's what I'm asking you, it's my morale. What's more important than that morale, it doesn't have to be accepted that it's a moral category, solidarity with the people, even though people have chosen us and people have chosen us. The second thing is this: that there are not a million unemployed in this country and there are no 25% in this country, by the least estimated, poor, means we don't have that many poor people, I might say this is unnecessary. In this country, many do not have the kind of nutrition that is necessary, and you know what the average personal income is. Now you're going to take the poorest team in this way to get an extra chance to get some more dinars. I know well that most of those who take the regress will not go to sea and go on vacation, but will send their children. So that's what we're going to do, and that's why we won't agree to bring something like this. When NATO started bombing our country and the bombings in Novi Sad and the refinery began, I thought the devil had taken the joke, and as a reason it was cited as a humanitarian disaster in Kosovo. When innocent victims fell, just to mention little Milica Rakic, it was clear to me what was going on. Today in The Hague is the sequel to this story, where that gentleman in the image of prosecutor Lucifer Najs is trying to drain out of the dry drenina two drops that should be said that we have committed as a people genocide, and how our leadership, to God, has taken some criminal enterprise and the president of our party is sitting in prison without basic human and humanitarian rights. You Democrats, the Europeans have nothing to do with it, it's absolutely none of your business. Okay, you have the right not to concern yourself. We've been radicalized and as far as we're concerned, and we're warning about it. There's the next problem. It was said by Mr. Minister that we are demagogues. I told Mr. Minister nicely that we advocate that this extra day be for blood donors provided for medical reasons and for reasons of absolutely pragmatic nature. He said he analyzed blood donations during a period when he could use one day, two days or three days, as long as he said it had been before. Mr. Secretary should be looking at things holo-holistic. He's not even a good analyst, Mr. Secretary didn't consult medicine either. There are two systems of giving in the world: paid giving, and it must be rejected immediately. The World Health Organization insists on voluntary giving. Voluntary giving can't be based on someone's consciousness, but rather on incentives. The only incentive measure, except for that meal that gets voluntary blood donors, is this particular day off. I tried to convince him that most of the population is with us... Just take it here, it's not nice to say, but if you took most of our blood work, you'd see what kind of blood work we have. I was trying to say that most voluntary donors are on the border that allows you to take blood, and when you take that amount of blood, you're introducing into something that's a weaker psychophysical ability to work. I then said it was medically justified to give these people. It's no demagogy. Who knows a little bit about medicine knows that. And who doesn't know, that's another thing. Mr. Minister said it's taken from healthy people. Then why the HIV infection that rocked here? Then why the hepatitis B and the patients infected with that blood? Did they take it from healthy people, or did it come from space, into that blood? It's not always taken, unfortunately, from the healthy. It is far from true, but it is true that voluntary giving is not harmful and I think a minister would have to be far more subdued when he speaks of certain professional matters. Why was there a drop in giving? It's not the same case all over. Go to the pleasure region, go to Vojvodina. The highest percentage of giving, which is almost optimal, is in Vojvodina. The organization, the people who lead, achieve the results, and this should have been seen by Mr. Minister, the territorial distribution of this voluntary donation. The reform that has been led in a radical way since the radically tailored leadership, followed by one bad reform, leads to these results and that is the real reason to tell the citizens of Serbia here. Next, when we talk about the white plague, we're biologically disappearing, we're crowning. We don't have a problem with the white plague, we have a problem with disappearing as people from these areas. Have Mr. Minister tell me one study, professional, scientific, where the ultimate measures do not include maternity leave. To absorb the human side of motherhood and motherhood, the bonding of the child to the mother, the condition of our preschool institutions, and not to say what I said before, the number of unemployed, the personal incomes we make today, if you put all of this into one basket and if you say that demagogy is to allow the mother to use, not that she has to, some of what it has been so far, then I don't know what we're talking about. The Honorable Mr. Minister, who left here, said, namely, he gave the definition that demagogy is what it isn't and then he said what it is, let's say, the result of this government, so he said - the situation in Kosovo. What situation in Kosovo? Are the Serbs coming back? Do they live better? These bombs, Draskovic, that they shot eggs, is that his better situation? He said: the situation with Montenegro. Customs? Is the water back from Montenegro? Is this a better situation: two monetary currencies used in these two countries? Insisting in a referendum by the Montenegrins and protesting the lists: is this a better situation? It is not a demagogy that the situation is worse, it is not a demagogy in Kosovo that is worse in Montenegro, but the minister has other arches and other opinions. We Serbian Radical Party MPs vote for it. Why did I mention the NATO bombing, and why am I talking about the court in The Hague? I'm afraid some of the provisions of this law are not on the trail. I'm not saying there's a criminal association against our citizens, but when we have a poor woman like this... It's always said, normal country. We're not a normal country, we're a country in transition. We have to protect our citizens who are in an invisible situation, and their numbers are very large. Legally, we try to stop that rapid pace of disappearing us from these terrains. Every year, 25,000 citizens disappear from these fields, and that's one town. Not on the day that we're trying to get voluntary donors to increase drastically, but we did what we could and what we had to do to stimulate these people to give that blood. These donors have had free medical checks in the past, they haven't paid for the participation, and it's been lifted. They weren't waiting in line, and it was lifted. Democrats, you are now instituting repression against people who are human, who want to sacrifice themselves for another, but most say that it is nothing to give blood, those who have not given blood. Ask a man who's given blood over a hundred times how he feels after giving blood, if he can run right now and if it's all right. Therefore, Serbian Radical Party MPs are urging all of you not to vote for this. We appeal to your conscience and to your morality.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17767	Is there anyone else in the other parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17768	Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17769	Why should the amendment of MP Dragan Colic be adopted? Ladies and gentlemen, look at this legal project and you can see that from the first to the last member, it is at the expense of employees' rights, maternity rights, the rights of citizens of Serbia. Article 12 deprives the rights already existing in the law that we adopted three months ago. It's about the right to a warm meal, the right to regress, the right to paid travel expenses. Article 118 deprives the right to past work, i.e. the proposal to amend Article 108, withholds the right to past work from 0.5%, as far as it has been so far, to 0.4%. Article 94 usurperes the rights of maternity care that are already in that law that we passed three months ago. Article 158 of that law reduces the right to severance. Article 191 of that law in the proposal for this law deprives the right to legal protection. We've already talked about it, and that's why I don't want to talk about it again. Article 77 of that law in the draft of this law usurps the right of blood donors to the absence of three days, as we have adopted in that law. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am telling the MPs of the ruling coalition, if you will not adopt any amendments from now on, adopt the amendment of MP Dragan Colic, and that will solve everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-13-0.u17770	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, the proposing representative does not want a word, since it is not there. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I thank you for your work today. We continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Publishing Law on mobile things entered in the register.
