ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16523	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, today we have another set of important financial laws on the agenda. The most important thing is to amend the Value Added Tax Act. When we introduced value added tax, we said that we would follow its implementation and that if we came to the conclusion that we could improve that text and do it in the first half of this year, and here we are, that's what happened. I must tell you that the introduction of value added tax is a small revolution in public finances. Indeed, all the effects so far are only positive, given that the value added tax was about 45% higher in the first five months of this year compared to the same period last year. Another thing happened, it was reduced in one significant part and the grey economy, because there was a decline in imports, and on the other hand to export growth, given that exporters have a zero rate when exporting goods, with the right to deduct the previous tax. We regularly reconciled our obligations to the exporters. The return period was up to 15 days for large exporters, and we often returned money within six or seven days, and most often it was a period. Vomiting for large exporters amounts to over a billion dinars per month, but we regularly settle it and thus help to achieve as much exports as possible, because the growth of exports in the first four months of this year was 51%. As for vomiting to others, we have never exceeded the legal deadline. Most often we returned within 20 days, with only those bonds that incorrectly showed the request for return, so, as some kind of punishment, we returned within 40 days, in order to properly calculate and demonstrate VAT during the next accounting period. Also, I have to say that there are more and more taxpayers in the VAT system, so this system has found its full application in practice. Given that we have achieved a budget surplus in the first five months of this year, we have decided to lower some VAT rates and even some products in re-proportion, as far as VAT rates are concerned. First, we decided to lower the VAT rate to newly built apartments if used for residential needs; from 18% of this rate is reduced to 8% according to our proposal. Then we reduce the rate from 18% to 8% for frozen fruit, vegetables, meat and fish, for cereals, sunflower, soybean, sugar beet, oily rape, then for all medicines, including medicines used in the wind. So, so far, they've only been drugs on the positive list, and now all drugs go to 8%, including those used in the wind. Then there's cattle food, complete feed for cattle, mycelium for growing mushrooms, live cattle, and not just breeding, as so far as it's been; that's good where we're now introducing a lower rate of tax on added value of 8%. This should lead to the cost of these basic provisions of life, and as for cereals, sunflowers, we will now even prices with finished products, because the flour is already at 8%, the oil is at 8%, and now it will input, the raw materials will also be at 8%, so that it will not create any problems, especially considering that now the harvest begins. As for the other rates we are reducing, we decided to reduce the rate from 18% to 8% on movie tickets, tickets to fairs, circuses, entertainment parks, concerts, exhibitions, and so far, zoos, Botanical Gardens, museums, galleries and theatres have been released. Now we're literally reducing rates for these other manifestations. We also extend the tax exemption with the right to deduct the previous tax, and that's so-called. Zero rate, for the dispatch of goods to free customs shops opened at air ports open for international traffic. So, we're opening up a fact-finding shop, but only at international airports, where passport and customs controls are organised and where you can buy goods with a boarding card, as well as in other countries in the world, without VAT, and you'll see change of customs law and no customs. In this way, we at Belgrade International Airport will allow for the opening of Duti-Free shops. We have extended the tax exemption without the right to deduct previous land tax, both agricultural and forest, construction, construction, construction, construction, construction, construction, public and other land, so this is now a zero rate without the right to deduct the previous tax, and credit rating service for natural and legal persons, credit bureau. We abolished VAT on imports of humanitarian aid and donations from abroad, as well as on goods exported from Serbia, which return to Serbia unsold, because they do not match the quality required by the foreign buyer. It happened that the goods were exported, and then, since one part is unskilled, it was returned to Serbia; then, according to this old law, VAT was accounted for, and we now release it, if it is proved to be goods exported, but due to inadequate quality at the request of the ino-purchaser it was returned to the country. Also, tax exemption is being introduced for imports of various disabled aids, except for motor vehicles, therefore, for all other disability aids. We are extending the right to deduct the previous tax, so that from the day of entry into force of this law, the VAT payer will have the right to deduct the previous tax on the basis of expenditure for his employees, for accommodation in hotels and similar facilities, for food and transport. So he'll be able to deduct these expenses from the previous tax. We also noticed that there was a double taxation effect in some companies, in the traffic of passenger cars, in water facilities. We have now introduced that if a VAT debtor carries out the traffic of passenger cars, water facilities and aircraft for which he did not have the right to deduct the previous tax in full or in proportion, this traffic will be deemed not to have occurred within the meaning of the VAT Act. In fact, this traffic will not have the consequences of VAT, but only from the tax on the transfer of absolute rights, and so far it has been double taxed. We also introduced the right to return VAT to traditional churches and religious communities: the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Islamic Community, the Catholic Church, the Slovak Church, the Jewish community, the Reformer Christian Church and the Evangelical Christian Church. And we prescribe the right to refaction, i.e. the return of VAT on goods and services carried out in Serbia, as well as for goods imported, directly related to their religious activity. This law, i.e. amending and supplementing the Law, prescribes the right to refund VAT which has already been paid in the first six months of this year for health institutions, for goods subject to donation and humanitarian aid contracts, and has been paid by the Ministry of Health. In other words, since the current solution had the payment of VAT to humanitarian aid and donations, we are now refunding, recover funds from budgets to health institutions, as the health ministry paid VAT for them. A refund will also be made, i.e. the return of funds to traditional churches and religious communities for services, i.e. imports of goods that are related to religious activity. These are changes to the VAT Act. Once again, I want to say that VAT is the basic pillar of public finance. We have continued to look at the relevant European Union directive and I must say that we have decided to lower to 8% in our apartments, regardless of how much the majority of the European Union's countries have a higher VAT rate, i.e. the basic rate. Several European Union countries have a lower rate. Considering that one of the priorities of our country is resolving the housing issue, we decided to reduce the rate for newly built apartments to 8%, with a desire to speed up the housing. The next law ahead of you is a proposal to amend and supplement the Customs Act. He's bringing the next paper. It allows citizens working abroad to import certain household items without paying customs duties. Also, disabled people are allowed to import motor vehicles without paying customs duty. This law regulates the procedure for obtaining authorisation for the operation of customs agents established by the Customs Law. The procedure for obtaining the permit has not been precisely defined. Also, it is possible to open free customs shops at international airports. The government is empowered to increase or reduce the prescribed customs rates to 50%, due to market disturbances, i.e. for goods for which a zero rate is prescribed by the customs tariff can be determined up to a maximum of 5 per cent. I must say that in other countries, customs tariffs do not change in the Assembly, but are changed by governments themselves, since market circumstances make it necessary to lower customs duties for a product. There are rare cases of an increase in customs rates, given the contracts that exist with the World Trade Organisation. Because of flexibility, we didn't take the right that the government could completely change customs tariffs, but restrictions were given. As for the benefits for our returnees abroad, therefore, our people working abroad have the right to import household items other than motor vehicles, if they are domestic citizens and if they have been working abroad for an uninterrupted period of two years. That's a condition. We also prescribe which categories of people with disabilities can import cars without paying customs. These are: disabled with physical impairment of at least 70%, military disabled from the first to fifth group, civilian disabled wars from the first to fifth group, blind faces, persons suffering from dystrophy, paraplegics, persons suffering from cerebral and child paralysis, persons suffering from multiple sclerosis and parents of multiple impaired children in development, with the introduction of a ban on selling such imported vehicles within three years if used vehicles are involved, and new vehicles are subject to a ban on estrangement of vehicles for five years. These are basic amendments to the Customs Act. We have a brand-new Customs tariff law ahead of us. As you know, Serbia has an old Customs Tariff Act, which was practically inherited by the former SRJ. We made the law according to the standard HS 2002. In fact, we have brought it into line with the European Union Combined Tariff on the nomenclature. It is very important that the assembly adopt this law, as it will be the basis for Serbia's negotiations with the European Commission on the conclusion of an association and accession agreement on 5 October. Also, this customs tariff will be the basis for Serbia's membership talks in the World Trade Organisation. Why are we bringing a tariff? First, it increases the number of tariffs from the current 8,000 to over 10,000. Secondly, you also know that the Action Plan for Harmonising Serbia-Montenegro's economic system has led to certain imbalances in protection, so that customs duties have been raised for some products that are not produced in Serbia, which have been reduced enormously for something produced in Serbia, in order to achieve (August 2003) harmonisation of Serbia-Montenegro's economic system. Among other things, this led, in a good way, to the enormous growth of imports last year, as some rates were extremely low for products produced in Serbia. With the new customs tariff, we raise customs rates for 142 products. These are mainly agricultural products, products of the skin industry, furniture industries, electrical appliances for household and others. I'll list some of the products where we suggested an increase in customs duties. In fact, we have suggested that customs rates increase for some of the agricultural products that Serbia is abounding in. The case works, the flour rate is currently 5%, and we raise it by this proposal to 20%. We raise for green salad, for caesium, peaches, apples, pears, other fruits produced in the country, for sweet peppers, for other peppers, sugar tail seeds, lucerca seeds, hops. These are agricultural products for which the customs rate is raised. It works for apples from 5% to 15%. In fact, we had a strange situation that customs rates were raised for kiwis and Mandarins and for some products that Serbia does not produce at all and that for apples and pears were reduced due to harmonisation with Montenegro. This is how we protect our domestic agriculture. Also, customs are rising to furniture from 10% to 20%, to protect our wood industry; for ready tyres from 10% to 20%, given that Serbia has several very significant internationally recognised manufacturers in the rubber industry, such as the "Tiger" from Piroth, Trajal from Kruševac, Ruma-gum and others. As for the reduction of customs duties, the customs rates for 164 products are reduced. These are mainly raw materials and semi-products that are not produced in the country and we mainly made sure that these are raw materials in branches that are export-oriented and in branches for which domestic demand exists. These are, above all, raw materials for black metallurgy, coloured metals - aluminium, wood industry, textile industry, graphics industry. In fact, if you remember, because of the protection of the sub-fuel combination of aluminium and Željezara Niksic, customs rates for aluminium raw materials, i.e. steel, have been enormously raised, which has burdened our producers of finished goods, as protection for finished products has been lower than customs on raw materials, so that they have all suffered in the last year and a half of the loss. The newly formed government immediately introduced customs contingents for these products, and now we formalise it through the descent of these customs duties into the Customs tariff. Given that we have access to ′′ double track′′ in joining the European Union, this was also formally possible. As you know, in 2001, our country concluded a special agreement with the European Union that granted us duty-free exports by 96% of our products to the European Union, with the obligation that Serbia cannot raise the level of customs rates on its own. Therefore, I would like to inform this Parliament that the Ministry of Finance has requested and received from the European Commission a licence to raise customs rates for 142 products. I know that our Chamber of Commerce has had demands to increase some customs rates with other products, however, we have received consent to these 142 products. It's so-called. The stand still arrangement that we have with the European Union, and if the rates for some other products are increased, the European Union could completely abolish the duty-free export of our products to the European Union market. That is why we have not done this without agreement with the European Union, on the contrary, this is completely over with the European Commission. What is the effect of increasing, or reducing the customs rate to the overall protection of our economy? First, we lower customs rates on goods whose imports were worth about $200m last year, and we raise customs rates on products whose total imports were about $800m last year. So, for these 140 and some products (it was imported by $800 million, which means that they significantly increased our external trade deficit) we raise customs to reduce that deficit, and we bring down customs duties for 160 and some products, whose imports had relatively little value. The average customs rate is now falling by only 0.09%; from the current 8.80 down to 8.71. However, this is the average customs rate, far more relevant for the economic analysis is a weighted customs rate, weighted by the value of imports. The weighted customs rate following these changes remains at the same level at 6.3%. So, Serbia, I must say, has a relatively low customs rate, although in the process of alignment, both with the chamber and with the businessmen, there was a requirement to lower some other customs rates. There were perhaps also legitimate requirements to abolish this rate of 1% on imports, for example, equipment and some other products and to be zero, given that the costs of the customs procedure are often more expensive than the fiscal revenues themselves. However, we have not only done this at this time for strategic reasons, because we are about to have negotiations with the World Trade Organisation, where we will have to give some concessions in negotiations and to further lower some customs rates. Another important thing that the citizens of Serbia and parliament know – the basis of negotiations with the European Union is that we say in what period Serbia will be able to exchange customs rates with the European Union to zero. Now the customs rates are as you can see in the tariff. We will have to in some period, I believe not less than five years, raise all these customs rates in exchange with the European Union to zero, if we want to become a member of the European Union. I must say that similar negotiations have already led Croatia, Macedonia and other countries, Bulgaria and Romania, of course, and that this is common practice. I think our negotiating position is going to be to be a five-year deadline, when we're going to need all customs rates for importing goods from the European Union to bring them down to zero, which doesn't mean we won't be able to have protection for imports of goods from other countries. This customs law allows the introduction of special protection measures, for example, for imports of goods from China, for imports of goods from outside the European Union. We will quickly, together with the Chamber of Commerce, develop mechanisms not only of customs, but of extra-tariff protection regarding goods from these areas. By the way, I have to tell you that the effective measures our customs duties have implemented so far, because we have reduced the number of import points for imports of Euro-Asian goods to three in Serbia. Imports from China in the first four months of this year are down 30%, but I'm sure there's still room to protect our production. Also, I'd like to say that there is a change in extracarinal protection. Ask tomatoes producers in the woodland; no one complains about imports of tomatoes from Macedonia, Bulgaria, from other countries anymore. Unfortunately, we have now come to a different situation. Now it's citizen food together. So, on the one hand, we managed to raise agricultural prices for farmers, but we have another problem – the largest part of the price growth index in the first five months is food prices. We have a very strange situation: Serbia, which is a agricultural country, has expensive food. Of course, rich countries can afford to subsidize in most of the farmers. We, however, have that 20 billion at our disposal, as far as we have in the budget. This is why it is important that we move to negotiations with the European Union as soon as possible; most of the pre-accession European Union funds are used for agriculture, because we do not have the opportunity to further subsidise agriculture. So we have to maintain good prices for farmers, and on the other hand, we have to make sure that we lower the prices of finished products for citizens. On the remaining laws, which are also important, it seems to me that these three key ones, I'm going to be a little shorter. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, there are several newspapers. First of all, the basis for our people's profits abroad is downgraded. So if our companies work abroad, once this law is passed, they will pay contributions on the same basis as working in the country. Right now, this base is even up to three, four, five times the base. That's why the good part of the contribution is not paid, it's done in black. In fact, this will help our builders to demonstrate the actual salaries they pay our workers. This is a proposal agreed with the Chamber of Commerce, that is, the Association for Construction and the Association for Housing. As for farmers, and given that in the Law on Income Tax, we have freed the payment of taxes on cadastrian income for farmers for 2004 and 2005, we here specify that for a calendar year for which no income tax is determined and does not pay the income tax on catastran income, the minimum monthly base for the category of taxpayers is 40% of the average monthly earnings in the Republic paid in the fourth quarter of the previous year. The big newspaper in this law is paying contributions to independent artists. In fact, we noticed that no one pays contributions when it comes to independent artists, because it is an obligation for feers to pay 20% of taxes and a corresponding contribution, so the total obligation is over 50%. In fact, none of the tenors want to pay for it, black is paid for by independent artists. We decided to change that practice and to remove the obligation to pay the contributions, to transfer it to the artists themselves. In other words, the payer of the fee will pay only 20% from now on. Everything that's gone black so far will go into legal flows. For this type of activity, 20% is a low tax rate. On the other hand, independent artists will have to pay advance contributions based on the basis they choose. They have the opportunity to choose four basics: the lowest monthly base, if it comes to painters, voyeurs, those who have less income. The lowest monthly base of contribution is 40% of the average salary in the last quarter in the previous year. They can choose average monthly earnings, double average earnings, quadruple. However, they will pay monthly, so they will advance, and then at the end of the year the final reckoning will be submitted, as an application for an annual income tax will be submitted, so that those who make bigger fees will pay a bigger difference, those who have had less will remain on advance payment and thus the final reckoning will bring about a real situation. In this way, we will get through the payer of the fee exactly how much the independent artists actually earn, because the payers of the fee will be motivated to pay all the fees, because with 20% of the taxes they solved it. When they pay it to an artist, the automatic tax administration has records of how much they're paid and then we control how they pay their contributions. Those who receive, I don't know, for some 10,000 euros (and it will be recorded) will have to pay a relatively higher contribution, with the maximum contributions being the same as for all other citizens, and the maximum is a five-fold average salary; this is what is a maximum contribution and is paid on a basis equal to a five-time average salary. In other words, it's equivalent to pay of about 75,000, 80,000 dinars a month. This applies to independent artists and cultural workers who are not provided on a different basis. For other persons who make the agreed fees, which are secured on the second basis, which are in a working relationship, entrepreneurs, the payment of the contribution for PIO at deduction, so the old system is retained and the contributions are calculated and the payer pays it when the income is paid. So it refers only to independent artists and cultural workers who are not provided on a different basis, and that is very important to say. We also regulate in a more favourable way the payment of contributions for priests and religious servants. Priests, religious officials, monks and nuns will pay a future contribution by solving the tax authority on a basis defined by the church, i.e. the religious community, depending on the duty, school preparation, work experience and other personal characteristics of the insurance company, in one of the following amounts: it can be the lowest monthly basis, which is 40% of the average earnings, or the average monthly earnings multiplied by a coefficient of one, two, three, four or five. The church will also determine, and I suppose there is a final reckoning at the end of that period. One more thing we're going back to this law, which we abolished a year ago. We had a good will when, in previous years, in the Law, we freed employers who did not pay their workers' wages. We wanted to help those firms that are in trouble. However, this turned out to have led to an ejaculation, i.e. avoiding payment of contributions. This is why we return this obligation to employers – they have to account for contributions to the lowest monthly base, whether they have paid or not to pay their profits, so that it does not happen (and there are many such cases, from businessmen to the media) that no profit is paid, and therefore no contribution is accounted for, and in fact, it is paid to black. So we need to make sure that we provide adequate funding for pensions, for the health fund, for the unemployment insurance fund. We decided to go back after all. As for firms in difficulty, an amendment has been made to the Privatisation Act so that all debts can be written off by 31.12.2004 if an appropriate buyer is found in the restructuring process and that this is a condition for privatisation, so that there is a possibility of conversion into ownership. In any case, in this way we want to increase the discipline in paying the contributions. We also increase for foreigners who are on education and professional training in the Republic of Serbia the basis of the health insurance contribution to the average monthly earnings in the Republic achieved in the fourth quarter, instead of the lowest base so far. We believe that those from abroad studying in Serbia have the money to pay a contribution on a larger basis and that this does not have to be a contribution, such as for textiles. As for the most important amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, you know for yourself that in the last year there has been a significant increase in tax collection. This law further strengthens financial discipline. First of all, we have seen one way to avoid taxes, which is inadmissible in any country, and we have previously failed to settle it with our law. The example works, if someone has a company that owes, he starts another company and then through agnitions, cessies and compensation works, and actually avoids paying taxes. In this way, there are some companies in Serbia that seem very successful, spending millions on advertising campaigns on TV, without paying the state regularly neither contributions nor taxes. We have a very important change here. In fact, the taxpayer who determines the tax liability and initiates the mandatory payment procedure for the debt will no longer be able to settle obligations to third parties through the aignment, cessium or compensation before the settlement of the tax debt. Therefore, it refers only to those who establish the tax liability and initiate the mandatory collection procedure. To avoid confusion, there remains an instrument of assignation, cesium and compensation, but not for this category of taxpayers. Also, the bank will be obliged to suspend the settlement of taxpayers' money obligations immediately after receiving payment orders through asignation, cessium or compensation. This restriction does not apply only to payment on the basis of payouts, severances and other charges to employees. Also, this law determines a faster and more efficient process of selling mobile goods and immovableity through oral public competition. In Serbia up to a year ago, there was, in fact, no settlement of the tax debt by selling movable and immovable things. It is one of the basic visions of establishing tax discipline in all developed countries in the world. We are currently conducting 6,000 of these procedures in Serbia, for the simple reason that until someone as a pawn's right to register property, they have no intention of paying taxes at all. It often happens that when a deposit is placed on the property and the process is initiated, the debtor finds funds and pays taxes, and then there is no sale of assets. In this way, we want to strengthen financial discipline. It is clear – given that this law has so far provided for some crimes, and a new tax offence is being introduced, and this is an unfounded statement of the amount of tax refund and tax credit – until the courts condemn someone for tax evasion, we will not have a real tax discipline. We've filed a number of criminal charges for tax evasion in the last year. So far, we don't have any judgments on tax evasion courts. It is clear that we cannot fully establish financial discipline until the courts have ruled in these legal matters. However, this law allows financial at least state charges to be charged and we have, in fact, equal treatment for everyone in Serbia. As far as tax control is concerned, I must say that the revolutionary role was played by the fiscal cash registers that were introduced last year. Given that we have a surplus in the budget, tomorrow we will decide that all those who need to obtain a GPRS device, therefore, remote terminals for giving a report to the tax administration, and have traffic of up to 20 million dinars (which is 105,000 taxpayers in Serbia), will be exempt from paying that device up to 150 euros, i.e. they will receive a tax credit in that amount, which means they will get it, but in the next tax period they will not pay the country a tax of 150 euros. In fact, in this way we release those taxpayers with traffic of up to 20 million, which are small and medium-sized enterprises, 105,000 such taxpayers in Serbia. They pay three months of VAT. They will have a tax credit for the purchase of a 150-euro GPRS terminal per piece. We have two more laws. One is the draft law on the issue of an extra stamp. In this regard, the termination of the applicable marketing tax law ceases to be the basis for the state to issue additional postal stamps which are financed by various humanitarian actions. With this law we create the basis that the Government can issue additional postal stamps to provide part of the funds for humanitarian actions, projects of public interest, the marking of historical and cultural events, as well as other projects of wider social importance. Finally, you also have before you a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. I must say, on behalf of the Government, I am designated rapporteur of this law; otherwise, these are fees imposed on the request of different ministries for the opening of some new activities. Some taxes have been reduced, for example, the fees for transporting gravel, sand, since the tax on exports of these products from the country was higher than, retail, the price of this product, so we were uncompetitive in this area. Some taxes are introduced for new jobs and for the new laws this congregation has passed in the meantime. When you study this law, you will see that it is mainly about fees from other ministries, and we are only, under the Government Act, competent to propose this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16524	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a National MP Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16525	I want to tell the public and MPs in front of the DSS parliamentary group that we will vote in favour of the proposed laws. We believe that they bring certain reliefs, beyond what is necessary, in order to live up to the economy, and also trying to introduce financial discipline in that sector that eats up our society, I mean the gray economy sector. So this is another step towards introducing order in our lives, especially in our economic life. As far as VAT law is concerned, I'm glad the effects of VAT are what we expected when we introduced VAT. It was a revolution in our business and finance, and we certainly looked forward to seeing the first effects of VAT last year. It is normal that many were skeptics, although I will remind the MPs and the public that almost all the MP groups were in favour of introducing the VAT; they even respected the decision, namely the Minister's proposal to introduce the VAT into our system at two rates. Of course there's always pressure to move from higher to special, lower rate from the general rate. It is also normal that those who have a lower rate want to have a zero rate, however, respecting the VAT paradox rule, it seems to me that it is best to have two rates, higher and lower and best to be very restrictive in requests for a higher rate transition. I think what the minister suggests is very useful and it's good that some of the items go from lower to higher. He's already listed what it's all about, and I'll point out only housing, new apartments, which will certainly contribute to raising our population's standard and allow, by my estimate, housing in Serbia to be cheaper. Even if a national corporation were to revive us in the way we imagined it, the national housing corporation, I suppose, would live up to housing, so that many young people could reach the roof over their heads, wait for lower interest rates. It is all in the hands of the executive authorities, especially parliament, which should pass such laws that will stabilise interest rates and bring them down. As far as customs law is concerned... Last night, many of us were at the White Button concert, and I guess many of us remembered with the nostalgia of past times and those Titos of Yugoslavia, but many forget that customs rates at that time were enormously high, that jeans were paid about 50-60% of customs, or I don't know how much compared to purchase prices. Thank God Serbia is a country with a customs rate below 10%, about 8.8%. It's a good thing we're trying to bring down more customs with this package of customs laws. I hope that the traffic of goods and goods will be unlimited at the most recent time, and it is good that it insists that it be limited, i.e. to prevent imports of bofl goods. It destroys domestic production and we need to find the right mechanisms that will not harm our status, it will not harm our country to be in the world market in the right way, but at the same time it should protect domestic production. As far as this tax administration law is concerned, we certainly need the introduction of order in the area. Finally, we have experience after the introduction of VAT and fiscal cash registers and it is good to apply the experience in detailing what should be done in the tax police and other tax administration authorities. I would like to point out this occasion that the minister is quite restrictively treating some of his administrations, such as the tax administration, and that many parts of the tax administration in Serbia have certain problems with functioning because they simply do not have enough resources to carry out their work in the right way. It's not, of course, popular to talk about this, but I can't say that the tax police in Pozrevac are holding laurels and buckets when it rains and that they don't have the means to perform their work. I think it's inadmissible, and I would ask the minister to simply allocate certain resources to ensure that an important state body has normal operating conditions. I'm talking literally about some things that hurt people who do important government work. For the very end I want to say - we are always ready to criticise the work of police and many authorities, it is time for us to praise them for once. Last night or night, Belgrade had one of the greatest celebrations for Vidovdan. We had 200,000 people on the Belgrade track, having a crazy time, but without any incident, and thank the police department who could do it in a good way.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16526	Does anyone else from the president want a word? Yeah. National MP Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16527	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry of Finance, the DS will vote in favour of these draft laws, because we consider it to be technical changes, especially when it comes to amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act. We also welcome the amendments made to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax. If a stenogram is better consulted from the session when the Value Added Tax Act has been adopted, then all MPs can be convinced that the Democratic Party's observations just now referred to the largest part of the product that is now exempted from the higher rate of value added tax and transferred to an 8% rate, that it was actually the original DS proposal. I am sorry that these are not covered by some other products, in order to make young, talented people available primarily to a whole series of devices, the equipment that is needed to develop education, to develop science. But I hope that in some subsequent extraction, in some of the following changes, when the relevant conditions are obtained, we will also consider these products and reduce the value added tax for these products. So, I don't want to talk much about this law, given that it's about the realization of the requirements that we made a year ago, when we adopted the value added tax, we set. I think this is a good move from the Ministry of Finance, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What was a direct cause for me to answer the word at all and to approach this speaker was a comment in the prime minister's opening exposé on the subject of amendments and additions to the Customs Code, i.e. individual customs provisions. Who knows what time it is repeated here that there has been a significant customs burden on the domestic economy and an uncontrolled reduction in customs rates for a particular product group, i.e. an increase in customs rates for those imported and not produced in our country. I must admit that if we wanted to have a common state, which was the will of the majority, then the harmonisation of the two economic systems was inevitable. Once again because of the public, I want to repeat that customs harmonisation has been fully implemented, namely the creation of a customs union, except for 52 or 56 agricultural products. The harmonisation process itself, i.e. the creation of a single customs union, covered more than 9,000 customs items. This job lasted more than three months and it was done (I can freely argue, since I was directly involved in it) in the most optimal and most efficient way, in a way that provided full protection to precisely those sectors that had just accessed the privatisation process, i.e. the restructuring process. Just look at the part about the metal industry, especially the part relating to the production of traffic, and see to what extent the claim I make for this speaker is correct. But this is also about something else, which is essentially a methodological issue and, I would say, a strategic approach. First, I want to remind the public and you, gentlemen of the MPs, that we had a first uncontrolled reduction in customs rates in January 2001, by law passed by the former federal government, on the proposal of the Vice-President of the Federal Government of Mr Miroljub Labus. At a time when the customs law, which reduced the average customs rate by more than 5%, was passed in January 2001, the government of the Republic of Serbia lasted only two days. In fact, the government had no room to declare the degree of reduction in the protection of the Serbian economy, although the law dominated, or exclusively, the Serbian economy, because Montenegro had a completely different customs law long ago, regardless of the formal legislation in the area was within the jurisdiction of the federal government. It is therefore not, at least, politically correct to accuse others of uncontrollably reducing the customs protection of certain branches and it is incorrect and unfair to say that there has been great damage in the process of harmonisation of two customs systems, which has been a consequence not only of a political decision, as far as I can see, of all the key political actors on the political scene. Some of them are now in power, such as the DSS, G17, and some are in opposition, such as the Democratic Party. But at the time when the Constitutional Charter was passed, all relevant political forces were on one side, they signed the adoption of the Constitutional Charter, so they accepted the Constitutional Charter proposal, and as a consequence two customs systems were agreed – one painful job that was once again carried out by the Republic government and which, once again, was done in the best way for the Serbian economy, taking into account the differences in certain tariff or customs items in the Montenegrin legislation and in what was prescribed by the federal legislation. The second question I want to ask is the essential, strategic issue, the issue of strategic approach – should we today insist and boast about raising customs rates and protecting the domestic industry, or should we use a liberal principle, which will enable full competition and ultimately protect consumers, rather than giants that have no economic power, and which instead of economic efficiency, instead of profits make daily losses. That's the question I'm asking for all of you. This is a question that I also ask the creators of a liberal economic concept; that is, it is not only a question, but at the same time my astonishment of why there has been a twist from a originally defined liberal economic policy towards an ever-increasing reach for state interventionism. If we look at it, it's not like that. I fear that they are increasingly reaching out to state interventionism in terms of the protection of the economy and to the harm of consumers. It's not exactly in practice like that, but it's more of a story here, because it's a populist demagogue story that, unfortunately, can still be "sell" to public opinion and where the right points can be earned. To sum up, because I don't want to take any more time to the National Assembly – the Democratic Party will consistently, as it has done so far, support these legislative projects, because we think these are quality steps forward in economic reform. It will enable correcting appropriate errors and embedding of relevant experiences based on the current application of the Value Added Tax Act and, at the same time, will allow for an appropriate correction of the errors that have indeed been made in certain laws, so that I do not now list them, in the original text. What I would really insist on, which is the spirit of the Tax Procedure Act and the Law on Value Added Tax, is a more quality and faster tax refaction, i.e. the same treatment of state, state-owned enterprises, on the one hand, and on the other hand taxpayers. So if someone has a tax credit, then you have to congratulate him, you have to account for the tax credit and say – you don't have to pay the tax anymore, we pay you back because you overpaid. So, one more quality relationship between the state, not to name individual institutions, i.e. institutions and, on the other hand, taxpayers, but that is one longer process which, in the end, is part of the establishment of full financial discipline. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16528	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16529	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, here are a few views of the Socialist Party of Serbia on the proposed amendments and amendments to the law or on this whole set of laws that we are considering today. First of all, when it comes to the Law on Value Added Tax – it is on the trail of what we thought when the law was passed. I think anyone who is reasonable must welcome a reduction in the tax rate for certain products and services. In particular, I think it is important that there is an understanding – in order to encourage the construction and sale of apartments we have to go at a lower rate, instead of 18% with 8% value added tax, because experience has shown that all those who have available apartments to sell this VAT included in the price and thus increased their price, thus reducing the possibility of young people and those who have no apartments to buy apartments. I think this measure will be important for encouraging the construction of new apartments, especially if it combines with a future credit policy announced by the minister regarding the approval of favourable loans for the purchase of apartments, especially when it comes to young people. It's interesting for me here why it didn't go a little more brave when it came to medication. It is a good measure to reduce from 18% of value added tax to 8%, but for me as a Socialist, it would be the best measure if there was no value added tax for medicines. I don't think the state would have any harm, on the contrary, would have benefited. And, in my opinion, citizens would have the opportunity to treat themselves cheaper and get the necessary medications, and there would be no difference based on economic status and on the purchase of medicines in pharmacies. Everything else in these amendments to the laws is acceptable for the Socialists, except where we have submitted the amendments, because we think that some enlargements in the area of agriculture, the purchase of agricultural machinery and machinery, as well as spare parts for them, should also take place in the area of agriculture and the sale of agricultural products of domestic origin by the manufacturer. That's what we'll talk about when it's on the agenda for the amendment debate. When it comes to Customs and Customs Tariff Law, I think I should keep your attention, because apparently, these are technical laws, but I think they are very important for the future economic position of many of our companies with foreign trade and foreign balance payments. Mr. Vlahovic was just talking about it, but I'd like to remind you of a few things here. The current Customs Tariffs Act has been valid for four years and has been passed by the Federal Assembly in 2001 with effect from 1 June 2001. So for the fifth year as this federal customs tariff law is applied. I remind you that the previous average customs rate was about 15%. The amendments to the customs tariff law reached an average customs rate of approximately 9.32%, and then the harmonisation of relations with Montenegro reduced the average customs rate to approximately 7.5% or 7.45%. Therefore, they are wrong to say that the previous republican government did not influence the reduction of customs rates and thus to reduce the protection of domestic economy. I can ask a practical question – what would have happened if we hadn't had such a policy in customs and customs tariffs over the past four years, if we hadn't had such exposure to our economy to foreign competition and such a liberal approach in foreign trade relations with abroad? I am sure that the result of a somewhat stricter discipline, slightly stronger protection of domestic production would be a smaller external trade deficit, a smaller unnecessary import and stronger domestic economy. We exposed our economy to competition in 2001 when it wasn't ready and at that time our economy was like a patient you need to get out of bed and make him run with those who are healthy. We had, if we were to add, in those past four years an external trade deficit of about $15 billion and it's reasonable to ask if we could use that $15 billion more wisely, if we could use that foreign exchange potential, that foreign currency through our business banks differently to place it to revive domestic production, to prepare it for that competition, because it's not questionable in itself, but it's only a matter of time. I think that at that moment, in 2001, as a society, we rushed into opening, liberalising, importing and what we didn't need, because everything from abroad seemed cheaper. When customs rates dropped from 15% to 9%, we thought, let's buy from abroad. Domestic production has been shut down and we have actually come into such a situation that even if we wanted to produce something, we have a lot of problems to start these economic capacities, especially those that are export-oriented. That's why the export incentive law is very good, but I'm afraid it will be insufficient if it continues to liberalise external trade relations. What do I mean by that? When I look at these tariffs, I'm just surprised sometimes, because I have the following logic: if we need something and we can't produce it here, then we're reducing the customs rate and it's logical for me, even if it's zero and one, and when it comes to equipment and when it comes to some re-promaterials that we need, etc. Please, when I look at these items, in tariff codes, I see: fertilizer, plant and animal origin, customs rate 1%; wool, animal origin, sheep, customs rate is zero. Does that mean we don't have a stable fertilizer and we don't have wool? Unfortunately, it means that because we had such a policy that effectively destroyed the stock fund; because there is no stock fund, there is no permanent manure, and the country of Serbia has to import permanent manure and has a minimum customs rate of 1%. People in other areas throw sheep's wool, there's no one to buy it, and we have a customs rate of zero, which means there's no wool, there's no wool to import. I'm not saying this can't stay like this, but it can't be the state's policy to keep quiet or to keep a close eye on such facts. So, especially when it comes to the Ministry of Agriculture, the minister here announced something very controversial to me: there will be no subsidies in agriculture. Okay, it won't be, but there will be limited subsidies, so it's not about being never. Please, it's not yet our agricultural production ready to have no subsidies. You see what war is being waged between France and the UK right about subsidies in agriculture. The whole story is based on subsidies from French agriculture, with five billion dollars from the European Union subsidising French agriculture. Is it reasonable to think about it, to be exactly the same as Europe, to fit into all normative mechanisms, to have no subsidies or to have very reduced subsidies to agriculture, and that is then another blow to and such a difficult situation in that part. It is good that many agricultural products remain protected in this customs tariff; they are relatively protected, they used to be more, but because of these relations with Montenegro, we had to accept some things we would otherwise not accept. (President: Mr. Todorovic, do you use another 10 minutes? Here, let me finish. I don't have any objections here; the only thing that's kind of not normal for me right now is that haste to bring it into line with Europe in terms of customs. We will enter Europe in 2012 or do I not know which, and do they force us to? I've seen that we have one government amendment to this customs tariff where it's said that we have to cut some customs rates from 5% to 3%, from 10% to 5%, because that's what the European Union is looking for. Why does she ask us to do this, when she's been back decades protecting her economy, her production, and why do we have to go even lower at such low customs rates? It's a danger in itself, aside from the fact that based on customs revenues, we'd have some better revenue in the budget, but I wouldn't talk about it. For the first ten minutes, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16530	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. We're moving on to the speaker list. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, pending the opening of a joint principled search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: the Serbian Radical Party, the Democratic Party of Serbia, G17 Plus, the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Serbian Renewal Movement - New Serbia. The People's Messenger Miodrag Stamenkovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Sreto Peric be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16531	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from this set of laws, for which my MP group will normally vote, I will single out only one part that, in my opinion, is very important and where most wrongs occurred in the previous period. These are, above all, these two characteristic laws: Customs Act and Customs Tariff Act. For what? Because of the process that is ahead of us, the process of harmonisation at which we will have to harmonize at certain times, and what we are doing now is the base rate, that is, the start-up from which we will start at those times when we have to liberalize to a zero rate. Unfortunately, as an MP in the previous period, I had the opportunity to participate, to criticise, but without any effect, so-called. And I'm going to explain to the argument that in 2003, the glog stake was stabbed mainly by our primary industry, not just metal and textile, but by other branches, by a non-selective reduction in customs rates, and when no one asked us to do so. It was, first of all, a courting of Europe. Why did I call it Chad's harmonisation? Because I asked him on the Finance Committee, Mr. Vice-President of the then government, in charge of European integration – who was the smart one who determined these customs rates, and he said, "I, a dramatologist, a graduate in film arts." Now I am pleased to hear from one of the predecessors that he participated in this as the then minister of privatisation, not the economy, because he did not do this; he was engaged in the sale, with the kind of effects I would simply call – we fought against the insider, and we came to the godfather's privatisation. We now have such problems on the Privatisation Committee as we do in the control of individual processes. What then is indiscriminately reduced, and what can we not fix now? First of all, the predecessor said that the motive for this reduction was to maintain a common state, I think even blackmail, because if you look at certain customs rates, you will see that they are held high where Montenegro has its production, and these are mostly final productions, and they are drastically reduced right where Serbia's priority is, and this is primary production. Let's take one characteristic production – it's textile, fabric production, and these are two primary stages that were closed for the previous two years. We will now have special problems because, according to a new ratified textile export agreement, we cannot obtain a certificate of origin for Serbian goods. Why? I can't take out the confect because I don't have my own fabric, and we've shut down those companies just over the past two years, and that's where they'll be the hardest to run from a zero point. These were developmental resources, as in the metal industry, we have the same cases. These were companies that were supposed to be the backbone for the development of industrial zones with small and medium-sized enterprises. The small and medium-sized enterprises had a Serbian origin of goods and could be large exporters on the European market. As the minister said, and we witness daily, there were such anomalies as raising customs rates for kiwis and oranges and reducing for apples. Go to the market and you will find only Polish and Macedonian apples, at extremely high prices, because our retail production has been destroyed. That's the effect of Chedin's harmonisation. I am glad that at least for these 142 products, the customs rate has been partially raised, because that way we will fix the base rate with which we enter into the next negotiations, which is the harmonisation negotiations. In these negotiations, as it is about customs rates and their future reduction in succession, I would ask government negotiators who will negotiate to take care of exactly those periods of harmonisation. Because if all products have to be classified in three categories – and the first category is what can be easiest to go to the European Union, because they have no own production, they have nothing to protect, and the second and third ones, and in that third most demanding category we have textile products, and here we have competitive production in Europe, not to talk about Portugal, Germany, Poland, etc. – we have already set a term there. Where? In the ratification of the duty-free export agreement and unlimited exports of textiles, we gave the table of starting rates (these are the Chedins from the harmonised Action Plan), and we'll get to zero in just two years, because in 2008, we already have a zero customs rate. Therefore, one of these most critical periods has already been set. Let me remind you that in Croatia for these three product categories it was three and six years, that they were, for example, three and six years. Macedonians even went for 10 years during the period of harmonisation, i.e. the reduction of customs rates for the most critical products. What's gonna happen to us? We have some businessmen who insist on long periods. I don't think it means anything to Serbia, and if we've decided for the most critical three years, we'll only determine the long periods that I guarantee you that if we determine 10 years the first nine won't do anything, and in the tenth, they'll do anything, because it's similar to Serbian mentality. That is why these negotiations need to be very rationally approached and allowed only by those sectors that are critical of air, that they can be restructured and that they can become competitive on the European market. Since the increase in customs rates and the above-mentioned liberal-economic concept has just been criticised, I'm going to tell you something that's been in the last few days, and maybe we should have done it sooner. That, whether someone liked it or not, was protecting them from the invasion of cheap goods of many human states. Here, we're in the tenth year of the World Trade Organisation, but we're witnessing that exactly the strongest states mine the principles on which the WTO is based. How? See what Bush does, what Berlusconi does, first and eighth countries – they simply introduce selective protection against Chinese and Indian goods. For what? It's not the prices they're destroying, it's the unreal, or extremely low labour prices. If you take that as an example. The price of the average working hour in China in the textile industry is 0.41 dollars an hour, and if you calculate that their employee in our monetary unit has 4,500 - 5,000 dinars of wages, that's less than our minimum pensions. They're happy and they live off it, but at such a price they attack us. And what Berlusconi protects – well, the cost of working in northern Italy is $15.6 an hour. Calculate how many times this is more than Chinese. From such production, even if threatened by the WTO, we must protect ourselves, because such a downgrading of the labour price is unwarranted and does not exist in another space, except in these many countries that have a terrible expansion and growth of industrial production. I would no longer; normally, we will vote, because this way this base rate is slightly rising, which will give us a better starting position in negotiations with the European Union. Once again, let me say that we from the SPO-NS Parliament Club will vote for this set of laws. We ask for a lot of attention on these sensitive issues that depend on the state of our industry, which is very much under way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16532	The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric, and let MP Zarko Obradovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16533	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if we were not familiar with the figures of ministers who defend and explain their laws here, we would think, together with some citizens, that we were in a Swiss parliament or parliament of some other highly developed country. We have noticed that every time Minister Dinkic explains his laws, he wants to remind us, as well as the citizens of Serbia, that Serbia is just walking in big steps towards Europe and the European Union. If you take a walk with our beautiful Serbia, you can make sure that's not the case very soon. Here's a fact: Minister of Capital Investment Velimir Ilic probably arranged a road construction with someone from Sapac to Loznica. Otherwise, the road has been repaired and reconstructed for two or three years and a long-term repair is announced by the end of October of the month without any alternative solution for that part of the road. Travellers travelling through that part of Serbia are very often forced to travel tourist roads that have no conditions, and heavy cargo trucks pass those roads. The peasants are now in a position to dig up in their lands and cover the land, so there's also a rollover of these trucks and a dive. If it was known to do so, the alternative road and direction could be prepared that could be used by Serbian citizens should be prepared. It is the same with this set of laws, and if there was a president of the Assembly he would have corrected me and said this was the most successful parliament since it passed the largest number of laws. That's right. That is not what we from the Serbian Radical Party dispute, nor will we do it, because the facts simply say so. We have 44 agenda points at this session, of which more than half the amendments and additions to the laws that we have already passed in this House. Just to tell you, the citizens of Serbia are not asking any MPs, nor any representative of the government as far as we have passed the law, but they are asking and noticing what these laws are like, the regulations that the government is making and what the government is designing how we live, or what they feel. Last time there was a bill on amendments to the Excise Law on the agenda, Minister Dinkic said, and we agreed that the law should be passed for the reason the government wants to secure regular oil supplies, so there would be no problems. The law has been passed and since then maybe 15 or 20 days, and oil supply is a little bit better, but they haven't solved those problems yet, they're still following us and they're big. When it comes to returning some of the goods from a higher tariff rate to a lower, I am talking about the Value Added Tax Act, which is something that we Serbian radicals certainly welcome, but we pointed out when adopting the Value Added Tax Act that some products should be classified as a lower tariff rate and some even exempt from value added tax. We welcome each establishment of financial discipline. We are, in fact, in order to settle and introduce financial discipline, but when adopting these laws, we need to keep an eye on what level of development we are in and how Serbian citizens live. In many cases, the citizens of Serbia need to meet and what they represent should certainly be made easier. The minister said we don't have the opportunity to make subsidies in agricultural production. It needs to be real, so look at the situation. That might be the way it is. However, Ministers, for some agricultural products, we would have to get the strength and subsidize it, even if in the second part we had to take more account, that is, of your obligation, that these funds collected from Serbian citizens should not be wasted on some official trips, expensive official cars, etc. These funds may need to be channelled towards subsidising agricultural products such as raspberries, cherry and a number of other agricultural products from which Serbian citizens benefit greatly, in fact whose existence depends. When it comes to drugs, I also agree with one of the debaters that there may be certain medicines to remove value added tax, meaning to leave out value added tax, because we certainly know that our oldest structures of the population are sick and that they do not have enough funding, since pensions are two or three months late. We know that the biggest users of these drugs are probably Serbian pensioners. Here we have in this set seven laws now. It was 12 before. Indeed, it is something that Serbian citizens do not have much use for, and valuable time is wasted. There's a lot of money going down there. Serbia's government should consider which direction further to be done and what needs to be done to make Serbian citizens better. MPs very often do not have the opportunity to speak about what Serbian citizens have chosen, because it is strictly spoken and taken care of, and the MP institution is weakened, to go what the government proposes. Never can an MP propose a certain legal proposal and discuss it, and surely there is a reason for that. These laws are such that around Serbian radicals cannot accept them, cannot vote for them. The minister said, when it comes to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, that in this way we want to level the rate abroad with what is in our country. Mr. Minister, you probably know that we don't have more in construction operations than the number of workers that used to be and should have done anything, not to that extent, but earlier when we were doing construction work in Asia, Africa and Europe, so that we could move in that direction and have as many construction sites as possible. Of course, it's not just your task, but your fellow ministers who run that area should work together to get as many construction sites as possible, when it comes to building operations, we have the world. When it comes to the number of perpetrators in certain tax departments, which someone said, it is not popular to mention the place I come from, which is Love, but it should be known that there is a reduction in the number of perpetrators there by previous systematicization. A year ago, I was saying you should look at something over there. A number of workers from the Tax Administration of Ljubovija are going to work in Loznica, and there are fewer perpetrators. Thus, taxpayers – but objectively, it is not about the impeccableness of those who are employed in that tax administration, but rather about not being able to arrive in time to finish all these jobs – with the maximum courtesy of the employees of the Tax Administration of Love, waiting for an hour, two, today when time is expensive, when they should be dealing with what they have opened their shops or businesses and where they are, you must admit, great obligations towards the state. They should be standing, but they need those taxpayers to meet, so when you find the time, you see that problem solved.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16534	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16535	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable fellow MPs, since this is about a set of laws that are very important, I will only take a few minutes to say one of them a few words about amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax and one of the topics I mentioned in the adoption of this law. After a few months of applying this law, I can say that I was right to say that it was necessary to release books, monographs, serial publications from a special rate of tax. After six or seven months of application of this law, there's a lot of data that confirms that I was right then. So I'm going to talk very briefly about this subject, because the rest of my colleagues will pay attention to other topics. Mr. Minister, when this law was passed, I proposed one amendment, and that was the abolition of a special rate of tax on the sales of textbooks, monographs and serial publications. I claimed then that this solution would lead to the bad position of the book and that it would essentially break through the backs of ordinary people, consumers, those who love and buy books. Experiences of VAT use suggest that this way of applying VAT in the field of publishing of books has led to several negative consequences. It's already concrete data, and I don't think we should discuss it. I'm not someone who speaks for the publisher, I speak for ordinary people, those who love and buy a book. The fact is, there's been a decrease in the number of titles from 25 to 30%. The sale of the book also fell to that extent and the fact is that the prices of the books have increased. So we have a situation in Serbia, which was known as the country where the book is read and where the book can be bought for a certain amount of money, that it will not be possible now. I know that some publishers conducted negotiations with the ministries to find a solution. I won't get into that story at all, nor do I care how they find a solution with the Ministry, it's a matter of the Minister and of them, and whatever legal, don't give God and wrong things to some of the publishers, possibly, to satisfy their profits and interests. Here's the point of the story about the price of books growing. It reminds me of the situation in 1973, when it was an oil shock, and then NIN published a story about 20 reasons why oil always collects. With us, however you go, whatever solution you apply to VAT, the book always collects and always has to be paid more. Once again, the fact is that a large number of publishers, and hence the books, are exposed to the impact of these mega publishing houses that deal with both production and the sale of newspapers. They publish a huge number of books that are of such character that the question is to what extent are these books for a wide population, that is, to what extent they serve the enlightenment of Serbia. It is also a fact that the Sixth EU Directive, taken as the basis for the adoption of this law, has a recommendation that the most possible tax relief should be applied to books and textbooks. At the time, I mentioned countries, including Ireland, England, Greece, Poland, which is a member of the EU, Croatia, Lithuania, where some solutions have been applied that help the book have better treatment in society than in Serbia. It seems that in Serbia, better solutions are only under pressure. Regular people, those who buy books, will certainly not put such pressure on the government because there is no one who can bring them together on that basis and thus come to a solution. I believe that now, after a few months of applying this law, when it can be explicitly determined that the existing solution is not good, that it has led to a decrease in the number of titles, to a decline in sales, to an increase in price, the ministry needs, along with the people who produce books, to find a solution. Consider those who write and those who read, I am not talking about those who print. Those who write and those who read know that this solution is not good, and with this third let the ministry find a solution, in the interests of the book, in Serbia's interest. Other things related to the Value Added Tax Act were spoken by my colleague Jovan Todorovic. There's nothing to take away or add. I think it is good to make certain changes and that the solutions that have been made in these six months, to say, as not good enough changes to make the law even more effective and that it would be for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I think on this point, and based on bad experience, the Ministry can take appropriate measures and find a better solution in the interests of the book and in the interests of the people who read and buy the book.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16536	The word has been issued by MP Aleksandar Vukic, as deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16537	Mr. President, I wanted to say something to you, but you were good at one TV show the other day and you explained the position of the Assembly well, no matter what we disagreed with, so I'm going to skip any kind of criticism to your account today. There's time till tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when VAT was introduced in our country, we said it was clear that it would have to exist in our country the way it works in most European countries, that it would have to be applied and that it would bring good effects, above all, in increasing budget revenues. But at that point, it will also lead to significant negative effects and will leave a mark especially on the poorest citizens, those who live hard, who barely make ends meet, who survive today. It turned out to be true. If you remember, then we have tried to reduce this type of basic food tax to what Minister Dinkic is issuing today in his bill of law. We expanded that list, in line with what existed as a practice in the previous period, and today Minister Dinkic did not accept it, and this is the basis of our criticism, which is, above all, the lack of a special VAT rate, i.e. a reduced rate of 8% on communals and on electricity. What are we talking about here? It's much more important than anything else we're going to talk about, from publications, books and everything else, because people literally barely end up with the end. If someone who has a pension of 6,000 and someone who has a salary of 7,000 gets a utility and electricity bill, and all along with a value added tax of 18% at the general VAT rate has to pay 4,000 or 5,000, the question is how to survive, how to feed the family. It is not cheap demagogy, something that would not significantly damage the Republic of Serbia's budget, and also help Serbian citizens, those who are the poorest. This kind of redistribution of economic power can never end in any society, nor can it be carried out in our capitalist society today, but it is necessary for the state to influence its measures as in all countries of the world. And in those who are social states, or so on. The welfare countries, and in those who are slightly more prominent liberal states, there is this kind of state intervention and redistribution of economic power, above all by such measures and by freeing one part of society, those poorest layers, from paying what is not necessary to pay. This was an opportunity for the government to show that the government had taken this step forward, however, the government was obviously not ready at this time. We in the Serbian Radical Party are not doing this and we are not saying this, as I suppose the finance minister and those who support it will say, for some demagogue reasons or because we want to gain political points or as many votes as possible in the poorest of the population, but because it simply has to be done. Something similar existed even before 2000, in a much more difficult time, when people literally barely patched up with the end, when we had difficult external circumstances, so it could be much easier to apply today. As for these prices, I will remind you – when we pointed out how the prices of oil and other energys will grow, we were told that it will not happen at all; but four times in the last year and a few days we have, as they call it, the price corrections. Every time they want to increase prices, they call it a price correction. Never did the price correction refer to a price reduction, which I guess, etemologically, could also mean. It's always been about the price hike. Now we have an announcement for July. Why did I talk so much about communals and electricity? We in July have an announcement of an increase in electricity prices by 15%. If there is a new increase in electricity prices by 15%, then, with the same general value added tax rate, a dramatic increase in the cost of Serbian citizens, those who have to pay regularly, because no one will forgive them, even though some DOS leaders have urged people not to pay electricity and I don't know what everything, because they won't charge Serbian citizens that kind of cost. It was something that had to be accepted and we in the Serbian Radical Party submitted it as special amendments. We also asked for a reduction in this special rate of value added tax that you are trying to introduce for a certain number of products, those that are in the so-called so-called product. Reprolance, and they are essential, especially for food products. For Serbian citizens, we asked for a reduction, i.e. the introduction of another special rate, which is 1%. So, to make these basic provisions available to every man, to give and equalize opportunities, the right and the chance for anyone who has little money, who has little income, small wages, small pensions in relation to those who don't care if it's 1, 8, 18 or 180%. So, you can't even out in who's going to buy a yacht and a speedboat, because it can buy 1% of people, you can't buy 10% of people who can buy a place or I don't know where, but this is what we can do for every citizen in Serbia and that's what we do for our job. That is why Serbian Radical Party MPs have submitted such a kind of amendment. What is done in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration is something that is not good to do in Serbia. Every time we have, I think we've pointed that out more than once, so-called. secondary legislation. We can no longer understand whether these provisions are contained in a set of judicial laws or in a set of financial laws, because someone wants to take over from himself and those regulations that do not belong to him under the Constitution or the law. I forgot to mention something else about the previous law, the position of a farmer, before I move on to the law on administrative fees. So, the bottom line is that we asked our amendments, the MPs of the SRS, to remove farmers from the obligation to pay taxes on income from citizens on agricultural incomes, because they participate in one chain in which broad obligations towards the state are met, from VAT to anything else they have to report in accordance with the law. This would encourage agricultural activity in our country incomparably stronger. As for the republican administrative taxis, the increase again, some call for some sort of coordination. That coordination always goes to the heart of the interests of Serbian citizens, most of those who have the least opportunities, I would say that they are paying for it, that all their obligations are at peace. It is also an unpopular measure and obviously we will not be able to prevent anywhere and in any way any minister in the Serbian government from taking part in such measures. Surely they will be in the future, whoever comes to power, in any other way, but I think all of this could have been better solved, by being able to tell the citizens of Serbia – here, we have done something to make you live better and that will make your prices lower. I'm afraid even the way the controls were conducted earlier, and told to the people -- yeah, now we're going to cut that tax, but you can increase it immediately by increasing the price on the market, so that, out of bread, honey, grain, we don't jump everything for the citizens of Serbia, as much as today or tomorrow, the moment we pass this law, I'm afraid that this is not all done in agreement with the executive authorities, which I don't have any material evidence of, but we do seem to have evidence in practice, in what was happening and what we can call a custom. I call on you, Ministers, and the assembly majority, to accept the numerous amendments of the Serbian Radical Party MPs, not to damage the state budget, so that we do not damage the state significantly, and to help the citizens a great deal, especially the poorest layer of the population that today in Serbia is really barely making ends meet. It is our obligation, to ensure the future for all children in Serbia, because society of equal opportunities for everyone, especially those who come, is what we should all stand for.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16538	Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16539	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here are a few comments, since some things have been made, the MP's proposals, there were a few incorrect things, so let me point to that. In fact, the VAT on municipal services is already 8%. So it can't be reduced, because it's already 8%, it's not 18%. As far as electricity is concerned, there is 18%, but I would draw attention to the fact that the electricity tax was 20%. So, in this case, we have introduced some kind of parallelism; we have reduced from 20 to 18, and according to the relevant EU directive, electricity is at a normal VAT rate, not at a reduced rate. I want to say a few more things. The predecessor proposed the elimination of income tax for farmers. We already did it last year – farmers do not pay taxes on annual income in 2004 and 2005. This assembly adopted it in November of the month. So, just one reminder, because it's an incorrect data statement. The annual income tax for farmers is not paid in 2004 and 2005. Also, the utility now has an 8% VAT rate. So the rate has already been reduced, there is no need to lower it, and electricity cannot because we have an appropriate European Union directive that prohibits it. As for the misunderstanding by some MPs of my sentence on subsidies for agriculture, I did not say that we would lift subsidies for agriculture, but would find it difficult to find room for their further growth. We've increased these subsidies from eight to 20 billion, and we're going to keep them at that level, and we're going to try to increase them slowly, but we don't have room for any more expansion growth to protect farmers more through that mechanism. The only way is to get funds from the European Union. So negotiations with the European Union on funds will be for infrastructure and agriculture. That's where the most funds will be withdrawn. I must say, it will depend, first of all, on the efficiency of the state administration. That is why these laws on government and state administration are very important, which will be discussed in this assembly, because the experiences of different countries on the withdrawal of these pre-accession funds are very different. Slovenia totaled 92% of the funds allocated to it by the European Union, while, for example, Greece only withdrew 40% of the funds at the time, and the Hungarians withdrew about 50% of the funds because the capacity of the state administration was such that they were not capable of being offered and intended and withdrawn. That is why it is very important to build a professional state administration, which we will work on if the Assembly helps us, and I believe it will, and adopt the appropriate law on state administration and government. As for the book, we had a lot of meetings with publishers and between options whether to be a rate for the book 8%, as it is now, with the right to refund the previous tax, or zero rates without the right to deduct the previous tax, all publishers made a calculation to pay more to be 8%, but with the right to deduct the previous tax. That's why it remained unchanged in this law. Finally, as for the proposal to introduce third-rate food, which is one percent, I must say that the experience from all tax systems that know VAT, which are all European Union countries, shows that there is only one rate best. Even this two-foot system creates certain problems in practice, because it's very difficult to even all the products in reprolance. The third rate is not unknown in practice. A few countries have three feet. But half the budget is charged with VAT, so we're completely clear here. It would be very good if we could reduce all taxes to one percent, two percent, to zero, but objectively, half of the budget comes from VAT, and all other tax sources, including customs, participate with the remaining 50%. This is a basic tax form and therefore all countries are very restrictive and try to reduce it only where necessary, because on the other hand we have appropriate needs. We finance with 100 billion dinars a year's pension fund deficit. That's a huge amount. We finance significant spending on social protection, child benefits, disability. So 20 billion goes only for those purposes. Of course any finance minister would like to lower such a basic tax if he had the opportunity to have less spending on the other side. Some expenditures may be reduced, for example travel costs, but this is really limited and these costs are very low compared to earlier. We have these huge expenditures that you just can't cut, so you should really be careful when you propose such low rates. That sounds nice, but it's really impossible for the budget to endure at such rates, because it's 50% of all budget revenues.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16540	I thank Mr Dinkic. Next in line is MP Milan Veselinovic, and let the MP Istvan Takac be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16541	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the set of these tax laws that we are explaining here today is actually an important set of laws for the citizens of Serbia, which is why we MPs have an obligation to get them a little closer to getting to know what these legal projects are really about. In fact, like most legal projects so far, this set of tax laws is in fact just one additional imposition on the citizens of Serbia or, rather, "supplying empty into hollows". Why am I saying that? Because we release one area of value added tax, and we include other activities of the work and lives of our citizens. Let us remember that Mr. Minister has promised that fiscalising citizens and at all all economic and economic operators will be a surplus in the budget. That's right, there's a surplus in the budget, but we're wondering how our citizens live. Do citizens live better or worse? It is necessary to go across Serbia and see how the workers who have lost their businesses live, how education lives, how health workers live, how the military lives, how the police live. There, wages stagnate or increase minimally, while the consumer basket is getting heavier and heavier. We remember that the minister promised that by introducing new terminals and new devices, he would be able to monitor the work of companies, small and large, STRs and cobwebs. And, he promised, Mr. Minister, that these small, poor enterprises, or the STR, or the country's breakers, would provide this new device for the control of fiscal tills. Unfortunately, today we hear from the minister that he will only do so in those companies that are doing well and that have up to 20 million traffic. We expect that the minister will fulfil his obligation and that all those promised to obtain a terminal, a new device, will make that possible, and no law that burdens them to conclude a 150-300-euro contract by July 1st. Normally, importing and supplying these devices and terminals is likely to reinvent a company or company, which may be close to a ministry from today's government, possibly the Ministry of Finance. I will pay the utmost attention to the draft law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. For the sake of the public and citizens, we need to know what is actually reducing, where the VAT is being reduced, but who is being covered by the VAT. This is particularly said in Article 23, paragraph 1) of the Law, where it is said: the words "cheese, milk" are replaced by the words "cheese and other baker's products, milk and milk products", and after the words "ilent origin", the words "and honey" are added, and so on. Point 1a says "drink water, except bottled." So, the value added tax when buying housing is reduced from 18% to 8% wants to be replaced by taxes on the wide range of products, primarily food products, against which we are Serbian radicals. If we're already introducing VAT and drinking water, we're wondering what the citizens are getting, whether they've got reliefs or a new load. And that's how Article 8 literally describes products that are now taxed. These are, in addition to those mentioned above, cereals, sunflower, soybeans, sugar beet, oil rape, drugs, cattle food, live cattle, ticket charges (sport events, museums, galleries, botanical gardens and zoos, if the traffic of these services is not free from VAT), as well as taxation of certain goods at a special VAT rate, means drinking water delivered through a water network. This includes almost all the activities that had not been covered before, you saw for yourself, even concerts and all those cultural and sports events, which puts more pressure on Serbian citizens. Furthermore, Article 8 proposes that the finance minister be closer to the regulation of what is considered to be a change in the purpose of the residential facility, as well as the way and procedure of determining and paying the VAT difference. It's been here for five years, so at least five years that a citizen could change the purpose of a residential facility. Did it have to, because it's a long period? This period obliges citizens that if they change the purpose of housing and living space within five years they have to pay full VAT, and I think it's too long and it's a great burden for citizens. What I'm saying is that the subject of taxation is considered to be making patents, licences, trademarks and other intellectual property rights available. Therefore, with the transport of services with compensation, it is equal to any provision of services without compensation. So there are patents, licenses, trademarks, everything is taxed according to this new bill. In Article 11, tax exemption is proposed when importing assistance and equipment for disabled persons other than motor vehicles. I think this is unarranged and that it is contradictory of the minister's statement that special categories of disabled persons are exempt from paying VAT on motor vehicles. Furthermore, Article 17 suggests that only VAT bonds dealing with the traffic of secondhand goods, including second-hand motor vehicles, works of art, establish the basis for the calculation of VAT as the difference between the sales price and the purchase price of goods, with the deduction of VAT contained in that difference, under the condition prescribed by law. We know that the tax on this used product has already been paid once, whether it is a car or any other object, so why tax that same product again. I think this, although they swear to the European Union, is not in line with the laws of the European Union. Furthermore, not to say that the obligation to keep VAT records is 10 years, because it is one new administration and one new imposition for businesses and all those that are bonds of VAT payments. Article 25 suggests that the finance minister draws closer to the office of what is considered to be good and services directly related to religious activity. Right here, regardless of this interesting expert group, these are really great powers that the finance minister now decides which are good that are in the interest of religious communities. I believe this is too high, as is the over-authorization of the finance minister. We have a lot of concerns, as I initially said, that this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Value Added Tax will not make citizens of Serbia any relief, but simply add to taxation of other areas, and above all, the worst in this law, it is taxation of food and agricultural products. Whether this assembly majority will adopt this set of laws, I believe that citizens of Serbia are living worse every day, that it will not do them any good. We simply explain and explain only those legal projects that add additional burden to the citizens, and we cannot create any relief for them. For this reason, I propose that this assembly majority adopt amendments to the Serbian Radical Party, which would improve these legal projects, and we would at least partially go out to meet the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16542	I thank Mr. Veselinović. The word of the Messenger of the people is Takac Istvan; and let the messenger of the people be prepared for the word, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16543	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the G17 Group plus supports and will vote in favour of a set of tax laws that are on the agenda, and I will only abide by the law on amendments and additions to the Law on value added tax. The basic law, as we know, was passed in July 2004 and came into force this year. From Mr Dinkic's exposé of Finance Minister, we heard that the inflow of funds into the Republic of Serbia's budget for the first five months covers all expenditures which are budgetary commitments, which is a positive fact from the point of view of the beneficiaries of the budget, which is a sign that the government and institutions are effective. The proposed amendments and additions of the Value Added Tax Act provide for a further reduction in the tax rate by putting certain products and services from the general tax rate (18%) in the lower tax category (8%). In this way, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax provides that products representing the continent, such as products for human consumption, are taxed at a lower tax rate. The proposed amendments to the Value Added Tax Act provide for a lower rate for the following products. So, as we have heard, this is significant in cereals (and in wheat, especially since now this item is significant in the formation of the price before harvest), olives, sugar tails and sunflowers, soybeans, oily turnips, because it will come next month. Cattlemen in the next period can obtain medicines for the treatment of cattle at a lower rate. It is very important to point out that unlike the solutions so far, the complete feed mixture for the feeding of cattle has been transferred to a privileged rate of taxation, which is significant for the next period, and will be reduced by 10% of the tax on livestock feed, as well as live cattle. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on value added tax changes the way in which the first transfer of the right of access to a newly built housing is taxed. In Article 4(3) of the basic law, a special rate of 8% is prescribed, with the restriction that the facility should be used for at least five years for those needs. Therefore, it cheapens the market price of apartments and speeds up housing. The identified problem of a new way of paying taxes in the area of donations, humanitarian aid in matters is corrected on the basis of Article 27. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, provided that VAT has been paid by the Ministry of Health for goods imported and items under the grant and humanitarian aid contract, the possibility of a VAT refund since the beginning of this year. In this way, those who have had to allocate VAT funds for humanitarian aid so far, which has been frequently notified by the public through the media, particularly during May and April this year, can re-fund the funds according to the planned procedure. The same right of VAT refunding in the supply of goods and services also has religious communities. G17 plus supports this set of laws and will vote for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16544	The word of the Messenger of the people is Zoran Antić, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Nikola Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16545	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party is not satisfied with these amendments and amendments to the law. She is not satisfied with the simple reason that Serbia, Serbia's citizens, have serious problems right now, which is the economy in serious congestion and that these changes and complements only some technical corrections, possibly based on some experience that the ministry had in the previous period with the application of these laws, and that these problems are systemic laws that are necessary and that Serbian businesses do not adopt at all. It is funny that the ministry and the government themselves are spending energy on defining a fri-shop at Belgrade airport, and that there are system laws that should, say, regulate the financial market, with which they have been helmeted for a year and a half. We still don't have a value-market law, no matter what I get notice that it's going to be in the congregation procedure. We don't have the investment fund law. We don't have an investment in the economy. We have a serious decline in production, serious inflation, and of course, a growing number of workers are jobless. This is not responded by the government, not by the ministry, but by proposing these changes and additions and spending irrational energy on some of the less important things when it comes to Serbian economy and Serbian citizens. As for the VAT Act in particular, we emphasized at the moment when it was brought that it would have serious consequences for our economy. It has been shown, through this decline of production, that it happens a lot. These changes regarding apartments in any case each of the MPs, I have no doubt, supports, but there was an opportunity at the time of the Law to avoid these changes, because then we warned the government that 18% was too much of the rate on apartments. However, out of some stubbornness, the intrinsic of the Ministry or Government, I don't even know who, it didn't happen. What I think is a big problem and what is my obligation to drink sellers to say is that the Ministry still doesn't give up the introduction of fiscal cash registers to drink sellers. It's unfortunate that this country, our budget, is counting on being filled with funds made through the collection of taxes to drink sellers. There are plenty of drunk sellers in the country of Serbia, and it is obvious that by insisting on this law, the government and the ministry show that there will be even more of them, as they are not concerned about Serbia's economy and not solving problems in public enterprises, we can probably expect even greater dissatisfaction and an even greater number of unemployed. As far as customs tariffs are concerned, the concept applied by the government and the Ministry is no longer known. It is unserious that customs tariffs are changed to a relatively short deadline, it is unserious to announce a zero customs rate for some five years, and that, in particular, fruit trees are told for marketing purposes that an increased tariff on fruit imports, since they are long-term plantings, is big and serious investments, and it is necessary to know how long and what time-limit can be considered the same conditions of rejuvenation. The Serbian Radical Party has always fought against the government's discretionary rights and I must stress that we are against this member who allows the government to voluntarily reduce or increase customs rates by 50%. I suppose, given that the minister himself stressed that there is a strong resistance to the European Union due to an increase in customs rates, this clause will be used primarily to reduce customs rates. We are against this discretionary right every time it appears in these laws and I feel it is necessary here to point out that. I'd just like to say a few more words about customs tariffs to say. Unfortunately, the ministry continues to do almost nothing on the extra-carinal protection of products from Serbia, i.e. the extra-carinal protection of products imported into Serbia, and this is a big problem, because quality does not have products comparable to domestic products and is necessarily eaten on it, and it has been talked about for a year and a half, but nothing has been done either. Another of my obligations relate to a law that treats the tax procedure, i.e. in part and compulsory social security. There are too many interest on unpaid tax obligations, a large number of farmers, hundreds of thousands of people, who make ends meet and who have not paid social and pension insurance, and annual interest almost doubled that debt. It is necessary to make one more serious analysis, because I am sure that a large number of these agricultural households are not really able to pay them. During the earlier period, the interest rate was partially reduced thanks to inflation, i.e. the amount of interest was cancelled in this way, but due to the decline in inflation and relatively strong euros, a major problem has arisen for citizens as their tax obligations double each year. These are plant interest rates that greatly exceed the interest of all business banks. With regard to administrative fees, it is obvious that in the previous year and a half we have had a lot of laws that increase the state administration, which increase the number of institutions and that it is necessary to make some funding for the work of these institutions. Unfortunately, our economy in a situation like this is unable to survive by increasing the allocation of funds and increasing public spending. The Serbian Radical Party has always advocated an increase in public spending. Therefore, it is necessary for one more rational state administration, according to the potential of taxpayers and the economy itself, to solve all our economic problems. Unfortunately, there is no such awareness with the government, with the Ministry and therefore with such legal solutions and with increasing taxes. In this bill, I found only a few taxis that are shrinking, the vast majority of taxes that are increasing, and on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I protest against further taxation of Serbian citizens. In all, I think we have no reason to support the ministry's and government's relationship to the problems of Serbia's economy and the citizens of Serbia. It is necessary that as soon as possible, the Ministry imagine and appear before MPs with more serious laws that would treat the problems of our economy and citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16546	The People's Messenger Nikola Milosevic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16547	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I sincerely regret that Mr. Secretary has not found the time and will to hear what I am about to say, but for that I have no responsibility whatsoever. Of course I welcome all the reliefs the so-called law provides. The VAT, but I would like to draw your attention and attention to the absent minister, if that comes to him, to the two segments of the proposal that we are talking about, which deserve our critical attention. Mr. Minister here said that the value added tax in the future will not burden those unsold goods that foreign customers return to us because it does not meet certain standards. That's perfectly logical, you can't burden yourself with value added tax with something that doesn't make any value, you haven't sold anything. If so, here is my question for the absent minister – why not release the tax on the added value of so-called. Remittende. Let me remind you of the meaning of that word. Remitenda, these are the copies of the sheets that have not been sold, so again the goods that you have not sold and by which, logically, you have not acquired any value. If it is not burdened with the value added tax of goods returned from abroad because it does not satisfy certain qualities, why is VAT burdened on goods, if they are goods leaves, it is understood, which belongs to the so-called ‘V’. A remittendo, so long before the numbers of sheets that are not sold by quality are no different from those of the numbers that are sold? So, there can't be two arches for the same thing, especially since the remittende applies an archein for which there's no excuse. However, I would like to draw your attention to the political consequences of such application of the value added tax. The use of VAT does not burden those who have their finances abroad, whether it is George Soros, whether it is a German concert, some. Only those who are exclusively supported on the market are burdened, and thanks to which, and I would especially like to stress, there is still no complete media oneness in this country. The media unambiguousness has flooded already our electronic media which, of course, is not burdened because they do not have this kind of problem, because they do not have a remittent, so here we are witnessing an incredible publicity which is obtained by one person named Natasa Kandic and who in electronic media shows himself as the champion of the interethnic tolerance struggle, and we have all witnessed that this same lady who is fighting for interethnic tolerance has been slapping here in the heart of a Serb from Kosovo. So, this same person who accuses Mr. Nikolic, without any evidence, of being a murderer. Please, such a media hack may be just for reasons that are not political. There are three assumptions, not political, for someone's favoriteism in electronic media: intelligence, knowledge and beauty. You tell me which of the three assumptions is satisfied by Natasa Kandic. I'm afraid of none. While that is the case, does it make any sense for the remittende to be taxed and that in this way the few words critically congregated about the same Natasa Kandic are placed in an unfavourable financial position. [[Applause]] I would also like to draw your attention once again to what Mr. Obradovic was talking about. He presented here information that shows that the absence of reliefs that we hoped for publishing work, and I was very hoping and very disappointed, again leads to extremely harmful not only political, but primarily cultural consequences. I fully understand, and that is quite justified, that today the state does not appear in the role of sponsorship, and thus also the mentor of publishing activity, because it is politically harmful and supports the political monopoly. If that is the case, it is inappropriate and undesirable in every way that publishing activity continues to be burdened with value added tax. I have to tell you, that's not what they're guessing. great publishers, because they do business not caring for basic legal norms. Let me take one example of that in favor. Mr. President of the Assembly will be best able to judge it as a man of publishing. I am the head of the Board of Directors of Milos Crnjanski's Office by the legacy of the late Mrs. Crnjanski. Let me say something without thinking of talking about some personal interest right now. As chairman of the Management Board, me and all its members work free, as is the order and as appropriate. We are holders, however, of copyright for all works of Milos Crnjanski. We find out from the papers, more specifically from "Politics" that "Politics" together with "The People's Book" has decided, not to ask for copyright from our employee, to publish "Seobe" Milos Crnjanski. I know it's a tough word, but unfortunately it's true – it's pirate behavior in our publishing. Such pirate houses that are so pirated will not be particularly affected by the absence of relief from value added tax. Those houses that respect basic legal norms will be affected and, to speak moral language, the basic rules of fair conduct on our market. I'm very sorry that I had to say all this; I wouldn't have, frankly, felt good if I hadn't said it. I don't think it's gonna feel right for anyone in this country if these remarks, whether they come from me or from someone else, don't think twice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16548	Thank you, Mr. Milosevic. The People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Bosko Ristic be prepared. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16549	In addition to everything said by academic Professor Nikola Milosevic about the leader of the gang of traitors in our country – Natasa Kandic, I can only add that beauty, intelligence and knowledge are certainly preconditions for someone to talk about what we are, as a state and people. But it's essential that someone has a sense of belonging to their people, which is what this particular character is, otherwise one of the leaders of the drug mafia, associated with the Shiptar drug mob, of course not. As she was doing and what she was saying, with the help of Veran Matic and the media who had stretched out that unsuspecting story, she will answer; I hope there will be a certain punishment for everything she has said, and what is absolute lies and nonsense. As for the package of laws that continue to regulate fiscal policy in our country, and that is what concerns and interests the citizens of Serbia today, both those who are employed and those 980,000 or over millions of unemployed, we Serbian radicals have great objections to how this fiscal policy is being led by current Minister Mladjan Dinkic. With my sharp protest as an SRS MP, which the minister of one day in principle does not wish to attend until the end, usually stays an hour or two or returns before the end of the session. I'm going to make some of that, because it's really a short time, which we disagree with, and thus we represent a marked discrepancy between a huge number of Serbian citizens because they are not in a situation that, through such a fiscal policy conducted by Mladjan Dinkic and the Republic government, they live normally. They cannot meet the basic conditions for existence, so there is a quarter of the total Serb population below the lower poverty threshold. Because Minister Dinkic could not respond properly in the remarks made by the deputy head of our parliamentary group, Mr Aleksandar Vukic, I (although he is not present, will probably be given to him by his associates or his party colleagues) in favour of these claims by Mr Vukic. When it comes to average electricity consumption in Serbia, it is still on a medium or high level, for the simple reason why people, and especially in winter days, are not in a position to shift to some other kind of heating because they have no money for basic existence and because of the lack of concern of numerous local self-government. So there are almost one third of my citizens in Kragujevac, and I believe that in many other cities in Serbia, except Vojvodina where the situation may be different, forced to use electricity as a means of heating the household. The value added tax of 18% on electricity, which is anti-constitutionally tariffd into three categories, which we talked a lot about, with constant accumulation, first big shocks in Djelic's and DOS' time, 2001, 2002, when that collection even reached, depends on where zone, or tariff, and incredible 500%, to the latest purchases that are announced to us in July of 15%, is something that burdens citizens. Especially those who would like to be gassed and connected to the heat pipeline, but do not have the funding for it and do not have a credit line to take credit from the banks. So, we come up with an incredible figure in the average household debt, and that average debt is about 20,000 dinars, with in many cases, such as Kragujevac, Kragujevac, Belgrade or Vranje, the average debt being about 20,000 dinars, which is in many cases, such as the town of Kragujevac, the average is much higher, for the simple reason that you have people who have lost their jobs, being driven to the street from the Zastava factory or some other, third, and they have no money to pay for electricity because they have no income. It even happened that complete settlements were shut off the net because of non-payments. In the amendment to the Law on Value Added Tax, there is no real issue for every resident of our country, and these are basic provisions of life. When you talk about the consumer basket, about the average income in Serbia, about what, how and how it shows the Republic Statistics Institute, you take the basic provisions of life that are needed in certain quantities for a three-member or four-member household. If it is now the intention of Mladjan Dinkic and the current government to wave at a special rate of 8% on these products as a big profit, they are wrong, because it is obvious, based on all the experiences so far, that there will be no reductions in this regard. And it is obvious that Serbian citizens cannot even endure 8%, for the simple reason that, under the pressure of Serbian radicals, the sales tax on all these items was abolished until the entry into force of the new VAT law. We now believe that these listed products, and they are indeed many, with children's clothes and shoes, bread, milk, meat and all that is needed by one average resident, should be taxed at another special rate, and the third in the existence of this law, which is 1%. The value added tax is, with the amazing taxation of what is important for citizens' existence, with the incredible fiscal repression being carried out in a very often inappropriate manner and in those who are not large bonds, but people who are trying to provide existence for their family members, in a large degree of enforcement. This is what Mladjan Dinkic boasts as a great success of him personally and the ministry he leads, thus expressing a budget surplus. However, he cannot tell us that it is possible, then, that with such a "rational" business, and it is not really about managing public finances, a huge number of Serbian citizens do not have the social assistance they are looking for. There is no national strategy in defining what is a basic social requirement for those who are unemployed, for single parents, for people with special needs, for people with disabilities, for those who (and only through some crumbs, depends on where, in Kragujevac it is the lowest possible degree) help local self-government, but the state does not manage systematic and continuous care for these people. When it comes to amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, from all amendments submitted by the Serbian Radicals, where what is most annoying to you, especially you who are not at all interested in these laws, there are only 20 of you in the O.R., so the camera and fixed only to the one who speaks and to the chairman, you can see that the jurisdiction in the area of the judiciary is taken over by the executive authority, i.e. the minister, in an inappropriate manner and in a way that will further destimulate and choke the taxpayers. Both present ladies, the Ministry of Finance ladies, have no possibility, in the absence of Mr Dinkic, who escaped after an hour, to answer me, and Dinkic did not do so throughout his ministry. Here, today, who knows which time I ask, when it comes to tax policy laws – at what rate is the unpaid tax charged to the taxpayer? I would very much like Minister Dinkic to come out and tell us that, because I confidently claim that the payment of interest on outstanding taxes, i.e. taxes, is not done at a legally established rate and that it is all relative from city to city, or from one to another center of tax administration. Have the minister come out to deny me, and I'll have him with the data, as well as the fact that we still have that Djelic law that says in one part that the property tax has been released in one part of his face for over 65 years. No one respects that, at least not in the city I live in. Because of this, daily complaints were brought against the head of the IRS in my city and his associates. As for the Customs Tariff Act, the nomenclature, harmonisation and harmonisation with what the current government requires of the EU, you did not have to enter it as the main reason in the explanation, because it was something that was done at the time of the former SFRJ and the SRJ, only then it was done at the level of the Federal Assembly, one and the other. Here is another issue: how it is possible that this government and the finance minister themselves are not in a position to explain why the full harmonisation between the two Member States has not been carried out when it comes to agricultural products. I don't think this job is finished, or a single customs regime for about 50 agricultural products. And to comment on the current situation with regard to another Member State towards us, where you have known this for many years, criminal separatist leadership headed by Milo Djukanovic, now Montenegro's prime minister, when it comes to the latest case of import ban, as they say, that is, the transportation of mineral waters from Serbia to Montenegro. Harmonisation of these customs rates was carried out, imagine who, during DOS rule – Cedomir Jovanovic, who did not know how to explain the difference between the different customs tariffs for the same man's coat in Montenegro and Serbia. Also, with these agricultural products. But it is not clear to us that the government now headed by Kostunica, with the alleged new finance minister, who does nothing different from Bozidar Djelic, is simply continuing the continuity of the same policy, able to tolerate such a thing and to miss the possibility of that harmonisation being done, which is why it is unable to do so, and if it is, let us admit it. When it comes to amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, our basic objection concerns Article 5 of the proposed law, i.e. Article 27 of the existing law, paragraph 2 which reads: ′′ If, in accordance with the law governing the income tax of citizens, for a certain period, it does not determine and does not pay the income tax on income from agriculture and forestry on cadastrian income, the basis of the contribution for that period is the lowest monthly basis of the contribution provided for in Article 38 of this Act. ′′ In such cases, we do not think that basics should be established at all, because agricultural producers are already conditioned to pay mandatory pension insurance. Pensions to farmers are almost two years late. They are in a very bad position, because there are no subsidies from the state, due to the present import lobby when it comes to the production of vegetables and fruits, they barely cover their costs, some may even operate with loss. People have to do it, it's something they have in their family tradition and it's even more characteristic of this climate; they're forced to try to live on it, but it gets worse and worse every day. If you start with Serbia, start from the north to the south, and talk to people, regardless of what their actions are – of course, these are all honest people, which you may not meet, but who are talking to us, crying for help and asking us to influence through these amendments to pay these tax taxes – you will see that the situation is getting worse and worse from day to day. The homeless woman is so present that people are thinking about how they will survive, how to welcome the next winter, because there is no money out of nowhere; pensioners are sick with pensions that are persistently late and the minister boasts about the surplus; there is an announcement that they will be reduced by 40% through a new way of accounting, and they have been reduced since 2003, since this indexing model was introduced that is still in place. All of these are sufficient reasons not to accept the proposed legislative projects and try (who knows when it will be, according to this new Rules of Procedure) to convince you of all our amendments, to bring citizens into at least a slightly more favourable position than they are now.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16550	The word has a folk MP Bosko Ristic, followed by Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16551	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that the tax system with value added tax, with fiscalization, is necessary and necessary, in order to introduce order in the payment of taxpayers' financial obligations to the state. I believe that this is the way and way for Serbia to become part of the integrated economic system of Europe, which we tend to do otherwise. These are standards that Serbia had to introduce in order to equate itself in terms of making peace with developed Western European countries. However, some solutions, primarily from the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, suggest that the state shows a tendency to take very repressive measures towards Serbian citizens who have any tax obligation. One such measure is the introduction of a temporary measure to secure the tax claim in a forced charge from taxpayer's money. What does that mean? The state has prescribed that tax authorities may prescribe temporary measures immediately after the decision has been made. Otherwise, there is a rule in the tax procedure and a practice established by the law that the complaint does not retain the execution of the solution. Any solution made by the tax authorities shall immediately enter into force, by delivering to the taxpayer, it shall become enforceable. In addition, the promoter requests that the state, through the tax authorities, have the right to immediately confiscate the property of the taxpayer, regardless of whether the tax debtor has made an appeal and pointed out on the law the justified reasons that he does not owe so much or that an illegal tax obligation has been imposed on him. Very often, the tax authority imposes a tax liability on the wrong person, due to a confusion about the identity of the taxpayer. Thus, the state puts itself in an unequal, privileged position compared to the citizens. This is not the meaning of a legal ancestor to whom we should seek, where there should be a rule of law and where citizens and states would be leveled before the court and even before the law in the procedures that are directed towards citizens. This points to the willingness of the state to even enter into a tax debtor’s apartment with some kind of passion and past the decision of the court, where the tax authority is even trying to place itself above the court, because if it delivers a solution to the court and its executive judge, the court is obliged, contrary to the Implementing Procedure Act, to allow the IRS to enter the IRS’ apartment within 15 days. This violates many constitutional rights: the right to the invulnerability of the apartment and the right to restrict this most significant right of citizens only by a court decision. In this way, the finance ministry indirectly acknowledges that the Executive Procedure Act is not good, that it is ineffective, and that is a special message to potential investors in Serbia who come outside Serbia's borders that they cannot effectively protect their rights and their claims. Otherwise, in Serbia's assessment of the judicial system given by the World Bank, there is one criticism that the claim in the executive procedure is charged on average over a period of 1006 days. It is an extremely long period to collect claims and talks about the lack of legal protection of investors in Serbia. With this proposal, the Ministry of Finance amends the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration requires that this execution be transferred from court proceedings completely to administrative proceedings, in which the tax authority would incoherently decide. This is contrary to the Constitution, the Implementing Procedure Act, the Law on Courts where their jurisdiction is established. In this way, a unique judicial system is being violated. Only the tax authority has the right to order the judge to make a decision within 15 days. What to say for citizens whose lawsuits last for 10 years, and the execution is a new lawsuit that lasts another 10 years; and what to say to the justice minister, who promised to introduce order in Serbia's courts by June of this year, and that citizens will have the right to a timely and effective legal remedy. The finance ministry is in collegiate with the Justice Minister's promises and I think that's the government's problem. We, as opposition, indicate to Serbian citizens that the Justice Minister's promises remain an empty letter on paper and that this promise of the efficiency of the judiciary has nothing to do with it. This is the case in the courts, judges who are overcrowded with numerous cases, ineffectiveness of individual courts in solving cases. All of this breaks across the back of citizens, through their rights, and all of this costs Serbia's citizens, so the givings and the basis for tax collection are extremely large, so we have a set of state mechanisms that live on the burden of citizens. What I want to point out is the issue of inequality between citizens and the state before the law and in court proceedings. A court enforcer may, without delay, enter the taxpayer and make a list of things, regardless of whose things are in the debtor's apartment, without obligation to establish the taxpayer's own relationship with the things that are listed to him. This all says that the state is only willing to take, but without any responsibility, because when you enter someone's apartment by emergency procedure, day or night, you list all the things that are found in the apartment, regardless of whose things, when you take those things away and sell them at public auction, the question of the responsibility of the state is when they're wrong, and often the state is wrong. Often, the state makes wrong decisions, especially in the administrative procedure, which are subsequently annulled by the Supreme Court. However, there is also a problem here that judicial protection is ineffective and that the Supreme Court only after more than a year and a half makes decisions on complaints in administrative disputes. It happens that many taxpayers, meanwhile, fail because their giro accounts are baselessly blocked or because they were deprived of labour and sold out on auctions. Regardless of the view of the legislator of the law, I believe that he wants to get himself very large powers, which are contrary to the Constitution and the system of judicial laws that define the role of courts and the right of citizens always for timely judicial protection. I'm sorry the finance minister isn't here. I want the finance minister to ask one question. Tax control devices have almost been introduced through the GPRS system, 180,000 devices have been purchased or there is an obligation to purchase, with software license and hardware. According to my knowledge, which comes from the Ministry of Finance, these devices were purchased from the Erikson firm. We witnessed the opening of the Ericsson affair, involving some high-ranking officials of the Serbian government, primarily Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus, and the question arises whether the purchase of 180,000 fiscal units, hardware units, via Ericson and the procurement of licences from Ericson has just been revealed. That's why I want the finance minister here to publicly explain to the citizens whether the information is correct. If not, let it be denied, and if it is, let it explain to the citizens of Serbia how difficult the job the finance ministry has concluded with "Erikson", were there tenders and under what conditions, were there more bidders for this extremely expensive job in Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16552	Thank you. Mr. Ristic, do you want to formulate this as a parliamentary question and send it to the Ministry? (Bosko Ristic, from the post: Call the minister here to respond. Well, to answer that, the minister is here on the board. The People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Susan Grubjesic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16553	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is not correct to combine seven points of the agenda into one, or seven legislative proposals, to consider as one, as it is not correct, and even less inspiring to speak in front of a half-empty or, rather, almost empty room. But these are the blessings of the new Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which most in this room voted. A lot has already been said about these legal proposals that are on the agenda, and I will look only at a few of them to point to some of the illogicalities shown in these legal proposals. As far as the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax is concerned, I must say that practice is repeated and that the Proposer has not learned from the errors of the predecessors. Four years ago, and a little over four years ago, the previous finance minister went to the assembly with a proposal for a traffic tax law, where he taxed everything alive. He taxed even those products, products that were never previously taxed by sales taxes, such as textbooks, medicines, and other products. Later, the minister realized that it was wrong, so she developed this ex-post mind, so on a few occasions he corrected, so he lifted some tax rates on some products, some decreased, etc. The current finance minister, instead of being taught and taught by the experience of his predecessor, with whom he was otherwise a close friend and associate, and to determine and separate in the beginning, performs the correct selection of those products, goods and services that should not be taxed or needed at a lower rate, goes the same way. And he taxed everything and everything at the highest rate, so that now he could work on that ex-post mind and he'd start to correct himself. That correction is good, except that correction isn't enough from our point of view. It must be more significant in the coming period, i.e. it should be more important today, to include more products, more services, in order to make Serbia's citizens' standards even better. But the minister has his own bill, and he probably has the congregation's majority that what he's up to and vote on. As far as the proposal for a tax procedure law and tax administration, amendments and additions to the law are concerned, it is also quite said. The law is essentially restrictive for taxpayers. We've heard that to a large extent the ministry takes over the role of both the court and the police and that it makes solutions, implements those solutions, implements executions, which is not normal. I will point to one member and the illogicalities that appear in it, although the Serbian Radical Party has tried through the amendments to remove many shortcomings in this law, and we will explain this in detail. But given that the time of this new rules of procedure has been shortened there, I will briefly refer to Article 27 of the amendment, which refers to Article 131 of the basic text. I'm sorry the minister isn't here, but I hope his associates record this and pass it on to the minister, so that this amendment of ours can be accepted to correct this illogicality. In fact, Article 27 provides for one change relating to the duration of the ban on performance. In fact, Article 131 states: "In the course of tax control, the tax inspector may impose a ban on the taxpayer to perform activities for up to 30 days." This has been changed by new changes, so that ban is no longer up to 30 days but 60 days. It is therefore proposed to ban up to 60 days in cases, so under 1), that the activity is carried out in such a way that the goods and services are not followed by credible documentation of the importance of tax determination, such as severance, invoice, customer statement, etc. 2) avoids the identification and payment of taxes by not paying the daily market, in accordance with the regulations; 3) avoids the identification and payment of taxes by working persons who do not have a final labour contract or other labour contract entered in accordance with the regulations; 3) avoids the identification and payment of taxes by persons who do not have a final work contract or other labour contract in accordance with the regulations; and if those persons are not notified to the competent social security organisation; 4) the traffic from the sale of goods or provision of services is not registered through the fiscal register or in any other manner prescribed way. The promoter now foresees to increase the sentence to 60 days, but the argument applies only to this point 4), in fact, the reason for this extension is this point 4) – if traffic is not registered through the fiscal register or in another prescribed way. It doesn't make any sense that just because of one point of these four, this punishment increases to 60 days. What's still illogical here is the second position of this member, which is added to this proposal. The second position states: ′′The ban on the exercise of activity to the taxpayer shall be imposed on the business premises of the taxpayer in which irregularities referred to in Article 1(1) to (4) of this Article have been identified during tax controls. ′′ This is clear, if the taxpayer has more, if it is the trader, the store, and one of them finds that he does not register traffic through the fiscal register, then the facility, that shop, is temporarily closed. Now I ask you - what happens if a taxpayer, say a construction company performs works in another city, at the facility of another taxpayer and if he did not hire his workers there, reported or adequately provided, which is covered by this point 3), which of his facilities will, in that case, be closed, or temporarily closed? I don't think this is logical, and it's not a good solution, that this fourth point should have been singled out as a special point of view in order to better clarify and clarify it. As far as the proposal for a customs and customs tariff law is concerned, I'm just going to take a brief look at what's mostly said. So by 2001, when DOS came to power, Serbian economy was literally destroyed. Two are the causes of this destruction of the Serbian economy. The first is the Privatisation Act, which is disastrous, and the second is a set of customs laws that open the Serbian market to foreign goods and thus the Serbian economy is put to a standstill. It is not correct that today here, Mr. Vlahovic, who is the creator of the Privatisation Act, criticises Mr. Labus who is the creator of this law, the creator of that 2001 customs law, because they were together then, were a unique DOS and everything that was done then was supported on both sides. Mr. Labus was then the Vice-President of the Federal Government and, as such, was the initiator and creator of that customs law, which effectively customs duties on imports of goods and goods from abroad were abolished, so that the most profitable business in Serbia was actually imports, and today it is. All kinds of things have been imported, which, of course, put our economy out slowly, and then Vlahovic finished the business with his Privatisation Act. Today, these proposals are trying to improve the situation in this sphere, but unfortunately, these proposals that are ahead of us today are not enough to make the situation significantly better. There are still some illogicalities we've already heard of here. Some products, and we still have zero customs rates, no customs duties, even though we have these products, or we have plenty of them; rather, for some of them manufacturers don't know what to do with them, they can't place them, they can't sell them. We release these products from customs and allow their imports to be made. We also have a rush or the worst goods of broad consumption, various goods of dubious quality, relatively cheap, on our market, all of which are made possible by these customs regulations that are in force. I say once again, nothing important has changed or improved these proposals. What is new in these customs regulations is the right to remain with the Government – that in the event of market disturbances it can intervene by changing customs rates for certain products and that these customs rates increase or decrease by 50%. It may not be such a bad provision that another government is currently in power in Serbia, but we do not trust this government. It seems to me that this government will only use that possibility to lower or lift customs rates and to enable even greater imports of these cheap products from abroad and thus further destroy our economy, because it seems to me that this government does not have the strength or courage to protect our economy by increasing customs rates. I'd take this opportunity to pay attention to Mr. Secretary, although he's not here right now, I hope his associates will pass on some things that may not be directly related to these proposed laws, but they're related to the Ministry of Finance. He's only referring to that ministry, and I'd like them to listen to me for a little while, so they can get the minister to check something out and take some appropriate measures. First, I want to inform Mr. Minister that there is no oil in Serbia, regardless of all the stories that it will be, that there is intervention imports, but there is still no oil. In Serbia now it's raspberries harvest season, there's cherry harvest, harvest starts; our peasants are on duty at the pumps waiting for the oil they need, and there's no oil. Secondly, I would like to give only one notification to Mr. Minister and the Government: the price of raspberries in Serbia is currently 40 dinars, which is below 50 cents, which is the lowest since the raspberries are produced in Serbia. This has affected Serbian peasants very badly, so there will be major problems with the production of the same raspberries in the future. However, it should be taken care of because it is a strategic product. It should be strategic, but unfortunately, I heard from the Deputy Minister of Agriculture that it will not be strategic, in fact that no product in Serbia is strategic or is at least not foreseen in the strategy mentioned to be done. Please, take a little bill, because this is really below all possible and expected prices and this destabilizes our production. It is a production that has brought up to now 100m euros in foreign exchange inflow to Serbia. The next thing I want to inform Mr. Minister is the situation at the Tax Administration in Uzic. I'd like to check what I'm about to take out by the Minister and by the Director of the Republic Tax Administration. The situation in the Tax Administration in Uzic is very dramatic and I have here a letter and a copy of a criminal report against the director of the Tax Administration in Uzic. The director is a member of the G17 Plus, there are a lot of irregularities in the Tax Administration in Uzic and I will present some things from this criminal application and ask the Minister, i.e. the Ministry to check this out and take appropriate measures. It's not about any hatred or animosity towards G17, because it's literally about irregularities that are recorded in the IRS, and I guess it's in the interest of all the citizens of Užica and the pleasure district to correct these irregularities. The Director of the Tax Administration in Uzic hired a certain gentleman, whom I will not mention, but I will not mention any other names, and even enabled him to advance in the administration, in the business, by providing him with the post of head of forced payment, and the gentleman had previously worked in a firm where he was reported for abuse of office, there was a court case, and the court verdict was blamed, but he remains in that post, regardless of the court ruling and even progresses in the service. To make the situation even more difficult and worse, the Director of the Tax Administration provides the gentleman concerned with protection through the tax attorneys. So the IRS lawyer goes to the D.A.'s office to protect the gentleman who's being charged. Also, the director of the Tax Administration in Uzic with the director of the administration from Kragujevac goes to Kosjerić for a meeting of businessmen, with the aim of clarifying the new rules in this area to the businessmen in Kosjerić, but since they do not have enough knowledge from this area, they lead three other officials from the Tax Administration, i.e. from Uzic, who will ask them questions as businessmen from Koseric. So, three people from the Tax Administration of Užice go to Koserić and are represented there as businessmen and owners of various agencies and those at the meeting instead of businessmen from Koserić are asking questions to their directors, of course questions prepared and to which directors have answers, because others do not have answers. At the end of that meeting, one of the audiences recognized the names and everything they said in the jargon was broken. The next thing that's also going on in Uzic is that the director of the Uzice Tax Administration, imagine that, has no expert exam. The director of the Uzice Tax Administration on June 14, 2005, means 15 days ago, leaves for Belgrade to pass a professional exam. Probably affected by the fact that he did not pass the professional examination of a call from the Uzic administration to pick him up by an official car, although at that time he was on vacation or vacation, he was not on regular duty. Of course, the official car is coming, which in itself represents a violation. Also, the Director of the Tax Administration in Užica does not respect his working hours, but therefore does not prevent him from enrolling himself and his close associates in an extra hour to an extent that is overly permitted, and even how informed I am, and 80 hours a month. Of course, the director handles only his party views and only extends to people who are members of the G17 Plus party in Užica, who are employed; recently eight people in the Tax Administration of Užica were employed, they got a permanent job and they were all members of the G17 Plus. Also, the selection of taxpayers is done by not controlling the facilities of those taxpayers who are close or are members of G17 plus. I'm asking my associates to pass on everything I've said to the Minister, so it's all about the criminal charges I have here. I ask that all of this be checked and that appropriate measures be taken to normalise the situation in the Tax Administration of Uzice. It is the interest of the non-Serbian Radical Party, but of the citizens of Užica and all municipalities of the pleasure region and of all taxpayers in the region. The next thing I'd like to inform Mr. Minister, because in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, is the situation at the Baja Basta border crossing. You probably know there's a border crossing to Baja's Garden-Skelani. It is a link between Bajina Basta and that part of Serbia with Republika Srpska. A recent initiative has been launched to lift customs duties there. We in Baja Basta have several companies that produce for the Republika Srpska market. In particular, it's about ′′Electro-building; it's about ′′Ciglar′′; it's about products that are very large by the gauge. It's about concrete pillars, trafo stations, brick products. There are other products, I'm talking about these that are the most significant in the gabarith and mass. By abolishing the customs duties in Baja Basta, we will be in a position to take concrete pillars, to take them to Skelane, only two kilometers from the factory in Baja Basta, they must first drive to Užice for customs duty, and then return to Bajina Basta and take them to Skelane. All because of someone's whim. I've talked to people who work at the border crossing, with customs officers who have informed me of all this and who are begging to stop this and prevent it from staying customs duty at that crossing, because it can be done by that team of people who already exist there. So nothing expands the number of perpetrators, with the same number of contractors the job can be done there, but the situation is complicated by producers, companies from Bajina Basta who have these jobs with Republika Srpska. Businesses from Baja Basta addressed the local self-government in Baja Basta with a request to intervene. I'm taking the opportunity to ask the Ministry to check this out and allow further customs duties to remain at that crossing to facilitate business for businessmen in Baja Basta.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16554	Replic why, Mr. Albianic? Some exceptions have been pointed out that otherwise there are no exceptions and that is very correct. Here you go, the party G17 plus is mentioned, but because of some of the things that are extremely happening in this space. You have no reason to answer, but please, you have a formal right.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16555	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have the right to a replica, because the party G17 plus is mentioned in a negative context for no reason whatsoever. So, in his opening statement here, Mr Dinkic said that this year, especially by introducing fiscal cash registers and VAT, it introduces order into Serbia and reduces the grey economy. You heard the minister, and as far as the tax administration is concerned, especially the apostrophe of Užice, I ask you if a test has been introduced in one Serbian service to see how people who are employed have their expertise, are they able to respond to the elemental requirements in this test? What happened? It has been shown that some members of the G17 plus lost their jobs under that test, one of the normal ways in which each professional man should be employed and work in the proper service. You are well aware that the state administration started to reduce the administration – 10% this year, which is done both in the tax administration and in other services, in one very professional and responsible way. I don't think it's appropriate for certain things to be out here on a limb, and that's why I reacted. I wonder why it bothers you to introduce order in Serbia by reducing the grey economy? You have received clear information on the positive effects of the introduction of VAT. You got everything you needed for one normal function, if that's what you wanted to hear. The other thing is if you have political reasons to try to react to certain things by political marketing, but I don't think anyone has responded in such a way in their services, no one in one normal, comprehensive and professional way has seen the human potential in their service, thus creating normal functioning, which brings us closer to countries in the region and in the countries of the European Union. I don't know why the opposition's other political party is bothered by the introduction of order. You'd have to make that clear. But certainly, as for the positive effect, both Serbian citizens are aware and know that the G17 plus, the Ministry of Finance, first of all, introduces order and creates a normal environment to work and make real money, and that the state helps the poor and those who need social care and help.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16556	Thank you, Mr. Albianic. First according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Prorokovic, then according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Jovanovic, then according to the Rules of Procedure, I suppose, Mr. Markovic. Just a moment, please, Mr. Albianic, I gave you my word under the formal law of the Rules of Procedure, and I closely followed the presentation of the MPs. On the basis of information he had given the Ministry one service, the MP drew attention, knowing that the minister was a member of the party, that he could replace that man and the party and all, therefore, did not insist on who the party was, but rather an attempt to verify whether the data was correct. That's how I realized the exposure, just by respecting the principle that you're talking about and, hopefully, we all stand for here. Here you go, Mr. Prophet, and I'm sorry to keep you waiting.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16557	Thank you. According to former Article 100, I may have little use of the Rules of Procedure, since I want to give an explanation for Mr Jovanovic's exposure to Bajina Basta, and I have no basis for replication. I am familiar with the facts relating to the opening of new border crossings between the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia towards Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina, as the right of revolutions to build new border crossings broke out in all rural municipalities. Thus, the bilateral agreement between Serbia and Montenegro, i.e. the Republic of Serbia as members of the relations, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, defined three border crossings as interstate border crossings in the full sense of that word. It is about capacities that will be built for phytosanitary control, veterinary control and all that an interstate border crossing implies. It was an agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and Serbia-Montenegro, or the Republic of Serbia. More services include, not only customs, but the MUP, the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro. The agreement sets out three border crossings that can be. There are certain standards concerning the length of the border, vehicle frequencies, goods, gross traffic across these border crossings. One seems to me, between Bogatic and Bijeljina, the second crossing is Mali Zvornik - Zvornik and the third crossing is right up towards Visegrad. Of course, the traffic of goods will be able to take place at all other border crossings, including in Baja Basta. No one will have to drive concrete pillars 40km in one direction and 40km in the other direction and the same concrete pillars, as new powers by customs authorities have the ability to control the depths of the territory of the Republic of Serbia and the authority to go to the scene. So, customs papers will go to Užice, but the immediate functional state can be determined in the "Electro-Building" warehouse in Baja's Garden. They can transport these goods from Bajia Basta to Skelano within two kilometers, without any need to circle the goods 100 and a few kilometers. That's all I'm sorry if I abused the pay phone. I don't think there's any need for a dramatic situation. So it is some inspection services that existed at the old borders between Serbia and Hungary, Serbia and Romania, but in this case between Serbia and BiH were not so far. So, three border crossings and these services will be introduced as additional, and all other existing privileges that could have been used by all other border crossings so far remain from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16558	Thank you. You're staying as wrongly interpreted? Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic. I don't understand, Mr. Markovic, you've reached out to the Rules of Procedure. Okay. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16559	I didn't call anyone and accuse them. I said, I'll read the segments from the criminal report that I received and one letter from the people of the Tax Administration from Užica, asking to check it out, to see if these are accurate, and all with the aim of improving the tax service in Užica and making it more quality than it is, and in the interest of the citizens of Užica and all the municipalities that this tax administration is serving. I haven't called anyone myself. However, I said, it stands here in a criminal report decidently that the Director of the Tax Administration has provided progress in the service (in the place of the head of forced payment) to a man who, in the previous enterprise, where he was a financial manager, committed abuse, embezzlement, for whom he was punished by a prison. If that's true, then I don't see why we talk like radicals and G17 plus, why don't we talk like ordinary citizens, ordinary people. That phenomenon must be condemned, if that's true. The phenomenon is condemned, not that Mr. G17 plus or not a member, which I don't care about. The other thing, you say, Mr. Albianic, the state administration is firing, I don't know, 10%, etc. It says here that eight new people were admitted to the Uzice Tax Administration and that all over the G17 plus came. I say again, it stands here, but it needs to be checked. I'm not saying it's like that. However, someone wrote probably based on some knowledge. I demand that he check it out. That's what I was talking about. As far as this agreement is concerned, Mr. Prophetovich, you are the creators of that agreement. So, you as a party, or your representatives, if I recall correctly. Maybe the goods won't go from Baja's Garden to Uzice, but the papers have to. Those papers have to be taken to Uzice. I don't know if he can do it by fax. I ask the question – why can people who are standing at the crossing in the Skelani not be able to exercise that control, but someone from Užica will come to do this control, that's the story. There are, I think, eight people at that crossing, eight customs officers who have done this job so far, so they've been trained professionally and have practice and experience. I'm asking why they can't do that job anymore, because it's going to simplify the whole process. That's all I was talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16560	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic, once again, I support your initiative to check everything that is said somewhere, and I particularly welcome the way you said it, therefore, especially to check for possible party membership, because it is then the reputation of the party rose. Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, as it is said, it is now an hour's break, thank you very much. And after the break, the first one has the word of MP Milan Markovic. At the same time, I thank you and allow me, because I always congratulate everyone whenever something good is done, to direct my congratulations on what happened yesterday in Brussels, and what was supposed to happen only in September. As you know, the EPP, the European People's Party, which has an absolute majority in the European Parliament, held yesterday's congress and are on top of it, and thanks to its verified contribution to European integration and proven concern for its people, in the associated membership of the two parties from Serbia, the DSS and the G17 plus, and I congratulate them. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word of the Messenger of the people is Zvonimir Stevic; and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16562	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, given that this is a set of very important legislative projects, I have defined myself to take part in a discussion concerning the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes and to be decident for the sake of the public, specifically related to Article 18 of this Law, which states: "In heading 36, a note is added, which reads - refugees and exiled persons from the territory of the former SFRY and displaced persons from the territory of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija, on the basis of the corresponding documents proving their status, the fee referred to in point 1) of this tariff number are paid by 70%." The fact that the initiator of the proposal to amend the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes is the humanitarian center for integration and tolerance has led me to report for participation in the debate on this legislative project. I believe that it can be interpreted that my exposure will be more touching this legislative project than the debate on its essential provisions, but I have defined myself for it, because these days, when the public is told about Kosovo and Metohija, only by the way, affects the position of Serbs who are threatened in almost all areas, both those who remain in their hearths and those who are exiled and who have the most frequent temporary habitat. Unaccompanied by the environment, unintegrated in the new environment, they are faced with a number of existential issues, without being able to provide minimum conditions for the normal life of children, old, exhausted and all family members. This kind of precedent in recent history could not be so qualified that even today, victims of persecution and Kosovo Serbs, threatened in all kinds of human rights, are not found guilty of such a situation, and are left without loved ones, without homes, property and have no chance of exercising their rights. They are even irrevocably and extremely thoughtlessly threatened to give up their territories, and some quasi-democrats most often speak from Belgrade to their generous gestures, allow the decommissioning of territory, endangering state sovereignty and some of their stories of Serbian guilt pave the way for the independence of our southern province. To be clear and clear, I am not surprised to hear it from them, because we almost Googled their rescue from Serbia, but I cannot understand why our institutions are not more strongly advertised by our institutions that are obliged to realise the plan for Kosovo and Metohija, which we adopted in this home, and very softly and sloppyly in practice. How many problems in the past six years have been faced by people who have been exiled from Kosovo and Metohija, by providing the necessary and any other accommodation, through job losses, problems in treating family members, schooling children and meeting other needs. A small but non-significant step would be to introduce social maps containing the needs of these citizens who could benefit from any kind of assistance, and for which the government, in particular its resolution ministries of finance, work and social issues, health care, education, etc., would be responsible. In particular, I am thinking about a whole series of measures that I have talked about for this assembly speaker on the draft labour law, whether it is about protecting, in the privatisation process, workers from Kosovo and Metohija, whether it is about removing jobs or protecting the rights of those who have lost their jobs. The Recommendation of the Humanitarian Centre to the National Assembly, given that it cannot be authorised by the legislator of the law on which it is concerned, that the local self-government congregations, by their rules of freedom of payment or by reducing the payment of taxis to at least 30% of the average amount of confidence from the parent books for displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija, is one hint of assistance to these unhappy persons, because especially those who have lost all their property and are located in collective housing and unconditional refugee centres cannot bear the same expenditure. It is just a tiny drop of water in the sea of problems faced by exiles from their homes, former prominent rural hosts, workers and craftsmen, but also by yesterday's prominent businessmen, economists, lawyers and people of all other professions. It is simple to wonder how quickly we forget the need for solidarity and help these people, as well as as people, and in institutions, we become indifferent to the troubles they have brought to them, as if we have forgotten that they are our citizens, with the same rights that apply to all other citizens of Serbia. If we could not replace many of the warmth of the family home, compensate for the lost, we could at least be responsible and in the relevant institutions create a database of these persons and speak significantly more offensively in public about their troubles and suffering. It's like no one thinks they're on their own. In the talks I often make with these people, as well as with those living in Cosmet, they bring a number of major objections, from the lack of real suggestion for Kosovo and Metohija, to the often manifested disunity of the leadership of political parties on the presence in Kosovo, to unnecessary rush when it comes to imposing a solution to Kosovo's future status and Metohija, which, on the Albanian side's insistence, pushes the international community. There are many steps that do not come across the approval of Kosovo Serbs, so it is right to ask the question: is now that talks are being held on the future status and talks of Belgrade and Pristina on possible approaches to the Kosovo node solution, there is no solution to at least delaying the dismissal of workers from certain public enterprises, e.g. Panorams and Unity. Or, when it comes to reducing employees in the state administration, could it at least temporarily have been delayed for people from Kosovo and Metohija employed in the administration? Or can't they make more up-to-date payments to workers who, not by their own fault, have lost their jobs and receive poor 4,400 dinars and so on. Finally, when it comes to this law, but above all to the initiative of the humanitarian centre for integration and tolerance, which is a significant part and motive for my exposure, why there is no better solidarity and the necessary responsibility for both UNHCR and numerous humanitarian organisations to be strongly and with the agreement of a number of state actors and institutions, it points to the difficult situation of the exiled persons and Serbs who are at risk in Kosovo and Metohija in the exercise of elemental rights. First of all, it is my intention to point out once again from this pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16563	According to the Rules of Procedure, Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16564	It's about two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, not giving me your word in five minutes to two... And do I have to report twice for the violation of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16565	Here you go, five minutes, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16566	Mr. President, I'd like to point to two violations of the Rules of Procedure. The first, or second by time you did it when you didn't give me your word, even though you had announced before that I would get the word, which was at 13.55 p.m. The practice in this parliament is that at 1400 hours, you're giving a break, and I think you did it on purpose to humiliate me in some way and prevent me from saying what I wanted to say about Mr. Albianic's statements, which were incorrect and false in the direction of what makes the Democratic Party work. In fact, Mr Albianic here said that DS is not for introducing order in Serbia, and I, Mr Albianic, am responsible for saying – the DS is for introducing order in Serbia, only the question is whether you and I have the same idea of what law enforcement is in Serbia. First, I would also like to tell you to the public that the Democratic Party supports fiscalization, that it has supported VAT and that it will support this law, so that you cannot accuse us of being against the introduction of order. But if you're in line with the gas lines, the lines in front of the drugstores of military pensioners who can't buy drugs, we don't support them. Also, Mr. Albianic, you have mentioned the DS without reason, and I am now obliged to tell you what we do not yet support and what we believe to be anarchy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16567	I'm sorry to interrupt, Mr. Markovic, but Mr. Albianic didn't say the name DS for a moment. I don't understand what you're talking about. He was talking about another opposition party. I didn't even know you were the second opposition party to recognize yourself in that. It is not correct to humiliate the party you represent. Be nice and talk about what's on the agenda. Mr. Albianic did mention another opposition party. If you think you recognize yourself in this regard, be kind and advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I'm also warning you that you can't report for breach of the Rules of Procedure and you're talking about breach of practice. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, an hour's break has been given. It is indicated that you will be the first to speak when work continues and in the meantime you just did not enter the moment it was started, I gave you my word immediately. Be kind and talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure based on facts. I'll give you back time so you don't have time to deny it, there's no reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16568	So, is what Mr. President has done now, too, under that order that you are introducing into Serbia? Is it your turn to introduce you to Serbia and that the President of Predrag Markovic has forged the Labour Act that we now have on the agenda again? Is the order that you are introducing into Serbia an affair related to the "Knjiz Milos" and the collapse of an institution that had to be independent, which is the Securities Committee? Is it your turn to have an affair with the Euroaxis Bank? Is it your turn to have an affair with the electricity that we haven't resolved in this House today? Is it the turn in Serbia when the governor of the National Bank buys a villa that has been estimated to be over a million euros and says he has a contract at 380,000 euros? Is it the order in Serbia, which introduces G17, when he pays a tax on that villa of a million and something at 375 thousand euros? Is it the turn in Serbia when in your coalition one of the coalition's parties says that Miroljub Labus is corrupt if he does not show contracts for his daughter's scholarship, and Miroljub Labus is silent about it and never shows contracts? Is that the order in Serbia? Is it the turn in Serbia when importing Syrian oil, which not only lost the state, but lost Serbian citizens because oil was not of the proper quality? Is it the turn in Serbia when the Czech debt of 12m euros is purchased less than it was supposed to be? Is it the turn in Serbia when a member of your coalition again accuses the government of murky actions of the Republic of Serbia, in connection with the privatisation of "News"? Is it the turn in Serbia that your G17 defence minister is doing in Serbia-Montenegro? Is it the turn in Serbia when the president of the government's Anti-Corruption Council says literally – the centre of corruption in Serbia is the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Is that, Mr. Albianic, the line G17 stands for? Mr Albianic, the DS is against the order that introduces G17 to Serbia, against order at gas stations, against order in front of the pharmacy and against corruption and crime that apparently exists in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16569	The basic rule is to respect the Rules of Procedure, even at the cost of being abused in this way, but it is important to hear the word of the MPs. Here you are, Mr. Albian, personally called. You're in the Rules of Procedure, here you go. The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16570	Your Honor, I've raised the Rules of Procedure from the scene to point out that I have an advantage over other speakers on this basis, and I'm advertising two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. One that Mr Albianic did incorrectly interpreting my presentation, and the other one that you did when you spoke to Mr Markovic and spoke with disrespect about the Democratic Party, allegedly because he recognized Mr Milan Markovic in the words of Albianić that the other party is the opposition in power and what I know. The way you said it was demeaning for my party. I said the essence of the injury, the president knows a member of the Rules of Procedure. I don't know about the new amended Rules of Procedure. I want to say one thing. During my presentation on the topic under discussion in the Assembly today, I said the DS advocates tax order, that all citizens of Serbia should be equal before the law and the institutions of the state. I also said that we advocate fiscalisation, because we have accepted the VAT system as the best system recognised in Europe and that this tax system is bringing us closer to European integration. Therefore, it is not true that the DS is against order, but I also asked one question that caused the replica and your reaction after my speech, Mr. President. I asked whether it was true that the Ministry of Finance acquired 180,000 fiscal units in the GPRS, which are providing information on the current situation of taxpayers and taxpayers to the ministry. Why would I ask that? Because it was obtained, according to my knowledge, without a tender and a license for hardware and software was obtained. I'm asking if that's true. I expected someone from the Ministry to say – it is true, so that he could make the bills and explain it to the MPs, or to say – it is not true, Bosko Ristic does not have the right information. So again, I ask the question -- did Ericson get 180 thousand fiscal units, where it was found mandatory to purchase them, and was the license from Erikson obtained, and did this have anything to do with the affair we heard about in the previous period where Mr. Labus was mentioned as Deputy Prime Minister? Is that the price to cover up that previous affair? That question caused a replica, and that doesn't mean the DS isn't in line. On the contrary, we stand for order, for full information and transparency in the conduct of such public affairs that we point to.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16571	Now he has the word Mr. Albianic, but let me explain. There is no reason why we deceive people who are present and work in the Rules of Procedure and by law. Nor did your exposure cause any replica, Mr Zlatan Jovanovic spoke afterwards, and Mr Albianic reflected in his presentation. It wasn't a reaction, except, since the law applies to everything, which is not possible for some to get word over the line. I asked if it was a parliamentary question because of the technique of asking. So, I wanted to help you see if the news you got was right. You stood for another way, I said – certainly, when the minister comes, we will ask for an answer, and I support it now. Once again, please, there is no reason that no matter how much an hour and a half later we claim that something happened that we all know didn't happen. So I can't disrespect someone I quote. It's really not up to me. I will always try to correctly quote what is stated. Also, in the future, I will not really allow it, because it has gone beyond all limits, that people are being accused so unskilled, as Mr Markovic just did. I'll react anyway. So far, I have not responded when it comes to me, but when, in the future, such a qualification is pronounced, of course I will be making warnings, because I am obliged to protect myself from such attacks. Here you go, Mr. Albian, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16572	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what my dignity does not allow me to discuss in this way, as Mr Markovic of the Democratic Party discusses, because my dignity does not allow me to use such a dictionary and thus the flat, incorrect and false findings. What is amazing, Mr. Markovic, may be burdening you with a certain past, but it is not likely that I now have to remind you of Janjusevic-Kolesar's affairs in the Bodrum affair, and that I am now in front of Serbian citizens in this way responding to the countersuits of the accusations that you have made here. I really think it makes an additional bad impression on parties of democratic orientation in the Serbian Parliament. If that past burdens you, dissolve it in your party, if your status in your party burdens you, so you seem to be able to regain some of your image here at the assembly speaker in such a way, you are certainly mistaken. After all, you must bear in mind that you are the vice president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has resolved the bad situations from the past and from the Parliament itself, from the affairs of the executive government, by passing the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, so you are no longer able to do such things, not just you, but anyone working in the executive government and here among MPs. You know very well that MPs cannot be members of more than one board of directors, which was not the case before. You've said a lot of things. As for the privatisation of "News", what does G17 plus have to do with this story, except that Nikola Novakovic, as chairman of the Privatisation Committee, did not want any affair to take place, invited interested people to the Privatisation Committee and explained to each other what it was about? Nothing to do with G17 plus having anything to do with it. It's a matter of institutional functioning and the functioning of courts, if there are some controversial things. It's interesting to mention the so-called. The "Prince Milos" affair that didn't exist. It did not exist by the Assembly or by the executive authority. Perhaps some tycoons wanted to influence the tycoons to transfer their actions to someone, for us a bad tycoon from the past. Is it possible, because you yourself know the conclusions of the Survey Committee, which are not announced here, that you say something like that? Also, how can you speak in such an unworthy way by mentioning the Army of Serbia-Montenegro? The property of an army located in Serbia's territory, which you well know, is protected by the regulation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and cannot be sold beyond the government's decision, without tendering and any other activities carried out in the appropriate procedure and through the institutions of the system. How is it possible that you are trying to attach such things to a party who not only advocates the introduction of order but also seeks to raise the level and reputation of this institution and all other institutions in Serbia, for the sake of the better future of this country, for the sake of the European path, to jointly raise what is relevant for the functioning of the state in the future? We must have influenced together here to raise the reputation of the Serbian Parliament to a more dignified level. Please, for this reason, do not belittle this high congregation home with your speeches. Also, you mentioned so-called. affairs that did not exist in the previous period, such as the so-called The Erikson affair. You know very well that the papers are presented to the press, that they are divided, and so are you, if you are interested, but I am being defeated by the fact, Mr. Markovic, that you are informing yourself from "Kurir". If you need information, you can come to me and see what the facts are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16573	Thank you. I hope this is informal advertising of some new agency. The word has a People's MP Markovic. Mr. Markovic, is this a replica of Mr. Albianic's exposure or is it according to the Rules of Procedure? Here, you have a word on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16574	Mr. President, I would like to tell you first – explain to me in which member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly it says that a replica is not allowed. Please help me, guide me.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16575	Now it is Article 104, as before, the President decides on the basis of the first two positions whether there is a basis for replication and says – there can be no replica on the line, but it is not disputed, that we are now wasting time, I will give you the Rules of Procedure, it is time for you, as Vice-President of the Assembly, to get to know each other in detail in order to facilitate our work, and that is the goal of all MPs. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16576	I have to tell you that the secretary and deputy secretary of the previous four months have been misleading me, because they told me that nowhere in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is the ban on replication, but I'll look at that Article 104 when we get the Rules of Procedure, and I guess we'll get it sometime. First, I want to say something about the reputation of the National Assembly. Mr. President, everyone here is known to have double arches. You tried to explain those arches of yours and recently on a show on B92 called "The Impression of the Week" and you were very inconclusive. It is clear that some MPs here have a more favourable status; these are MPs you do not have the courage to oppose. And there are MPs who have some respect for the president's institution and you personally and, of course, we do do things like turn off the microphones or, as was the case just five minutes ago until 1400 hours ago, to forbid me from speaking, or to set a break. As far as the case goes, you've lost your moral credibility to speak in this manner the day you refused the opposition's request to discuss your trust. So, um, what you've directly violated is Article 199. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which, from a moral and ethical point of view, is inadmissible.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16577	Mr. Markovic, I now give you a second warning about false facts at the expense of this assembly and its president. Be kind, one more warning, and there will be a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16578	So, the ruling majority refused to discuss the trust of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, although it is mandatory under article 199, and you as a moral man had to go out for this speaker and ask the ruling majority to discuss your trust, or your work. Then how do you think we're going to get over it now and not mention everything we think you're directly responsible for, and one of those things is the Labour Act, which we in the DS suspect has been forged and which is why we filed a criminal charges against you. Tell me what's not true here from what I said. I have called on MPs of the ruling coalition to come out here and say that what was related to the Labour Act was in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that the text of the Labour Act, before it was addressed to the President of the Republic, was not changed. I will remind you that I was present in your cabinet when you asked MEP Stevanovic and the SRS to paralyze the change in what was the will of the National Assembly through the vote of his amendment. Now let me finish the answer to Mr. Albianic, and then you can answer me. So, Mr Albianic, I should remind you that after the presentation of Bosko Ristic and several discussions that were followed – when a colleague Bosko Ristic asked the finance minister whether it was true that certain equipment was purchased from Erikson and he asked very logically, because he has such knowledge, and the finance minister is to deny it or simply keep quiet about it – you went out here for a pay phone and said that we were against introducing order to Serbia. I've seen this as an insult and I'm telling you again, I've listed to you all examples of riots in Serbia that need authorities one day, and when that happens, we'll see whether it's order or disorder. I repeat, "Knjiz Milos" is a mess, because the institution of the Securities Commission has been violated. What kind of order is it when a Serbian government minister calls the president of the independent commission and asks him literally – are you insane? Is it order or disorder, is it a violation of the law or isn't it? I'll remind you that your ruling majority has kept quiet about it. I asked you, Mr. Albianic, as one of the leaders of the ruling majority, is it your turn to refuse in this assembly to discuss the trust of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? (President: Time. ) Is it right to bring the Rules of Procedure that you have brought and which are (here, there are now people in the National Assembly, thanks to the fact that we are having a fight) Members of Parliament have a great right, and that is the right to do nothing. The MPs were given the right not to work without receiving a salary of 100,000 dinars. Is that the order you bring into Serbia? I asked you if it was the turn for gas at the stations in Serbia that you are introducing and I told you – we are not. (President: Time. I told you, the other day it was on RTS, military pensioners at plus 30 standing, a couple of hundred, okay for medications and asking if that's the order you're bringing in? I'm not for that order, and we from DS are not for that order. Is it your turn for newspaper articles to be full of affairs every day? They're affairs, and if they're going to have an epilogue in court, we don't know it, you don't know it, either, but they are affairs, and I can repeat a part of these affairs to you: "Knjiz Milos", as probably the biggest of these affairs, the sugar affair. Is it the order or the mess that was going on in so-called. "sugar affair", an affair related to the Anti-Corruption Council... (President: Time, Mr. Markovic, please. I'm finishing up here, and you just took me a minute ago. So, is it your turn what's going on with the Anti-Corruption Council? Mrs. Verica Barac, president of the Anti-Corruption Council, who could equally accuse anyone suspected of being corrupt, literally said that the centre of corruption in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Is that the line you're up for? It's not right for us, we're against that order, and you have to understand, you've pulled us by the tongue to talk about it now. So, is it the order of what happened to Jugormedia, is it the order of what happens to the governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia? It's not my turn, it's a complete mess, and we've been working for two months on how the governor of the National Bank bought a villa. Why don't you close it in a nice way – come the governor, tell the truth and everything's fine. That's not the way it is, I'm talking about it. Do not say that you are introducing order into Serbia. You can give a normative framework that will be some order, but the point is that normative frameworks are respected. You're the ones who don't respect the laws and the Assembly. As for the dignity of the National Assembly, Mr. President, the dignity of the National Assembly was destroyed on the day of the falsified Labour Act, which will be handed down by the competent court in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16579	So now I'm giving you a second warning. Seven minutes is, be kind, finish, you have three minutes at your disposal, be kind enough to finish so I can answer you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16580	Here I go. Mr Albianic, the difference between us and you is that no one in the DS defends Janjusevic or Kolesar. We have introduced order in our party and are ready to introduce order in Serbia as well. You put order in your party and then come talk to me, we may be able to do something, but first, in your party, introduce order and determine responsibility for what I have stated here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16581	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. One moment, Mr. Albianic, since we must respect the basic facts and this assembly. Please, Parliament Speaker Mr. Markovic, he is required to respect the Parliament's decisions. After the second warning you received you gave the correct information – the Assembly refused to put it on the agenda. The president of the assembly put the agenda on his own, and that's a request to the Assembly, not according to the coalition, a point of trust. So, he put on the agenda, and as you know, against it were the votes of your party; and of course, as the first time, when several members of your party asked, I never say what the parties were called, it is not correct, they also voted against, and the president voted for. So much for morale. The third warning you received when you had the public fooled for the third time that the Assembly had forged something or a president, because the Assembly twice voted on it and the president is obliged to respect the Parliament's decisions, and from tomorrow you will probably have opportunities, all of us together to talk about amendments and additions to that law. Please make sure you get three alerts today. Here you go, Mr. Albianić, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16582	Didn't Mr. Markovic speak according to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16583	It wasn't according to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Markovic was in the Rules of Procedure, and you have the right to reply first, but Mr. Ristic answered in the meantime. Since I have strictly taken care of the equality of all, that is why I warned, and I just gave Mr. Ristic a word before you, and I can do it again now, because there is no reason why some MPs should be privileged. I thought it was according to the Rules of Procedure, and since it's a replica, please, Mr. Ristic, we're not going to make a difference among the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16584	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure because Mr Markovic has denied the right of the MP to freely express his position, opinion and conviction for this speaker. No one has the right, according to the Rules of Procedure, to give a warning or a warning about facts. As a lawyer, there are no false facts. The fact is, there's evidence of some kind of shop, some kind of condition. Therefore, the facts are facts and there are neither accurate nor incorrect facts. There is an exact and incorrect statement, but Mr. Markovic has brought facts here and cannot give him a warning because of the facts. This compromises the position of MPs in parliament and prevents freedom of expression and expression, freedom of criticism. I would like to warn all those who decide the rights of MPs, who give and take their word, make warnings, that it is precisely the role of opposition MPs to exercise control over the government. Then it would not have happened that for the head of the parliamentary group of one party that has ministers who have been appointed here, someone who provides an alibi, so perhaps the closest name of that MP is to giving alibis to the ministers of the current government, which is why he has received so much space for this speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16585	Thank you. So, once again Article 103: ′′The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda; It was on the agenda for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which is three minutes, but the president gave seven minutes and 30 seconds to Mr Markovic. And: "No one can interrupt the speaker or warn him, except for the president of the National Assembly in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure. "Each time there were cases of violations of the Rules of Procedure, whether it was a violation of the Parliament's dignity, was the speaker of the assembly. Here you go, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16586	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's impossible to argue in this way and with a dictionary like this. What is important to say is that falseness has been expressed for the congregation speaker and the dignity of the National Assembly has been further injured. Yes, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been amended, and 112 MPs are currently registered in the O.R. to attend the session. It is true that 36 MPs from the Democratic Party of Serbia, 21 MPs G17 plus 6 MPs from the Democratic Party are present. As for non-compliance with the National Assembly and the spoken qualification that the National Assembly has changed the Rules of Procedure so as not to work, it is completely wrong; the thing is just the opposite: that our work is even more efficient and even better in favour of all citizens of Serbia. If you're receiving, as you said, 100,000 dinars pay, please, I don't take that kind of pay. You must explain why you receive such a salary and do not attend the meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not to distract us here all the time and every day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16587	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16588	Mr Albianic, as you know, MPs of the Democratic Party separate part for humanitarian purposes, as well as most MPs here, except G17 plus who, as far as I know, does not separate anything for humanitarian purposes. The other thing, the Democratic Party MPs were against the salary hike, and that's why we don't get the pay gap. So much for wages. How do I earn my salary? Well, Mr. Albianic, I make a living by making more amendments and talking more times about laws than the entire G17 plus-along MP group, and we can check that out. You have messengers who haven't come out for a paytable for a year and a half, and I don't know what they're getting paid for. They didn't submit any amendments, we didn't hear any discussion, we didn't hear a bar on the boards of discussion, but on committees, shut up. I therefore responsibly argue that most of the ruling coalition's MPs have welcomed the new rules of procedure as something that allows them to work even less, and so far they have done nothing. You mentioned that I was the one who informed on the list of "Kurir." I don't inform myself in the list "Kurir", read today's "Blic", page 8 of the insurance affair. I don't know how many millions of euros are lost, the director receives 300,000 dinars, takes a loan of 1,200,000 dinars and makes a contract, I don't know what kind. You control the insurance, you bring this bill here that we've been against, that's your G17 plus shot. So it's not "Kurir." It is about reality, and reality tells us that we are overcrowded with affairs and that these affairs relate to the government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm telling you that in one country it's not called order, it's called disorder, and that mess has to sort of be cleared up. Our proposal is to clear up by the fact that certain ministers will withdraw themselves, which will be the president of the National Assembly's own resignation, or by resigning or by calling the elections, so that this mess can be resolved. I will remind you once again that we from the Democratic Party have never defended those suspected of being participants in some affairs, we are alertly following the judiciary, which is responsible for some of these affairs being evicted. But I will remind Serbia's public that the loudest in condemning all the affairs that were happening, and there were 10 times fewer than they are now, were G17 and Mladjan Dinkic. It's a good thing you were fighting affairs back then, but you're also fighting affairs right now, ten times as many as there were then. Mr. Albianich, I don't think there's any point in us competing here in some way. I repeat, we from the Democratic Party are in line, but the problem is that you and we only agree when it comes to normative frameworks, because these are laws that are in line with European standards; here we support your steps, but we disagree essentially. What's wrong with you, which I was just talking about, is that we consider a deep mess and immorality, and that's why you can't accuse us from the pay phone that we don't advocate the introduction of order. Our order is different than that one that installs G17 plus. That's all it's about.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16589	Right on line, MP Milojub Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16590	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my moral values are indeed in one particular system, my dignity does not allow me to move on. I think we should go back to the agenda and continue the session. Everything Mr. Markovic said is false and not true. I thank you all for your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16591	In the order of the declared speakers, the People's MP, Verica Radet, has the word, and the MP Dusan Prorokovic, shall be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16592	Ladies and gentlemen, my first question is whether Mladjan Dinkic will compensate for the damage to the budget because he stole half an hour from the National Assembly today, he didn't come and we had to start the session with half an hour late, and here we listened for days while talking about the Rules of Procedure, how much every minute costs, and it's right to cost. So, the least I expected was for Mladjan Dinkic to apologize to the MPs, and even before he apologized to the citizens of Serbia who paid us to work here and some of us to travel. Mr Dinkic, as we are used to him, came here with a single package, so popularly called, and today it is eight draft laws that we need to discuss, to talk about in a single debate, so as far as anyone can say. Of course, the minister for this short time, as far as he was here today, took advantage of the opportunity to say that in Serbia everything is booming, as a result of the introduction of VAT prosperity in Serbia, reduced grey economy, increased exports, reduced imports, reduced budget deficit. So, if we weren't from Serbia, we'd really be wondering which country Mladjan Dinkic is talking about. The only truth is that by introducing VAT on everything possible and impossible Mr Dinkic managed to do what his task was, which is to fill the budget, and of course only for what he needs and for what it suits him. When it comes to the Bill on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax, I must say that Mr Dinkic here made some mistakes when he tried to replicate to Mr Alexander Vukic. Of course, everything Vucic has made quite true, and it is incorrect what Minister Dinkic said, it is incorrect that all municipal services have been reduced from 18% to 8%. It is true that the law so regulated that we have different decisions by local self-government. It is also true that funeral services charge VAT of 18% and, most importantly, it is a communal service that needs to be paid, because, you know, when you get a water bill, electricity, phone can and can not pay, you will pay after notice, etc., but when someone has to bury that service, with a 18% VAT, you have to pay. Perhaps it would be better if Mr Dinkic had come up with a way to tax these thieves who buy or try to buy MPs, and I think counterpart Mika Vlaovic could tell us how much Bogoljub Karic offers to move into his camp and form a non-existent parliamentary group. We Serbian radicals have invested a number of amendments to all these laws, and we really believe that both on committees and in the Assembly, since I don't expect this from the minister, these amendments will be accepted, because, again, I will return to the Law on Value Added Tax, all what is now incorporated into this law as positive is what (see the stenograms, look at the congregation materials) that we Serbian radicals through the amendments tried to convince the government of Serbia and the minister to accept it again. The same is true with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. The main objection to the law is that criminal policy is very badly defined, that they are completely confused with jurisdiction, that tax authorities take over the powers and the police, both the judiciary and the executive authorities. We don't think that's possible. Article 2 of this Act provides for the basis of contributions for employees and employers and premiums for voluntary supplementary pension insurance above the amount of 3,000 dinars per month. We think there should be 5,000 dinars, because these funds are returning to the economy. We have proposed to delete Article 3 of this Act because it goes exclusively in favour of the employer and absolutely does not care about the worker. Article 5 is what Minister Dinkic said today when he replicated to Mr Vukic that it was not true, and now I will read to you this article, so that you and the citizens who follow our work that Mr Vukic was right. Article 5 provides for a position to be added to Article 27 of the basic law: ′′ If, in accordance with the law governing the income tax of citizens, for a certain period, no income tax is established and does not pay citizens' income tax on agriculture and forestry on catastar income, the basis of the contribution for that period shall be the minimum monthly basis of the contribution provided for in Article 38 of this Act. ′′ So, that's exactly what Aleksandar Vukic said, and I'm still asking a question – what about households that are exclusively agricultural households, and they didn't access this government list? There's a lot more to that than these so-called. listed and those unwritten households are not treated anywhere as agricultural and have no privilege, if there is possibly some kind of perk for agricultural households. Of course, people don't want to be listed and why they should be listed and why they make some kind of reservation and I don't know what they intend to make of them. When it comes to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, it is also not good that the tax administration takes the role of both legislative and judicial authorities and police to a good extent. We have really submitted a lot of amendments here, or I think we have amendments to all the members, because we think that this law, as it is, cannot be adopted in the Assembly at all and that the tax procedure and the tax administration must be regulated in a completely different way. When it comes to customs tariff law, there is great material here and it is impossible to discuss in principle, and especially when it comes to eight points of the agenda, to comment on all of this individually, but of course, you will get, I hope, in the course of the day of the amendment of the SRS parliamentary group, because we have also submitted amendments to this law. The fact is also, at first sight, that this bill is full of illogicality when it comes to customs tariffs, when it comes to the exemption from customs duties. Here, the minister tried to convince us that these are the best solutions, as these solutions lead us to the EU, as they should be banned from importing Chinese products into Serbia, etc. The essence and what the minister should know, and what all Serbian citizens know, is that as long as Serbian citizens run into the Chinatown to buy the cheapest they can buy there, there is no luck and talk about some different and better conditions. A lot of things need to be done before so that these tax and financial laws that we're talking about these days can be applied and give some effect. The point is that Serbian citizens live extremely badly; pensioners don't get pensions, they shrink, unemployment is higher from day to day. The consequence of that... And, let's say, again, we have a bill on amendments and additions to the Republic Administrative Tax Act. Aman, people, how far? All these laws we're talking about today and these days are new hand-to-hand in the pocket of Serbian citizens. This story by the finance minister that by applying these laws, something will be cheap, some prices will fall – well, there is no speech about it, even though VAT has been reduced to some products and services. Here, live and see, nothing's gonna get cheap. We have experience introducing VAT as much as we can. You all know how much meat has accumulated, and even now that the cheap ones for this reduced VAT will be much more expensive than it was when the VAT was introduced. Administrative fees - the other day we talked about court fees and today we talked about administrative fees. I don't know if the Serbian government thinks that Serbian citizens should even address the authorities, because every address needs a big tax to be paid. All you've predicted here is either an increase in the fee or the introduction of some new taxis that are back through some other laws. All in all, the SRS parliamentary group cannot vote for these laws, because we are taking care of citizens, the people, and what the Serbian government is proposing, and what the assembly majority is likely to adopt is another seduction of hands to citizens in their pocket. We Serbian radicals will never accept that.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16593	Replica was reported by MP Mika Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16594	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the sake of informing both you and the public of Serbia, it is true what the Verse of Radeta said. The second day of Easter, on a Christian holiday, Bogoljub Karic came to me. As a Christian and a host, in those days the door is open to all, I received it. I've been thinking about why it is, I'm the Duke's host and my father's host, and then I come to the conclusion, I don't want to baptize him, if he calls himself a host, he's still... Since I'm a duchess host, I choose to be best man, I don't want to be best man to him, I think he's a new host. In one time, as the Bible said, the Lord said – it would be dark and it was dark, at that time some people in Serbia became fat and rich, thinking, when they had money, that everything in Serbia was for sale. He offered more money than my entire property was worth. Although I'm a host, old-fashioned, two married sons live with, I still can't share them, because I don't have a chance to take care of everything. My cheek is far more expensive than the dirty money Bogoljub Karic has. It is my special honor to be a member of the Serbian Parliament again, and it is an even greater honor and satisfaction to be with Dr Vojislav Kostunica, a man who has no stain in his biography and who no one can say is unfair. [[Applause]] There's something else I'd like to say about Karic. Karic thinks he can do anything. With several MPs in the circuit assembly, there are even vice presidents. I wonder who gave it to him. Canak, Tadic and Karic rule Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16595	The word has been made by MP Dusan Prorokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16596	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would firstly like to make a positive statement about the three initiatives of the Ministry of Finance which respects the one-year appeal made by the MPs, which some NGOs have. Thus, the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes finally speaks of the possibility of reducing taxis to 70% for refugees and displaced persons. I don't think this should be an intensity just when it comes to administrative fees, but also all other segments of society. We need to understand the position of people who are internally displaced from Kosovo and Metohija, but also those who were expelled from today's independent states in the early 1990s: the Republic of Croatia and BiH. The state must find funds in the budget, and the National Assembly must have the understanding to find certain ways in the laws to facilitate their position. Also, the positive intensity is the reduction of VAT by specific categories. We, mostly MPs from the opposition, but also those from the government, when it comes to value added tax, have urged to reduce the tax on housing, on agricultural products and on medicines and on certain medical means. It's done this time. Given the situation we live in and what our real estate market is, first of all, the reduction in VAT from 18% to 8% in the area of housing, will hardly have any effect in the interior. We, apart from several major cities, have not built a real estate market at all. Apartments, houses and land are sold for reasons, so I don't believe that tax cuts, except in a few big cities, I said, are more important to feel, but in these few big cities, they certainly will. Also, the third positive intensity, concerning the customs procedure, is to finally enable imports of goods to our citizens living abroad for more than two years without customs duties. Countless appeals have been sent to people from our diaspora to return to Serbia, which is for those who retired to return to Serbia after the end of the working century, which is for those who acquired capital abroad to invest in our country. But the first thing these people meet when they come to Serbia is that they have several months to wait on customs goods, especially for those of our citizens returning, say, from the United States or Canada, so they had to transport them in containers. The goods waited for months at customs, then it was customsed according to extremely subjective and problematic estimates. In this way, we allow our citizens who are on temporary work abroad to do all that other countries have done so far. As far as customs duties and customs duties are concerned, I'd have to say that the adoption of the law is one thing, and implementation of the law is another. We've increased the intelligence of customs officers in the past few years. They have the right to control the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. The legal framework for successful and effective co-operation has been made. However, if you cross the border between any neighbouring country and Serbia, you will see that the customs crossings of the Republic of Serbia are probably among the worst in Europe. If you go from Skopje to Serbia, and you cross the Presevo-Tabanovci border crossing, you can imagine that you are in Kandahar or Kurdistan, you are not at the border between the two countries that expect to become full-fledged EU members in six or seven years. Other countries of the Eastern bloc have had problems like this, and so I think that the Assembly must make an effort, not only to wait for donations to be made by the EU, which is the Stability Pact in order to reconstruct our border crossings, but to find budget funds to start solving ourselves as soon as possible, not only because of this manifestational effect, not only because one stranger first sees when entering the country is the arrangements of the border crossing, the treatment of MUP officers and customs officers towards it, but because the customs service, despite the legal frameworks given, can work on such border crossings, with desperate material and technical equipment, can do nothing. It's a safe investment coming back. If we provide material and technical means for better customs functioning, we can expect more revenue in our budget in the coming years. The Troika is a customs office and customs service within each country: one is a quality control of goods entering your country, the other is a budget filling, the third is the protection of domestic producers. I'd like to stay on this third one for an example. Serbia, as a country that has embarked on European integration, cannot operate beyond Europe with its customs tariff system. That is why it is necessary in some segments to slowly reduce customs rates and therefore it is necessary to bring our system in line with the country system in the environment. Someone before me mentioned that the EU is fighting manufacturers, especially textiles, from some countries. If we are to be part of the EU, we will have to join that fight. Entry into the EU involves certain reliefs, but also certain obligations, so that a whole series of non-EU products, primarily from the countries of Asia and South America, we will have to dramatically increase our customs rates in the coming years. What I haven't seen change in customs tariff laws is tariffs on cars. If we compare the rate of customs duty in the countries in the environment and in Serbia, then we will be able to see that the most expensive cars in Serbia are definitely sold throughout Eastern Europe. The only reason I haven't submitted the amendment is because the 2005 budget is already projected. From customs fees to imports of cars into the state budget, if I have calculated correctly, 40-50m euros flows. I think there would be great discrimination if a single amendment had been adopted, but I don't see any reason why we wouldn't have done it in 2006. Every government so far, including this one, is led by the fact that we have a domestic car manufacturer – the flag from Kragujevac and that reducing customs duties on imports of foreign car manufacturers could have a drastic impact on the flag from Kragujevac. We've been keeping these customs duties for the 15th year, and neither do we have an increase in production in the flag, nor do we have a sale of the flag vehicles on the market. The problem is different nature, the problem isn't in customs. I found two examples of countries that have their own domestic car manufacturers. One is Romania, which has Dacia in a strategic partnership with Reno. The customs rate is from one to 2.5%, according to the cubic display. The second example is the Czech Republic, which has a domestic car manufacturer Škodu, which is in strategic partnership with Folksvagen. The rate of customs duty for foreign cars is only 1%. If this is what the Czech Republic and Romania did, I think that's what Serbia should do. The solution for the flag is to search for a strategic partner, to raise products to a satisfactory level of quality, to find its place on the market, not to burden our citizens with the customs duty of 20%, as currently for cars. Also, the smaller customs duty, given that we have already reached the level of sales as in some countries in the environment, and this is about 30,000 cars a year. By reducing customs duties, the number would increase as most of these products are sold through a loan or a financial lease. The number of loans issued and contracts signed would increase, which would also affect the reduction of interest rates and could enable our citizens to do something that all countries in the environment have already made possible for their citizens, as well as the availability of vehicle prices, low interest rates loans and the increase in traffic safety rates.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16597	National MP Veroljub Arsic is not in the hall, MP Susan Grubjesic also. The People's Messenger Rajko Baralić has the word, and let the People's Messenger Miljko Četrovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16598	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just a quick word on two laws. As far as the law on extra postage stamps is concerned, I'd like to say it's necessary to be brought in. There is experience from the previous great country to finance humanitarian and other similar needs in this way, needs caused by major accidents, elemental and some other disasters, health problems of broad scale and, of course, to finance major sports organisations, such as winter Olympic games. We all remember the extra stamp as the day of the fight against tuberculosis, the day of the Red Cross and others. I remind the members of the Committee on Culture and Information that in the context of the catastrophic fire suffered by the Hilandar monastery, I suggested that the Committee session be initiated by the competent state authorities, i.e. the printing of an additional postmark for this need, but that there were no legal options. What I do not understand here is not well contained in Article 2(2) where the Government of the Republic of Serbia is empowered to determine the dynamics and frequency of printing an extra postage mark according to its own assessment. I think it needs to be solved in some other way. I trust when it comes to all the governments that are now or that will come, but it needs to be regulated in some other way, because the extra stamp is printing money. It's very important that we know. There is this restriction that it applies only to postal shipments over 20 grams and that it cannot be nominally more than 50% of this postal shipment, but nevertheless, I think that the government is getting great powers by this law and it's not good. However, I remain convinced that the government will not abuse what the law will give as a possibility. What is lacking here, and cannot be solved by this law, is an additional postal impulse. First of all, this applies to fixed and mobile telephony, to all operators, and I have no answer to whether today's great humanitarian action, such as ′′Impuls of Life", pays taxes on this impulse. If so, then it is not good, and I advocate that such humanitarian activities are released from paying value added tax, because it would leave more for those for whom this need is designed. It is very important to know that in the coming years, the number of official postal shipments in classical postal traffic will be reduced and the additional postage stamp could be lost in importance unless the mechanism was found to apply to the impulse in one or another telephone. I believe that our few can be many and that it is very important that there are legal frameworks for sick children, for sick and old people, for people who have been affected by elemental disasters, other disasters or for organising major sports and cultural events, there is the possibility that each of us (at the price of one coffee in a restaurant) will help in the course of one year this event, which is a major contribution. It doesn't cost us much, and we have significant effects. So, this law can't be solved, but I believe, today we've had some discussions on the subject with the competent ministry, that it's not impossible for that to happen in the next period. The following question applies only, since several laws are linked, to amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act. In particular, I was asked by employees and management from the company SPIK - Sloga Ivanjica, which is involved in the production of assembly houses and facilities, that their products also be released from these 10%, as they will now be for apartments of hard material. In this way they become competitive also because Ivanica is one of the municipalities in Serbia that has the most difficult situation today. SPIK Ivanjica is involved in the production of strategic splinter, has a difficult situation. The Serbian government has given some funds to consolidate SPIK. We're going to a solid settlement. We have received confidence from Mr. Finance Minister today that the Government will regulate this issue by regulation and that the installation facilities that are produced in our country will also be released for these 10%, which is a significant novelty and significant encouragement for those of the people who do this work. Since colleagues expect to say more about other laws, I thank you for being able to declare this and encourage people in Ivanjica, who have a very difficult life and have a healthy program and a very clear perspective if we help resolve this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16599	The People's Messenger Miljko Četrović has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Sava Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16600	Dear People's MPs, here's how this session with the so-called so-called session began. sets of laws to discuss them in principle in a very short time that remains available to parliamentary groups, especially the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group. This part of the law relating to taxes and tax policy, the tax procedure, the republican administrative tax is very important for the lives of Serbian citizens. As important as it is essential to do, it attracts, so it is important that the rules burdening citizens, economic operators, and the burden also determine the conditions of life and the possibility of living well or bad or living in debauchery, as one minority in Serbia lives. The minority lives because of the failure of state institutions, thanks to robbery, illegality, non-compliance with the laws in force and which are in force. Here, more than once, the effectiveness of the National Assembly and the number of laws passed in all areas has been discussed. It is said, as an example of the most successful composition of the National Assembly, that 88 laws were passed last year. What's the point of every law? The aim is to regulate one area and establish justice in relation to those treated by the law. If it comes to tax policy, there is no minister here, but I would ask him a concrete question, as he keeps saying that tax policy is almost in line with the policy as it is regulated in Europe, and this policy that has been implemented back several years is a factical policy that taxes the poorest and burden of functioning and filling the budget is on the poorest part of Serbia's citizens. It's quiet, looking at percentage and numerically, mostly in Serbia. It's based on the logic of large numbers. They're the easiest ones to charge. They do not have the opportunity to oppose the state and the tax procedure. That is why there are those who can avoid paying taxes and instead of contributing to Serbia's budget can buy the most luxurious limousines, jeeps, the most luxurious apartments, villas and live in debauchery, defiance of poor citizens, and that the state is silent and that we listen to these stories today, all the previous days and months about so-called. the affairs of who did what through corruption. For every act, if it's a violation of the law, there's a mark of that part. Those crimes are called theft, robbery, and it's known exactly how the Criminal Law regulates it. Since Minister Dinkic has an associate here, whether he and his associates are familiar with the progressive rate of taxation or as he said yesterday that each one according to his property force should be taxed or paid taxes to the state; unfortunately, there is nothing in the state of Serbia. I'd like to say something about value added tax. For months now, since this tax was introduced, humanitarian aid has been unable to enter Serbia. There is a drastic example in the King: orthopedic aids for disabled people should have been sent to disabled people in the Kingdom, but the disabled could not receive these orthopaedic aids because the tax administration cut the value added tax of 12,000 euros. Imagine the situation – people with disabilities cannot get that humanitarian aid in orthopedic aids because they have to pay the state for VAT 12,000 euros. This is the essence of the actions of Minister Dinkic and the entire system, the finance ministry and tax administrations. From Minister Dinkic to all executives at the finance ministry, especially in the tax administrations, the basic condition is that they must be members of the G17 Plus. That's the way it is and that's the name of those people. Three or four executives have been appointed or changed in the King for the last year. If someone entered the tax administration system and the entire finance ministry, but unfortunately we have no control over the tax administrations or the finance ministry, he'd have anything to find. It is also an obvious example that the Securities Commission has not submitted its work report for 2003, has not submitted a report or a work plan for 2004 or a work plan for 2005; we know that the Charter Commission has passed with what was happening to it about the "Knjiza Miloša" and the establishment of the Survey Committee, and neither has the report of the National Assembly been given to consider it. Given that we have little time, and to allow other Serbian Radical Party MPs to discuss these laws, I will conclude with this, and there will be opportunities for amendments to ask many more questions to Minister Dinkic and his co-workers from the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16601	Thank you for leaving eight minutes and other members of your parliamentary group. The Messenger of the people, Sava Urosevic, has the word, and the messenger of the people, Milomir Minić, shall be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16602	Dear President, honourable representatives of the Ministry of Finance, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a set of eight laws that govern the area of finance in the best way and take great steps to bring us to legislation in this area of the European Union. Of all the laws, I will give a special reference to the Value Added Tax Act, given the fact that two-thirds of the revenue sides in the Republic of Serbia's budget are derived from value added tax. Thanks to the fact that a good Value Added Tax Act is in force, which is well applied, we have achieved significantly higher revenue in the first five months of this year and on this basis the possibility is created to rebalance the budget in the second half of the year and to allocate these funds where they are most needed. Also, thanks to the good charge of the value added tax budget, for the first time in history we will have a surplus in the budget, because in the 2004 budget we had a 20 billion deficit, the previous year it was 40 billion, and in 2005, it was the first year in which we have a surplus. Experiences from countries in the environment show that the ideal model of value added tax was derived from several steps, mostly two or three. There's a second step ahead of us. I expect there will be another one behind this other and then we will have one almost definitive solution, which will completely and in the best way cover this area. In the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, I would particularly point out what was the essence of the law itself, the system of value added tax as a consumption tax, i.e. even better fulfilled that provision that the value added tax is a comprehensive tax. And we got an even larger number of products, i.e. the number of products that do not have in the production and transport process the same rate is reduced to a minimum. There are still a few products left, and I hope the next shift will cover it. It's especially important that taxes on livestock are taken off, on cereals. By taking tax on livestock food from 18% to 8%, conditions for cheaper tov have been created, so that our agriculture will have better conditions and cheaper products, and thus more accumulation. What is even more important for agriculture is that veterinary medicines, which are not a small item in the total agricultural and livestock production, received treatment of human medicines and burned at a lower rate. I also want to point out that there are no more two rates for human medicines on positive and negative lists, and that will be a great relief for many citizens who are forced to pay for medicines. In principle, because of the clarification, value added tax is what, if the rates are right and the rates are lower, reduces the cost of life and makes it easier for the citizens of Serbia to make it easier for the modest ones to get through the period between the two salaries. That's what I thought was significant from the VAT Act, and I would point out in just a few more sentences one provision of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. That's where I might have responded to my predecessor who was talking about individuals in Serbia buying expensive cars at the expense of not paying for contributions, schnapps. The amendments to this law make it an obligation to pay regularly every month for mandatory social security contributions, which was not the case in the previous law that we adopted in September 2004. What should be done in pairs, it is a obligation to tax on personal income or wages, which would significantly improve the situation in financing local self-government, because we know that it is one of the significant revenues of local self-government and that part of the income tax of citizens. So 40% of the income tax on citizens is returned as a transitional asset to local self-government, and now we have a situation that practically in a good number of municipalities this is not a real income, because very often only net earnings are paid in businesses, and no contributions and taxes are accounted for. We have a good set of laws ahead of us, and the G17 Group of MPs will vote for all these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16603	Thank you, Mr. Urosevic. The word has been made by MP Milomir Miniæ, not here. The People's MP Rodoljub Gačević has the word, so let the MP Milan Nikolic be prepared, and there is Mr Stanojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16604	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, due to the limited time of exposure, I will only touch a few basic questions from this area, from this set of laws. It's VAT law, supplemental to this law. When a year ago the Law on VAT was passed, the SRS parliamentary group submitted a number of amendments to correct the law, but one such law, with many shortcomings, could not easily be completed and improved, so that it was not accepted by the ruling coalition, so it remained with much uncertainty. In addition, to be regulated when written everywhere in each other, the minister will arrange the matter from the area closer. Neither was it resolved then, nor was it resolved later, and that is why we have a number of these shortcomings, especially when it comes to VAT on goods produced in Serbia exported to Montenegro and in general VAT between Serbia-Montenegro, or within the Serbia-Montenegro community. Since many issues within the Serbia-Montenegro community have not been resolved, it is no wonder this VAT issue has not been resolved either. For example, the problem of exports to Montenegro is the following: for goods produced in Serbia, when it goes to Montenegro, it is necessary to give papers, i.e. a statement that goods are produced in the community of Serbia-Montenegro, and not only goods, but also re-promatter that they are from there, and then JC documents, that means that all these papers are prepared, so that the vinegar and ultimately the manufacturer is forced, literally to say, to obtain evidence that VAT is paid on that goods in Montenegro. How am I going to make sure that, how am I supposed to find someone now, get them to deliver me these documents from the tax administration of a city in Montenegro, when simply our inspections can't solve it, or they won't solve it, or our ministries, but it's the easiest thing to do – my concern is to move on to another, let the manufacturer and its buyer handle it. It's the easiest way to solve things like that. However, we cannot solve, except in some, who knows, a very difficult case and it is very complicated, with customs being paid in Montenegro, it cannot be paid until VAT is paid. It can't be ruined, the very paper that has a seal on it that the goods are customs is quite, in my opinion, enough to be considered paid and VAT. It is not believed, but said – please prove that VAT has been paid in Montenegro and you will be released, if you cannot provide it, please, on your burden will be that VAT. So these are things that need to be resolved by the Resort Ministry as soon as possible and as soon as possible. The other problem is also the VAT on goods that go to Montenegro, but which is compensated in Montenegro. I've heard from a lot of producers, and they say that when goods go to Montenegro through compensation, although all papers go through the bank's accounts and tags. It is not worth it, the inspection comes, says – no VAT is paid, and immediate punishment and other unpleasantness, and not only unpleasantness, but it costs a lot of producers and they have to pay VAT. It is compensation, not paid for Bosnia or for any country in Europe, but paid only when it comes to Montenegro. For our end, it is extremely difficult, every 30km of some border, towards Kosovo is the border, according to Montenegro, according to Republika Srpska, and we are in a very difficult situation so that we can and do some production without talking about preventing the migration of the population in those parts. Also on the issue of customs duties – a ratified textile contract, signed with the European Community, will not produce any special results, not before our textile industry, which was very vital, and I know the area well, has struggled with disasters for many years and has achieved the greatest exports. For the past 20 years, none of the new technologies, i.e. these equipment, has been imported, used and unable to give goods to the European market in terms of quality. There will also be a number of other problems, a team before it is protected from imports of goods from China, Turkey or other countries, but prices are such, I don't even know what our citizens don't understand, or professional institutions what this is about when it comes to Chinese goods. Regardless of the fact that customs duties are officially released, imports of fibres, both natural and chemical, are not worth much to the predators and the textile industry, because they will not be able to produce textiles in order to show themselves for the European Union and to say – this is a product produced by us, meaning, and pre-emptive, etc. So it's going to be a problem that's going to cost us and how. On the other hand, I am afraid that there is no other variant – that all Chinese goods are simply repacked, they place labels on our producers and so is placed on the European market. I'm afraid it doesn't happen with textiles like sugar. That's the kind of phenomenon you've seen before. I remember well, I will not name producers who imported goods into the Yugoslav market 30 years ago into the Russian market, and the director boasted that he had the best time to make shirts in the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16605	The word has a folk MP Milan Nikolic, and then three more minutes for Mr Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16606	Dear President, the honourable representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's no law that's not being discussed here and that doesn't matter, that it doesn't matter. However, I think this package of laws defines the fate of many economic operators, as well as Serbian citizens. Of course, I have no intention, due to time, of talking about all economic laws, but I would like to mention a few things about the Value Added Tax Act. I think it's good news that finally, after the shock that we had as an economy to make a certain effort to hold this first period of value added or tax to the first return of that tax, we are now in a situation that for some of the products, very important, we are correcting VAT from 18% to 8%. But I don't think that should fit. We now have one situation where macroeconomic policy needs to react quite quickly: we have a balance sheet surplus and we have a very non-equal economy. I think that these two things are opposite to each other and that it would have to pay a lot more attention to the fact that this balance is being created more often in favour of the liquidity of the economy and I think it's a good thing that the VAT has come to life, which is the base or base of the taxpayers, which is now much wider, which is almost a grey economy, or we're going towards that goal. I think that further balancing of these relationships should continue to flow. Amendments and additions to the Customs Code solve one social problem, above all employees abroad who now get a chance to import without paying taxes and customs, and I think it will significantly contribute to the motivation of these people to at least spend those last days of their lives or pensions in their country. We need to pay particular attention to the customs tariff law. It's a good thing Serbia finally has its own tariff rule. It was a good thing it sought to correct the mistakes made in the common tariff rule with Montenegro. It's a good thing that over 170 items, ciphers and nomenclature came under impact or fall in customs rates. However, this macro-economic policy would have to take care of a few things. First, we've been like a country for many years without any investment continuity. We have a very good workforce, primarily in the area of wide-use goods production and we have outdated capacities. We need the equipment. This equipment should, if nothing else, be freed at least from these customs duties or at the lowest possible rate, so that we can continue with this investment cycle and employ people, and what we have as an advantage is professional labour, primarily in the area of textile production. Another important thing is that many of the repromation we have produced in this country is that we no longer produce. Speaking of textiles, and when it comes to textiles, the situation is that we do not produce any of that, and we have made an agreement with the European Union where we can export textile products. If the textile agreement, if the agreement on synchronisation and harmonisation with the European Union on tariff items does not allow it, the Government must find some ways to make a single range of these products free of customs duties through customs contingents for imports of repromation. We talked to the minister today as a parliamentary group on the subject, submitted certain amendments, and agreed that through the customs contingents on the import of re-romitarians, we would make it easier for manufacturers, primarily for goods of broad consumption, but also for textiles, that they could be freed from giving so that they could be competitive with Europe where we are given the opportunity to take the place of those who now export there, to take the place of the Chinese, Bulgarians, Romanians, more and more Macedonians, so that we could employ a huge capacity that currently stands in this country. Otherwise, the SPS parliamentary group will support this set of laws, with the arrangements that we have made today.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16607	Mr. Krasic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16608	I will begin by trying to draw attention to this law on amendments and additions to the Law on Value Added Tax. In general, the logic of all these laws that change is: what is in the hands of the minister is certain, and what is not absolutely under the control of the minister it is all illegal, it should be reconsidered. I will start with this Value Added Tax Act to list only those members who are changing and in numbering I will use members from the basic text of the existing law. Article 4. The last stance says -- the minister is competent to determine closer what is considered a newly built construction facility. That's what the building department doesn't know. Furthermore, Article 5th final position – the minister is closer to editing what is considered to be the use of goods that are part of the taxpayer's business assets for the founder's personal needs, etc. Article 6. The last position – the minister is closer to edits the process of replacing goods within the guaranteed deadline. Who authorized him? The exchange of goods within the guaranteed deadline belongs to the bond law. It's not part of the public tax system. Who authorized him to interfere in other people's affairs? He'd like anything to grab it. Then let's call this country a dilcanium, it's all in the hands of Mladjan Dinkic. Next article of the 21st basic text. What were we doing here begging him not to put anything to tax; he accepted pro forms because he agreed with Dracula about cereals etc. Take a closer look at the last position – the minister prescribes what is considered to be a change in the purpose of a residential facility. Who's making a change to the object's purpose? Local Government, Secretariat for Property and Legal Affairs, Urbanism, etc. Who is this minister who can prescribe especially what is what? It can prescribe if the municipality decides to re-name the facility, and he does not admit it, not accepts it, but will specifically interpret it in terms of tax regulations. Let's move on, this one for free customs stores, forget it; legalize smuggling, let's get this straight. It says – value added tax is not paid in the transport of money and capital, which states: in the case of a credit rating service, natural and legal persons. Where's the money traffic? So, to free these friends of his who give bonuses, etc. And why is that getting rid of sales taxes? That's where the money is. It's the biggest money launderer. If you release that tax on the market, then you don't have to charge this rate of 8% on milk, bread, or anything. Imagine, he'll judge what bread is and what is a baker's product. The finance minister needs to prescribe what a baker's product is. At the end of Article 25, the last position says – the minister is closer to regulating the way and the process of exercising the right to tax exemption from Article 2. Member of the 30th Last Position – the Minister is closer to regulating how to determine a proportionate tax deduction, as well as how to determine, etc. And Article 32 -- the minister closer edits what is considered equipment and facilities to perform the work within the meaning of this law. Article 36 - Minister closer edits what is considered a work of art. Dinkic determines what an art is! Please, Bartosh wouldn't allow it, even though it was a voice to know everything. He wouldn't accept that responsibility if he knew everything. We're going to do it according to the amendments, these changes are unconstitutional and in this way you're just increasing control and you're proving that once, seven or eight years ago, the regulations that were ruled by gold.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16609	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of the joint principled search, do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word? No, I don't. Thank you. Or someone else who hasn't used their rights to Article 89. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you. I am concluding a joint principled search on items 29 - 35 of the agenda. Thank you. We move to the 36th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplementarys of Transport Laws in SOCIAL COMMUNITY You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Transport and Communications Committee and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour three minutes 36 seconds, the Democratic Party - Boris Tadic - 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus – 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes 24 seconds, the Serbian Renewal Movement - New Serbia - 21 minutes 36 seconds, and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, four SPP MPs, three SDP MPs and one independent MP, per five minutes, pursuant to Article 89(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Proposer representative, Mr. Ilic, is not here right now. The committees want a word, Mr. Stamenkovic? No, I don't. Thank you. Presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, do they want a word? No, I don't. ) pursuant to Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a search for a word in writing – will now arrive, just tell me the first speaker, please, Mrs Radeta – submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. I give my word to the MP Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16610	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is one thing to say, by a technical proposal to supplement and amend the law that tries to regulate more precisely one area which has been subject to very old laws so far; over time, the change of circumstances has also led to the need for certain provisions of the existing law to be amended. Today, we have received information from the Assistant Ministers that a comprehensive law is being drafted which will regulate this area in a more complete manner and that, even more specifically, it will regulate everything that has been so far in practice under federal law and some republican laws as an obstacle to regulation of the area, to enforce regulations in this area. If we look at this law, or the proposal to supplement and amend the law, there are these things that Serbian radicals agree with, that it is necessary to regulate things more precisely. For example, in explaining the concept of a taximeter, the way it's used, and so far it's not practically applied in law. Then about marking a taxi car, what kind of inscriptions should be pointed out so that citizens do not hesitate about it and that they do not give a chance to fool someone about a registered taxi vehicle, and in fact it is any vehicle that abuses the right to drive in public traffic. It's something you needed to bring in this way. We are aware that the first meeting with a large city of traveling citizens, whether it is Nis, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Belgrade, and even in smaller places, is a meeting with taxi drivers. You know those stories that have been told for years -- don't take a cab at the train station, not at the bus station, that's what. Wildlings. These are the people who are not registered for this activity, do not pay any taxes, do not pay any obligations to the state, and most often cancel the users of their services, transporting them so that they do not include a taximeter, and then charge enormous figures or adjust a taximeter so that it shows a much higher cost of money than usual and that some decisions by the cab driver's association, with the consent of the executive bodies or the city's assembly, are allowed. Also, we're aware of the fact that there aren't enough inspectors who could control all those vehicles operating in public traffic. We are aware of the fact that a huge number of citizens who have lost their jobs in transition or received minimum wages at work, and they could not live, tried to resort, according to them, to the only possible solution, which is to take a taxi ride. They had any vehicle, sometimes 10, 15, 20 years old, and they had completed various colleges, dentistry, technical, and there were teachers, workers, merchants; people had to, unfortunately, accept that profession, because at that point they felt the easiest. A large number of taxis are in all our cities, and there are different associations. When using this taxi service you find the most different types of cars, both per manufacturer and by cubic display, according to equipment, comfort, vehicle hygiene, vehicle weariness, etc. We are aware of all the problems the Ministry has and we are aware of the problems in this area, which must be regulated as soon as possible. As I said at first, we accepted some of these members of the law, deeming them concrete and very positive. However, one member of the law has defined the SRS parliamentary group to vote against this law in the Serbian Assembly, which is a member of Article 36 of the existing law, where the positions 2 and 3 of which are added after Article 1 of the Law: "The municipality, or the city, in accordance with traffic-technical conditions, is a programme that defines the optimal organisation of a car taxi." Further: "Technological conditions of heading 1 of this article are defined in the current year, and based on the survey of the characteristics of transport requirements – driving, carried out by authorised professional organisations". This is such a broad member that it can apply to anything – that a program that defines optimal organisation, for example, can define that it must be such vehicles, that it has air conditioning, that it has to have that fenced space that separates the driver from the passengers, etc. – but in principle it always refers to the fact that local self-government will be delegated powers, this time by law, that they determine how many taxis will carry out that service activity. So municipalities and cities will be authorised to determine: this year there will be enough 550 taxis in Nis, 2,500 in Belgrade, and over that number cannot be done. Then it is necessary to wait for someone, not to give God, to die to free one place, or for someone to leave work, or for some reason to be punished and no longer be able to carry out that transport. A list of waitings is made for those who apply to be taxi carriers and then, in some department of traffic, respects the order and then, let's say, someone comes from that list and he can take a taxi ride. There's been a lot of abuse in practice. Someone was getting over the line because he's somebody's cousin, because he gave someone money or because he's a member of some political party that's running power at the moment. That power of local self-government is just too wide. When local self-government was given some rights that didn't belong to it, we also had people buried in the city center: parks, boulevards, you remember those monuments after the war, etc., instead of places that are civilized and normal for that. We believe that no one should deny anyone the right to work. Anyone can act in accordance with the law. And so far, local self-government has determined the number of taxis that can be found on the streets, but for that they did not have a foothold in the law. If we adopt it like this, then we give them the right to do so. At the meeting of the Traffic and Relationship Committee was a well-intentioned remark from our colleague who said – there are many doctors waiting for the Bureau so they can't be hired as doctors, why should we have to allow all taxi drivers such a right to work without any order? Yes, but the right to work is not the right to work only in his profession. If the doctor doesn't have a job as a doctor, he'll do something else. Besides, no one's ever been to school for a cab driver. I already said it was workers, engineers, doctors, etc. And they use their right to work, to find work where they have it. That is why we believe that this provision in the law should not exist and we ask that it be very precisely regulated, that the law should be such that it regulates the entire area. You know, when you give the municipality or the city the right to regulate, it's like when the government gives regulations, so sometimes it can apply to some, and sometimes it doesn't. We've adopted two amendments on the Transport and Communications Committee. One of these amendments is that it could regulate this area by seizing the right of municipalities and cities to determine the number of taxis that may be in public transport. We stand for competition. Soon we'll have free competition law here, a game. Let the conditions and quality of transport determine who will survive on that transport market. Imagine now, if we pass this law and limit the number of those who can handle taxis in one city, then those who already work as taxi drivers will be privileged, and others will have to wait. If this regulation is already passed, so be it, then everyone must lose their work permits, and then call a contest and have them compete evenly, according to a rule that is predetermined, under the same conditions for all. These are the reasons why we propose to the National Assembly and urge the National Assembly not to accept such a bill without the appropriate amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16611	The People's MP Vladan Vukicevic has the word, and let the MP Milos Disic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16612	Members of the Parliament, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Transport Act in road transport. Of course, I would like to say that the Ministry of Capital Investments and the competent portfolio are preparing a new road traffic law and that law will be before this Parliament very soon and we will discuss it. However, because of the problems encountered on the ground, because of the demands of a taxi driver and for better regulation of that service, we are forced to try to improve the conditions of the old law and bring taxi service and taxi transport by order of passengers. This law does not fundamentally change the existing law, but some provisions of the law improve until the moment the final version of the law is before parliament, and that will be very soon, we hope. What is the essence and what is to be achieved by amendments to existing legislation? It is closer to determining the relationship, in which someone can manage a taxi vehicle, what a taxi car should have, and overall in order to improve the terms of taxis in a way and to stop those wild cab drivers and to make those people who pay taxes have better working conditions, and thus also service users a better service. The essence of this amendment to the law is that there can be no more taxis without a taximeter, that every mile traveled must be registered, that on the sides of the vehicle taxi drivers must have their own name and last name, which will make it easier for inspection authorities to identify those wild taxi drivers, that only taxis can have on their roof a taxi marking. This will in some ways improve the conditions. We are confident that in these difficult socio-economic conditions where our citizens are many, wanting to earn something for themselves, they also resort to illegal performance, and our interest is to protect both those who are involved in legal work and those who use taxi services. It is not the same if someone is going to drive in a legal or illegal taxi, because if someone is driving in a legal taxi transport there is the name and name of the owner of a taxi, they can file a complaint with the competent ministry in the event of any problem, if they have it as a passenger. Given that our country is in transition, I would like to attach the most to this Article 5 (which may have caused the biggest controversy with the Transport and Communications Committee), which gives local self-government the opportunity to arrange an existing taxi service in its local environment. Of course, what the Committee most resented, it is in Article 5, says – the municipality, or city, in accordance with traffic-technical conditions, brings a programme that defines the optimal organisation of auto-taxes on its territory. What does that mean? This means that local self-government has the ability to say that a vehicle cannot be over 10 years old, that a taxi transport cannot be carried out in vehicles 20 and 25 years old. I'm an advocate, and that's precisely because of Kragujevac, that local self-government can determine what is the optimal number of taxis in one territory. Why? Kragujevac is a city that has 250,000 inhabitants and has over 700 taxis. Of course, in these process of restructuring companies too many people are out of work and, simply, according to existing legislation, it is enough that someone has a "B" category and can deal with this activity. This will lead Kragujevac, and I suppose the other environments, to great problems, because a large number of citizens, as the easiest occupation, will choose exactly a taxi profession, and then, due to excessive competition, they will all choke. The state and municipality will require taxi carriers to settle the obligations they have towards the city, local self-government and the state, and of course too many taxi drivers will prevent that money from earning. On the other hand, local self-government has a terrible problem in providing a taxi stop; you are obliged to define your position to all taxi drivers, but therefore you do not have parking space for citizens. We are entering a terrible circuit because we are simply not ready to say – a certain number of inhabitants need so many taxis, so determine for Kragujevac whether it is 1,000 or 700, I cannot definitely determine it from this pay phone, and of course it is the optimal number of taxis needed for one middle. This does not endanger anyone’s right to work, but in some ways one ministry is in order. The moment someone retires, when someone stops doing that work for any reason, the first person on the list will take his place. On the other hand, I think there's a lot of problems in taxi transport right now. Besides wild cab drivers, besides those people who are simply not educated for the job, besides young people who in some way express themselves by speeding, etc., besides broken cars, I think that citizens across Serbia are in some way threatened by law, which has not precisely defined how and how one activity must be done. For these reasons, this amendment to the law has in some ways made certain things a little closer to it, and the law that will be before this Parliament very quickly will define who, in which way and with which school equipment, which vehicle and what markings on the vehicle will be able to deal with taxi transport. Of course, we all know that in certain major centres, as well as smaller cities, tourists and those citizens who come into one environment first meet with taxi drivers. It is in the interest of all of us that these taxi drivers, in addition to good, quality and safe vehicles, are well educated as to the knowledge of the city, the tourist part of one environment; in some ways they are tourist guides through one environment and represent the environment in which they live. It's very important that it's all specified by the law. It will certainly be regulated by a new law. The same thing that was wanted to be arranged here, is that line traffic – to know who can deal with this line traffic, that it must be a van vehicle, a nine-seat vehicle, that it must be a marked vehicle, that it does not happen that wild cab drivers do this work, and that people who pay taxes and all obligations to the state remain deprived of their jobs. For these reasons, it has come out with this amendment to the law, and I hope that the MPs will understand that this is only an amendment to the existing law for better regulation of a service that clearly has a lot of problems, and that, of course, the law that is in the works, which will be very soon in this House, will precisely regulate the details, the provisions, the way in which someone will be able to deal with this activity. The MPs of the NS will vote for this law. I am sure that MPs from other parliamentary groups will also have the understanding that this is not about any political decision, but that it is about amending the law for the sake of improvement both for those who use taxi services and for the people involved in this activity.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16613	The People's Messenger Milos Disic has the word, and let the Messenger Lazar Cavic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16614	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a proposal for a public and road traffic law. I have nothing to say after Stamenkovic. Serbian Radical Party gentleman Dragoljub Stamenkovic said everything about this law he has. I can only add that, when the government has already given these changes and supplements to taxis, it could have done the same for bus traffic, because we know that there are also wild rides and wild lines and the greatest uncertainty that occurs in traffic is precisely in that kind of transport. Where would I put the accent? I'd like to put the accent here with the inspection services. What exactly is this about? There will still be wild transporters, no matter what they have arranged in this policy, for the reasons that these wild cab drivers and transporters are linked to the inspection services. In order to address this problem, we must first address this issue of inspection services. I'm familiar with this problem in my city, and I'm telling you that these wild transporters are connected to inspection services. First, these people would have to change, or they would have to be punished, when they get caught in that job, and they could get caught very easily, and then they would change this law and these extra laws to apply to these cab drivers. This is one technical law, which is not good, and when I say so, I bear in mind that the Transport and Relationship Committee itself did not accept it and that some additions should be made. We don't even have road safety. This is where the NS advocates getting everything in order. I can tell you it came from the Minister of Capital Investments. It is a bridge near Beška, which is still insecure today, which is very important for traffic safety, both for taxi drivers and for all traffic participants. We have a damaged bridge, which the Minister of Capital Investment says is completely safe, and I say it's not, because I'm from that area and I know how much damage it is. It's about the variant of the lower bridge, and we know there's another bridge that needs to be done and it's going on a larger bridge. I am convinced that the minister has already earned some money on the subject, better said commission for his personal pocket, so there is no security there and there should be a question – why? The appeal from the field is to accept the lower version of the bridge. Once I have taken the word, I want to add the following – we need to fix the law, but to make it all equally important and there is no failure. I'll point out once again, inspection services have to do their part of the job and that's the biggest problem. We don't just have to go on a variant to punish people, but to help them and create conditions that people can work safely and that they can make money. The state will certainly benefit from that, and you will agree. What's wrong and why don't we accept this law? That's a suggestion to limit the number. This law does not want us to have sound competition, which is not good, and we are fighting precisely to have sound competition, because it can benefit citizens of this country. Besides Mr. Stamenkovic, who said everything, I wouldn't have anything to add, except that this law includes bus traffic, because there may be a bigger problem than a taxi driver, and that the safety of the taxi drivers themselves is covered, because we have witnessed that in recent years the killings of taxi drivers have taken place. We only know about them when taxi drivers block the streets in cities, and that problem is neither covered nor solved. So this is just one technical proposal for a law on amendments and additions to this law, which is not good. As far as these laws are concerned, they must be more extensive and comprehensive and solve the whole problem in this area.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16615	Thank you, Mr. Breather, for the construction. The People's Messenger Lazar Cavic has the word, and let the MP Branislav Stevanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16616	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill on amendments and additions to the Transport Act in road transport is slightly ridiculous, because there are much more important things to be amended than these few that are purely technical. The Serbian Radical Party's position is not to limit the number of taxi drivers, because the greater competition it will be better for citizens; especially as possible for local self-government to share taxi licenses selectively, which would be an additional problem. This law does not solve road traffic problems in a proposed way. The taxi driver's law cannot be introduced into legal frameworks regarding taximeters and other technical solutions. This law can't handle it. Technical examinations are carried out for six months. This time period can be interpreted as a good solution, but also as a bad solution. Who today has the opportunity to follow the world's trend, especially our taxi drivers, who are barely making ends meet? Today, they are unable to buy new cars in such an economic environment. And you know what interest is when you take new cars, which are technically the most correct. We usually drive vehicles that are technically broken, people know that, and cab drivers know that. The instrument called a taximeter must be located in such a place in a car that will be visible. The state of this extra-line taxi tours should be resolved on economic grounds, and this should bring faster and safer transport that will bring profits to taxi drivers. The issue of the state must be resolved in such a way as not to serve only the penalties, because punishments in our people are not always welcome, and we all know that. Also, Article 3 of the proposed law on the use of roof markings, the inscriptions of the firm on the sides – means that the questions from the domains of this marking should be in line with European standards and ideas, that you are approaching these ideas, and you hear that Europe no longer wants anyone, and neither do we. You hear that Europe is already saturated, so how do you comply with this law when it does not want it?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16617	Thank you, Mr. Cavic. The People's Messenger Branislav Stevanović has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Verica Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16618	Ladies and gentlemen, the government of the Republic of Serbia knows by which way it shows its insecureness. Despite the changes in the Rules of Procedure, which we have spoken of many times, you can see that we have such minister's behaviour that they simply don't have time for at least a moment to come, to stop by this high house and respect our MPs. The bill did not go through on the Transport and Communications Committee. There's certainly plenty of room for the criticism of this law. The situation in our country, especially in traffic, is very bad. We know ourselves what kind of buses we ride, what kind of cars our citizens own. Simply, the police themselves are in a very difficult situation to punish our citizens if they have nothing to pay for punishment from, and we know that punishments are also very drastic. In this bill, which speaks of changing several members, many things are unsaid. Of course, the big extra torturer will suffer cabbies, who continue to drag their hand deeper and deeper into their pockets and are increasingly asked to do so. And we've all been driving in a cab and we've heard what taxi drivers say, how hard they make bread, and we know what they're in, we've read more than once in the press how many deaths, injuries, etc. I think we should sort this out, knowing that they're in a very difficult situation. Therefore, the area should be arranged in such a way that it should be known exactly how many taxi drivers should be in one city. By the way, there should be some procedure, a little more serious. The taxi drivers, for example, have an obligation under this bill, as you have stated, twice a year to conduct a technical examination and it is necessary to arrange it. Also, if it is not arranged for buses, it is necessary to arrange it; there is a great responsibility, because there are a large number of our fellow citizens on a daily basis, and we are aware of the situation we are in and there are more and more of those driving in very bad buses, as we use in our society. The proposed amendments and additions to this law indicate that traffic penalties are very high. The police themselves are placed in an unenviable position, how drastically to punish a fine of 15,000 to 60,000 dinars if the driver does not have a properly written name and last name and company, when using the bus stop, etc. I don't think that in the situation we're in, we can solve it that way with such drastic punishments, no matter what we want to impose order. I think it's too high for our citizens and, of course, for the taxi drivers themselves who have a hard time getting along in their jobs. The transport of passengers, as I said, takes place in really bad and old buses. Private carriers imported from abroad vehicles that are no longer for use due to exhaust gas (under this new law, European) and now use such bad buses and, of course, make competition for carriers such as ′′Lasta′′. Of course we'd have to arrange that area, because I'm saying the comfort of those buses isn't adequate. It would be necessary if they had air conditioning. Imagine now, on these heats, what it's like for our fellow citizens who are being transported on those buses, where even more passengers are being admitted than is the capacity of a bus. We know that tenders that are being debated in local self-government are most often staged. Of course, there, besides the one who gives more, needs to take care of those carriers that compete on these tenders to have adequate vehicles, preferably air conditioning, when it comes to the transport of passengers, and that they are of course more recent productions. I also want to say here this: I think it should be possible to import cars up to six years old, because in addition to this situation where we are, we should be aware that vehicles are still up to six years old in good condition and correct. All countries in the environment have made it possible for their citizens, not to mention individually, practically all countries allow their citizens to import cars up to six years old, and we are not the only ones to do so. Why? Probably because these auto-houses, if I didn't call them after this payphone, probably the ministry gentlemen pay well too, so they could simply sell their cars, so that they might otherwise have a bigger sales effect. Mr. Velimir Ilic is not present today in this high house, and last time we had concessions, I presented several criticisms, but his true ones, which he spoke in his election campaign. He continued to behave in his own style, so to take advantage of the opportunity to inform you, since you probably don't know, fellow MPs – he was, in fact, one of the many frauds he performed the other day in Valjevo, in that he came, as the president of the municipality from his party, went to the president's call, there was also a respected colonel, of course, invited to this ceremony, so it was a celebration of the city. He brought the cameras in, and he took two keys and invited the colonel nicely, and the man had nothing to do with what it was and said – sir, you will receive the keys, let me assign you 23 keys to the army, and a number of apartments he assigned to the president of the municipality, allegedly for some endangered people, etc. Then there was a great rebellion in Valyev. People thought it was a true event. But soon it turned out that it wasn't true, that it was another one of Velya's insinuations. Of course, after the cameras were turned off, he told the gentleman – return the keys and we'll see what happens for the apartments. It's the truth that can be checked. Of course, last time there were objections to my criticism, but, gentlemen, your minister is still acting in his own style. Also, I say, there are too many penalties that you have imposed on our fellow citizens. When it comes to vehicles of our domestic production, and we protect the flag, because it is necessary to protect our flag, you, gentlemen, have not yet taken one step in that direction to improve, encourage production or any car house from abroad to bring in to start production, which means absolutely what I said about importing the car itself for up to six years, it comes down to that same story. Of course there would still be room for criticism here, but since you've certainly decided to do this quickly, both a large number of laws and this, of course, you'll do it and you've done it. Of course, you don't have any particular criticism, because you're not interested in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16619	The People's Messenger Sreto Perić has the word, and then the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16620	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a draft bill on amendments to the Law on Transport in Road Transport on the agenda. When this topic on the agenda is no more logical than that of Mr Velimir Ilic, the Minister of Capital Investment, to be present here, and we from the SRS, we expected, when it comes to this bill, that there are other things. However, we unofficially learned during this session that Mr Velimir Ilic had gone to Loznica for the opening sometime. Since I come from these parts, I'm not familiar with any road today, and recently it will be open in that area, I'd say he went to close some time. Because I know there's a Loznica-Shabac road and there's a contractor involved; we from the SRS have nothing against it, we have no knowledge of it, but we have opinions, given that every day I go that way, that the contractor who's chosen and who's entrusted with the works on that road is not adequately equipped with the equipment, nor with other means, so that he can complete the journey in a relatively short time. Since this is a very frequent road, connecting Republika Srpska with Serbia, or Belgrade's capital, it is impossible to hire a contractor who has only one smaller number of vehicles in his machinery park. We expect and it would be perfectly normal to work on that trip in three shifts, 24 hours and work on weekends. If not, they announce strikes from the area, as they are now on local roads; these roads that are now used for public transport are local roads, untegorized roads, and that's where heavy cargo trucks, buses go. These roads were built out of contributions or voluntary contributions, and these were collected by the villagers and threatened by the blockade for reasons that if these roads were destroyed and they wanted to be safe, because they were not intended for such a traffic frequency, no one would later help to correct and bring the purpose. So the minister would have to deal with it that way. If it is necessary for this road to be closed for a certain time, then the alternative direction of the Shabac-Cer-Tekeris-Szeva-Loznica should be fixed and brought into a more decent state so that it can be used as a necessary and temporary solution. When it comes to changes and additions to the Law on Transport in Road Traffic, we expected not only to solve the problem of taxi transport and taxi services, but to look at the state of roads and road networks and transport, i.e. providing services to Serbian citizens. I can talk about four mountain-mounts, such as Loznica, Mali Zvornik, Krupanj and Ljubovija. I suppose the city traffic is relatively well solved, but the distance between these places and remote villages is 40 or 50 kilometers away, and they are located in mountain areas. There is no solution to the transport of these passengers, and I think that the Ministry of Capital Investment should spend some time and record the situation in Serbia, or the state of public transport, in road traffic and then that some solutions that we should accept and adopt here. I think we should introduce a certain number of extra-line traffic, that we should deny so-called. speculative lines. I assume the gentleman's specialty at the Ministry of Capital Investments is road traffic. Although you may feel that there may be no speculative lines, there are certainly all over Serbia, and you know how they are coming to them and I think someone richly rewards for approving such lines. I think it should be prevented for all carriers to be on the same terms. This Article 5, for which Mr Dragoljub Stamenkovic made certain remarks, stands entirely and is in place. It is not possible to limit competition in the exercise of certain activities by law. It would seem the same if local self-government were given the authority to prescribe in its places the number of independent trades, the number of offices of private practice, whether dental or other, number of catering facilities. We believe that this should not be legal regulation and that so much of the right should not have local self-government, because surely if that happens, I do not say everything, but a certain number of local self-government will certainly abuse that part, and in this way indeed, as Mr Stamenkovic said, it prevents the basic right of the citizens of Serbia, which is the right to work. We are about the law to prescribe certain conditions for performing a certain function, but also the number of performers practically means creating a systematization for the number of taxi drivers, for example in Mali Zvornik. I don't think it's necessary and that we shouldn't resort to it, that this problem and this matter should be regulated. I think there are high sentences for overstepping some of these powers. We are for certain things to be written in all spheres of life, even in traffic, and respected. But it should be kept in mind that many, especially taxi drivers, are directed to do this emergency business. Someone said there are people in Belgrade who are doctors, and they're taking taxis because they can't get a job in their profession, so people are forced to do that job. Perhaps there should be more talk here about those unfavorable events that particularly taxi drivers in Belgrade are exposed to. I think that, above all, the Ministry of the Interior and, of course, the Government in general, should argue more that such things are not happening, that they are more effective in fighting those people who have nothing sacred or human life. Every day in our places and in our practice it happens to us. I can also say, if it is true that the law that will regulate this area as a whole is being prepared, then it should not have taken for a short time – and I understand from my colleague Vukevic that this traffic law will come on the agenda very quickly – nor will it approach these changes. And if I understand this bill correctly, he misrepresented one of these members, which is Article 5, where it is said that it is mandatory for taxi vehicles to have the name and name of the owner of the taxi and its name, if any, and that the vehicles used for the personal transport of citizens and taxi vehicles are excluded from that obligation, and all other vehicles intended for the public transport of passengers are subject to such emphasis, i.e. on companies.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16621	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16622	Ladies and gentlemen, the bad practice of the Government of the Republic of Serbia continues by the government ministers ignoring the National Assembly and indeed, for us from the Serbian Radical Party, it is unacceptable to discuss any government proposal without having a representative of the government here as the legislator of this law. Like my colleague, Peric, I have heard that Minister Ilic is in Loznica, that he opens up there some time, and I asked Spahu – what, Spaho, opens up in Loznica, and he says – no matter what roads, since DOS came to power in Loznica, only the foreigners go. It would have been better if Minister Ilic had gone to Grocka to see how the streets were working there, to see how the recent president of the municipality -- the day before the meeting of the Assembly of the Municipality when the president of the municipality became Mr Simonovic, a Serbian radical, was this Tuesday -- from the city of Belgrade he received a large amount of money to close contracts in return, without a tender, not known to anyone, nor to whom he gave the money. He did it because the radical president would have to suspend these works temporarily to determine how much money was given, to whom it was given, that the job was started and won without a tender and that the citizens of Grocka would think that, behold, the new radical president would not build in Greece. He will soon see that he wants to build and that, of course, against the one who treated the municipal and city funds in this way will be conducted and the proper procedure. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Transport in Road Traffic, our position is not only when it comes to this law, but in general when amending and supplementing the law, that this is an unserious approach to solving certain problems in a particular matter, and certainly this should have been regulated by a single law. We know that the law is living matter, that it can be changed, that it can be complemented, but it's not good that every time there's a narrow interest the law is changed, that it's something to do, that someone calms down for some reason, then the Assembly is involved in making changes and supplementing laws that essentially don't mean anything or represent nothing. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Transport in Road Transport came on the agenda and because Belgrade taxi drivers announced a major strike, because they talked to representatives of the government, because government representatives made a series of false promises to Belgrade taxi drivers and certainly it was time and it was necessary to discuss this group of people, not only in Belgrade, but in Serbia, because problems in the area are present. Minister Ilic offered us, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this law to say in some way to dissatisfied taxi drivers and those who have not yet met all the conditions – here we are, we have given the Assembly a bill, the Assembly adopts, calm down, it will be all right and it will get better. Of course, nothing will be okay and nothing will be better as the law like this suggests, together with the Ministry of Certain Mr. Armush, who cheers and dresses taxi associations in Belgrade, of course taking care of himself and of a narrow group of people who are called taxis, because they are essentially not engaged, they are engaged in some third jobs, and taxis, or taxi licenses, serve them as only camouflage and as an opportunity to launder money. The problem, particularly in Belgrade, has been present for years, not to say for decades, and has never been seriously addressed by anyone. We in the Serbian Radical Party are absolutely opposed to what is happening now when taxi carriers are in Belgrade, which is that city authorities are trying to prevent some people from taking taxis. Why? First of all, in such an unconstitutional decision, people are being brought into an unequal position, basic human rights are being destroyed, because one of the basic human rights is the right to work and no one has the right to tell anyone – you can be a taxi driver, and you can't be, provided that both of them meet the conditions necessary for someone to take a taxi ride. As a user of taxi services in Belgrade, I look at the layman, but I say, as a user, I don't share the opinion that there are too many taxi drivers in Belgrade, because if I have to turn five taxi companies in the morning to find a vehicle to come to work or if I leave here, I have to wait outside the Assembly for 10 minutes in downtown Belgrade, I'm sorry, it's not enough, it's an orderly and regular taxi ride. However, and let's say that this is my subjective position, it is impossible and there are no parameters that anyone can say – there are so many taxi drivers in Belgrade. Which is to prevent one loyal competition, as no one has ever forbidden anyone to open a store, although in one street you have, say, five houses, one by the other, and each one has a store. Of course, everyone also has their customers, each with their own customer attitude deserves more or less. The same is true of people who want to deal with taxis. What is current in the city of Belgrade? In the Belgrade City Assembly, there are several hundred requests from mostly younger people in Belgrade who have been allowed to pass the city's knowledge exam, which they have provided certain money, which they have acquired taxis and for this they have provided money, which they have bartered taxis and paid for, and they have had a number of other costs. All the documentation required of them was submitted to the City Department for Traffic and then someone smart said, yes, you meet the conditions, but we estimated that the taxi driver in Belgrade is a lot. No one has the right to make it impossible for someone to work. If city services ever assess, behold, they have proved on a scientific basis how many taxi drivers in Belgrade need, then something that is completely logical has to be done, so to say – from this point on, no one has a taxi license in Belgrade; in Belgrade it takes 7,000 taxi drivers to work, the competition opens, and 7,000 people who meet the conditions will be in Belgrade taxi drivers. That might be some kind of solution, not the one that's present right now. We all know how much trouble there is in taxi traffic, what kind of traffic they are. We have a lot of those who have a taxi board, who aren't actually taxi drivers, they don't pay taxes, they didn't pay anything that precedes a taxi license. There's a lot of people who have regular paperwork, work permits, and they're doing some ten jobs and literally renting out their own taxi tables, and some third people deal with that kind of transportation. All of these are absolutely familiar problems in Belgrade, and I believe they are in other parts of Serbia. A large number of taxi drivers are retired, retired, and, imagine, they don't work on black. They are receiving a pension, and someone in the city services of Belgrade, in the services of Nenad Bogdanovic, has given them permission to be taxi drivers as pensioners. So, the only thing that makes it impossible is for a team to say to younger people who want to feed their families, who want to work fairly. Do you know what they're doing? The cab drivers come in, say, very often I ride with people who didn't get that license and I say it out loud. Since they know I don't mind, they take off a nice board so the inspection doesn't notice them along the way, and then they drive me as friends, and they actually drive me like taxi drivers, along the way, along the way. I understand that. People have to get by. That's why we should... Yes, it's very funny, my dear colleagues, it's very funny, ask the people who gave or borrowed the last dinar to buy these vehicles, to equip them the way it takes for a taxi ride, to pay all these costs, and to keep some seven months in their drawers because they estimated that Belgrade needed it, I think, 7501 taxi drivers. Imagine your mind's head circled into one piece at the end! That's what citizens are suffering, it's all Belgrade's suffering, and it's all the citizens of all Serbia. That's why we think that this is a partial solution to these problems, in the way that we're being offered here, just blurring our eyes, and that's not the essential solution to the problem. The Serbian government should propose solutions to us, and to do so here, how to enable people who deal with taxi transport to have more favourable conditions of import, so that guarantee funds of municipalities and cities guarantee these people for more favourable loans, because their vehicle is a basic means of working. Of course, no one cares about that. It is important that you today or tomorrow, when you speak, and put this as another law that the Assembly passed, as if I did not know what epochally was achieved because several more members through these amendments and additions of the law would be passed. My colleagues said this was a technical law. I would say that, of course, and criminal law, because more than half of the members of these amendments and the addition of the law (in total there are 11 members) refers to how someone is going to be punished; and these are completely insane and pointless provisions, not someone who, I don't know, has no taximeter, but is said to be punished by someone who isn't a taxi driver and has a taximeter. Really to cross a man to this form of law. Article 1 of this law describes what a taximeter is. These are changes and additions to the law, so you say what a meter is – a measuring instrument, etc. It just doesn't say anything, sir from the ministry, when you're going to hire the proper services, the competent services to control those taxis and those buttons next to the taxi drivers, so when you ride with them on the same ride, you pay twice as much transportation as you pay for those honest ones who turn on the taxi meter and drive you on a cab. I say, those honest and honorable ones who want to work honorably are much more, but it is unacceptable that in this area, unfortunately, as well as in many areas, the minority who is dishonest and who abuses the work which is done by the main word, and in agreement with them, laws are proposed which, as I have said many times, mean nothing. Article 2 provides that taxi drivers must have a travel order for each taxi and a travel order is signed by an authorised person. Believe me, this is something that, according to us from the SRS, is unacceptable, and it's simply not good to pass laws that are inadmissible. Who's gonna sign that travel order every time? Am I, as a taxi user, an authorized person who will sign a cab driver to drive me from Zemun to the National Assembly? It's just amazing. Therefore, it is not a good solution, as is the senseless solution in Article 3, where the last position says: "In a vehicle carrying passengers, i.e. persons, other than a passenger car carrying a taxi, there cannot be a taximeter". This is an amazing legal provision. The law needs to say what it can, not what it can't. The law says there can't be a meter. He has to say he has to have a meter if he's in cabs. What kind of fool buys a meter, pays a few hundred euros, doesn't deal with a cab ride? Don't do things like this and we're wasting our time on these. I really have to say, nonsense. Nor is this Article 5 a good solution: "The municipality, or city, in accordance with traffic-technical conditions, brings a programme that defines the optimal organisation of the car-tax transport". They have received all the parliamentary groups from the cabbies' association that have not yet received the approval to work on the amendment so that it should be regulated. We from the Serbian Radical Party will support the amendment on the committee responsible, because we really think it should be done and that these people should be helped in this way. In criminal provisions again, what is characteristic of this government – drastic differences, the range of penalties between 15,000 and 60,000, from 20,000 to 80,000. Every time such punishments are at stake, you open up the possibility of abuse. For the same offense, someone will be punished by 15,000, someone with 60,000, depending on what kind of relationship they'll have, not to say how much money they'll give to whoever controls it. We're talking about fighting corruption, we're talking about a legally regulated state, so it's essential that we work and pass laws that have decident, clear provisions, with as little opportunity to abuse laws as possible. When we regulate certain matter by such laws, we can be sure that it will be arranged in the right way. Imagine you, colleagues, please, this provision of Article 7(1) – a fine of 15,000 to 60,000 dinars will be fined if the vehicle carrying out the transport is not on the side of the printed company. I agree that he has a listed firm, but if he has a taxi board, if he meets all the other conditions, it's okay to be punished if he doesn't have a firm, but he'll be fined from 15,000 to 60,000 dinars! Imagine how much that poor cab driver has to work to make 60,000 dinars. Does anyone here take care of the citizens, the people, those to whom this law applies? So, the position of the SRS parliamentary group is that this law should not be adopted. If the minister were here, I would ask him, here, to suggest that this law be withdrawn, to settle down a little bit, to arrange for the services to make a good bill that will include this matter in one comprehensive way and that we discuss it and, if it is good, to adopt it, why not.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-29-0.u16623	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. I ask the MPs not to go red, not to cross where there are no zebras and not to drive vehicles that have no conditions for it, it will not come out well, because someone might think that MPs are accepting a violation of the law. People's MPs never do that, except sometimes out of solidarity. I totally understand that. For solidarity I warn, please, it's important, tomorrow morning at 10.00 we should continue our review of the proposal for a competition law. In case the draft law on the protection of competition and the draft advertising law are withdrawn from the procedure, you should know that there will be pauses for MPs to prepare before moving to the draft law on amendments and additions to the Labour Act. This is what I'm saying to be prepared for the way we work within the parliamentary groups. Continuing tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we continue the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. Please determine the number of present in the hall, please the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic system, there are 90 MPs present in the hall. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Goran Svilanovic, Milovan Markovic, Vladan Vukicevic and Zarko Obradovic (before noon). We're continuing our work on the agenda. Before that, the notice, paragraphs 37 and 38. The government of the Republic of Serbia has withdrawn from the procedure. Isn't that right, Minister Lalovich? Thank you, Mr. Lalovich. This means that today we will continue to consider the proposal in principle of the 39th point, the draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act, which means, as we said last night, that we will have one break before that to prepare MPs. Before I take a break, MP Milos Aligrudic reported to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Aligrudic.
