ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19602	Dear People's MPs, good afternoon. We continue the session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 96 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 90 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than 1/3 of MPs are present and that there are conditions to start the working day of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Goran Knezevic, Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, Zoran Alimpic, Anita Beretic, Dobrica Jankovic and Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. We move to a joint principled search of the 1-5th agenda: – PROPOSES ON THE AMENDMENTS OF THE PIO LAW, VOLVAL PENSION FUNDS, PURPOSE OF APPROACHES AND PRESIDENTS IN THE PUBLIC DULATION Allow me to read to you what we didn't do yesterday, and these are the names of the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups of Serbian Radical Party MP Zoran Krasic; for the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia National MP Slobodan Adžic; for the Socialist Party Group of Serbia National MP Toma Busetic; for the MP group of New Serbia and the independent MPs 9 + 9 National MP Dusan Mrvos. Did anyone else report an authorized promoter without a memo? No, I don't. ) I ask if the representatives of Proposer Slobodan Lalovic, Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, and Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance, want a word? The word has Minister Lalovic. I ask the vice presidents Milan Markovic, Zoran Angelkovic and Stefan Zankov to come down in the next half hour to discuss how to conduct the session. Mr. Lalovich, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19603	I thank you, Your Honor, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, I have the pleasure today to meet the people's MPs and the public of Serbia with a set of laws that need to reform the continent of the pension system in Serbia Before that, I would like to mention one thing that I think is very important, which is that the state of Serbia, or Serbia-Montenegro, has received an assessment from the world community that Serbia-Montenegro is a global leader in reforms. It says the current Serbian government, the government of Vojislav Kostunica, has done a huge job in these years and several days, that it has taken serious reform steps, and today's debate should also be seen as a continuation of the reform path of the government. The government intends to fully reform Serbian society in the coming period, prepare it for European integration and to make Serbia a normal, respected country again after so many years of wandering and its citizens to be re-respected citizens in Europe. That is the goal of the government of Vojislav Kostunica. There's another goal, which is to introduce new standards. In fact, the key thing we're working on is the introduction of new political standards or new standards into politics. I think it may be the most significant thing we'll do, because after us, no other government will dare come down below those standards. What do these standards, first of all, consist of? In the first place, this government is not looking at things and its work compared to some of the next elections that will come. Moreover, the government does not observe, even worse, as it is often seen in Serbia, compared to the next public opinion survey that will say something. This government is looking at things more seriously, more responsible and long-term. The fact is that we are entering a pension system reform that will last for years; only this procedure that we are talking about will last for the next ten years until the whole system is set up. I would take advantage of the opportunity to mention that there is a reform of the pension system in a very serious country at the same time, for example. In the United States. According to their plan, the reform should last until 2035. These are the measures when we talk about these key social issues. So, reforming the pension system is not a matter of one party, one government, it's a matter of one society. In this regard, we expect that, regardless of the various contradictory statements and attitudes, most Serbian society actually supports reform of the pension system as part of the overall reforms that will finally lead us to the right path. So this isn't a good way or a bad way, it's the right way, which I'm convinced of. When we talk about reforming the pension system itself, I want to start by saying two things, so it's clear what we're talking about here. When this pension system was set up as it was in time, the relationship between those who paid contributions and those who used pensions, at the beginning of the whole story, it was such that more than five people worked to get a pension. That was the fifties of the last century. Today we're all facing the problem together that we basically have one who works and one who receives a pension. There is no math, there is no logic that can prove that such a system can function. Of course, if there's anyone in this room who can prove it, it's certain you'd deserve a Nobel Prize. But it's very hard to prove it. That is why I expect the representatives of opposition parties, along with all the objections they have on individual members of the law, to essentially support, and if possible, decent and without adjudication, reform of the pension system and thus show responsibility for the future of Serbian society. The next thing I want to say, and I think it's very important, it's that in public often, especially lately, the question of why the contributions don't increase, because, here's the solution, so instead of being 22%, it's 32%, 52%, etc. There's a little, tiny problem about those suggestions. The whole idea of this country's future is to reduce the burden of economy. If we don't reduce the burden on the economy, there's no economic development. If there is no development in the economy there are no new jobs, if there are no new jobs, there is no pension system, but there is no broader job, there is no Serbia. Therefore, it is clear that, in this direction, the arbitrarily increasing contribution is no solution. In addition, in their time, in the 1970s, when countries fell into this problem, this pension crisis, the serious and responsible countries then faced this dilemma of whether to increase their contributions so that they could pay out of the current inflow or to reform. Then these serious politicians and those serious countries, which are therefore rich because they had such power, responded in the right way at the right time. They said they wouldn't increase their contributions, because the competitiveness of the economy would decline, and then the economy would go down, so the country would go down in the long run, both in the end and the people. Unfortunately, we didn't have such politicians and such power when we needed to. At 30 and over years of delay, we're doing it now. But it's better now than to keep going and let things go to waste. The bottom line is we're looking and we're finding the right answer to a real problem. So if we have such a situation that one works and one uses a pension, if we have a situation that we can't increase contributions, if we don't want to bury the Serbian economy, if that is already the situation, it's clear that we have to look in the other direction and in another way. In fact, all we're doing right now is in that function. What are the two main objectives of the overall reform of the pension system, but I would say wider, the overall reform procedures that this government is doing? The first and main objective, when it comes to reforming the pension system, is to redistribute the social product in favour of investment, in favour of the country's future. That's what's been going on here for years, decades, and nobody's ever had the guts to do it. This government has that courage and she's going to do it. Only if we send out clear messages that Serbia is ready to redistribute, turn towards investment, will others, who want to invest, who intend to invest, say it is okay, that it is a serious country and that they will invest there. The issue of investing in the Serbian economy is the issue of job creation. The creation of new jobs in Serbia means increasing the total contributions that are being collected. So there's one positive spiral and we're doing it now. The first objective is to redistribute the social product in favour of the future, in favour of investment. The second, narrow goal, if I may say so, is for the pension fund to become sustainable, to be placed on healthy feet and to be a sustainable fund in perspective. Together, we remember that in the mid-80s last century, an open and clear crisis of the pension fund began, so at that time. From then on, it's 20 years old, the pension fund is in crisis. That's why we have big debts, small debts, medium debts, these debts and those kind of debts, because it's always been patched up, because the fund can't function in that way and in those circumstances. So we have two decades of evidence that this fund can't work. That is why the second objective is to create a situation where this fund will be sustainable. When I talk about the redistribution of the social product... And, of course, a sustainable fund means another important thing, which I want to say here today: in the context and after this reform, as the first effects, it will be that pensioners in Serbia will start getting regular pensions, simply, in the current month for the previous month. We've always had a problem with what's going to happen and what's going to happen. I think it is very important that pensioners in Serbia know that these reforms mean they will receive regular pensions, without a sign of whether they will be, what will be and when they will be. It's another important thing when we talk about this reform. Of course, in a broader context, expressing the government's position to want to redistribute in favour of investment means that foreign investors, those interested in this country, will tell themselves that there is finally some serious power there, makes sense to invest. I think it's a very important message. Without the serious growth of direct investment in the Serbian economy, we can talk as much as we want, but there's nothing we can do. So, the whole idea of this government, and it's contained in this assessment, thank God, the world community that we're a leader in reform, is that as a reform leader, we create the best possible conditions to invest here, because it's such a time for some investor who wants to invest, ask around, to choose whether to invest in this, that or in a fifth country. There is a kind of match among countries in terms of creating conditions for attracting direct investment. It's a key thing. The biggest problem of Serbian society is unemployment. I think you can agree with me on that. We don't have an answer to that question unless we do what we're doing right now. Two things are important here, with which we need to be completely clear and clear. Just because the fund has not been sustainable for so long, as it is, that pensions are being financed from the current inflow, there have been more and more acquisitions and dopings of the fund. It's just there's no income, so let me add that somewhere else. What is the final result of this whole game? The final result of the whole game is that in Serbia, pensions in the gross social product are the largest of all OECD countries. That's one extremely bad message to anyone. Another important thing, I'm saying this for the citizens of Serbia, whether it's popular or not, but they need to know the truth, it's that the ratio of the average pension and the average salary, the one that we have, is nowhere else. What's that message to anyone? These people over there, in that country, are insecure people. So it's a very important message. The ratio of the average pension and the average salary is closest to us practically, I'm talking about an environment, in Croatia and Slovenia, which is about 55%, the average pension - the average salary. Ours will be around 65% this year. So, as you can see from this, the whole idea in all of this is that, through the appropriate effects of reform, we encourage economic development, because it's a question of all issues. As for the very bill of law that lies before you, starting from these objectives, I am talking about the law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance, so, starting from these strategic objectives that I mentioned, several important interventions have been carried out in the Law. First of all, it's a change in the way pensions line up, as the most present question. According to the draft law, the formula on the basis of which the harmonisation of pensions is calculated is so called. The Swiss formula, where half-earning is taken, half-costs, for the next four years; according to this proposal, should be proportionally reduced in profit participation. In the end, after that four-year period, the way pensions are brought into line with the cost of living. It's one of the biggest changes. (Momir Markovic, from the place: Who survives. We'll go back to it - whoever lives. The second major change is the shift in age – two years for women and men, over a period of four years. So every year since 2006, the age limit should be shifted by six months until it reaches 65 for men, or 60 years for women. In addition to that provision, there is another provision that protects workers from moving the age limit in the process of restructureing the Serbian economy from work, which is until retirement, for the next two years, in 2006 and 2007. Why this provision? Because this government will implement the process of restructuring Serbia's economy in the next two years, and I also want to meet the public of Serbia. After 2006 and 2007 we will be able to say – the job was done, which was sick, it was gone, which is healthy, living and life will move on. So, about this government's goal, which will certainly be accomplished, these two years are, in that sense, not to move the age line. There's one interesting thing when we talk about both of these things, about the cost of living, as a way, and about moving the age line. The whole story, the halabuca, and so on. What's interesting? It's interesting that in this country until 1982, it was so until yesterday, twenty years ago, years before that, pensions were in line with the cost of living in this country. I didn't notice, I didn't find out, maybe someone here had that information, that there was some genocide over the pensioners during that period when they were harmonizing with the costs. I'm not informed. Another interesting thing about this is that in that same period, the age limit was also 65 and 60 years, what we are now raising, so until 1982. What exactly happened then to move on to profits, to reduce the years for retirement? It's a special story. I'll probably use the opportunity to explain how I see the reasons for this behavior, why and what happened then. I want to say that these solutions were present until the early 1980s, then abandoned and now, again, under some normal circumstances, we return these normal solutions. What will be the effects on pensioners when it comes to reforming the pension system? That's what people are interested in. The main consequence of these solutions will be that in the next four or five years, pensions grow slower than profits. It's an effect that will be. According to our projection, in 2010, we have this in the Employment Strategy adopted by the government, the average earnings in Serbia should be 300 euros net, and the average pension would be around 165 - 170 euros that year. So that's what pensioners themselves are all about right in these few years ahead of us. Also, I think this fact shows that these flammable words that are present in the public have no basis for facts. When it comes to the pensioner's position, we are doing another intervention, which is to predict that the lowest pension will rise to 25% of the average earnings of the previous year in January 2006. Now the lowest pension is well below that, about 17% of that average profit. Practically, this means that since January 2006, the lowest pension will be over 6,000 - 6,300 and will cover much more people than this lowest pension has ever covered. Of course, it's one of the most important social measures of this government. We want to protect the most vulnerable pensioners. That's where this measure is laid down in the law. Of course, it's not the only measure that this government predicts. The government envisions a number of other social measures, from paying electricity, communals and a number of other things, where it will facilitate the position of not only pensioners, but also other citizens in a difficult social situation. I don't have to talk about the fact that this government has been running one of the strongest social policies I can remember for a year and a half. So, the only place that was never questionable when it came to funds was actually social policy within this government. I think it's a perfectly clear political stance when we talk about what we want. These changes in the Pension Insurance Act should be seen in general, I said at the beginning, reforming the pension system. That's what my colleague Dinkic will talk about here today. I'm talking about a law on voluntary pension funds that introduces a third pillar into the pension system. So now in Serbia we introduce a third pillar – voluntary retirement insurance. In five to six years, we will see when the conditions are met, another pillar of pension insurance will be introduced in Serbia. That's why I'm talking about a period of ten years. It is a period in which we will have all three pillars, in which Serbia's finally pension system will stand on healthy feet. It's a medium-term and long-term idea. In addition to the third pillar, we are doing two more measures that have a similar character, which will be discussed more by our colleague Dinkic. One is – the proposal of two laws on debt to agricultural pensioners from the staff fund, and another law, which I want to say more about, in addition to the pension law, is the law on the integration of internships. I have mentioned several times in this assembly, and also in the public, that this government will solve the problem of hundreds of thousands of people in Serbia who have been in the period since the introduction of sanctions, since 1991, when the intense decline of the Serbian economy actually began, found themselves in a situation that the entire multi-annual periods of their employment have not been covered by the insurance internship because employers did not want, or could, whatever it is, to make contributions. Then people find themselves in a situation, we all know that here, they go and say – I've met the pension requirement; in the Fund they tell me – you don't actually have so many years of insurance. How can I not? You weren't enrolled for five, six, seven years, etc. So, starting with the need for this society to show concern and interest for hundreds of thousands of our citizens who, not their own fault, have come into such an impossible and difficult situation, this government has prepared and you have a proposal for a law on the integration of internships, which will solve this problem. Following the adoption of this law in the Assembly, and I also expect that the law is supported by all MPs in the Assembly, when we adopt it, then, in a certain period of time, all employers and all employees in Serbia will be able to apply for recognition of the internship, then, in the coming period, the PIO Fund will give a solution that will determine the right to an insurance internship for the period. So it's hundreds of thousands of people. I would remind you, these are, first of all, the entire textile industry, the construction industry, which in the years of sanctions has been rapidly in an unexposed situation, without exits, and you know that the textile industry was our strongest export branch. Suddenly she couldn't export anymore, she was dying on her feet. So these are these branches, they're textiles, they're leather, they're shoemakers, they're builders, they came into a situation where they don't have a covered insurance hold. With this law in front of you, when we adopt it, we will be able to solve the problem in the next period. So if there's a condicional, if there's a question "if we adopt it", then whoever asks the question "if we adopt it" actually raises the question of whether these people should be helped to retire with an insurance internship. Therefore, the comments of such species are quite irresponsible. As far as the law is concerned, another important thing is that it provides for one more thing, which is that the state retains a regression request, the possibility of the employer to settle those contributions. Why? Because this law should protect people, workers, individuals, not employers. Namely, we have two groups of employers here. One group that couldn't; that's the whole social sector, in terms of the textile industry and the others that I was talking about. And you have other employers, very often private people, who could, but they wouldn't. This is why the state retains the law and opens up the possibility of a regressive requirement for employers, to those who can, who have been rude, etc. Of course, that doesn't apply to those who couldn't. In this sense, therefore, this law on the integration of internships is something that Serbian society expects as early as 2000. I don't understand why such a law wasn't prepared before, but I'm not commenting on it right now. He is now in front of us and I expect after the debate that this congregation adopts him. That would be fundamental to me to say about reforming the pension system that is under way, and I hope that together these days we will adopt solutions that will mark the continuation of the strong reform course of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, which will keep us in the position of the world leader in reforms, because it is something that is best and in the interests of the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19604	Thank you, Minister Lalovich. Seeing as we're sharing some good news, a little heavy stuff, I have two notices. It is good news that Serbia's Health Minister Tomica Milosavljevic has been elected to the World Health Organisation's leadership. And the obligation is much more important for all of us, which is that we will work today, if we don't finish by 6:00, just until this united debate is over, but no later than 20.00 hours, because of the importance of the law. The word has Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19605	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really want to confirm the words of Minister Lalovic. These laws discussed today in the Assembly are probably the most important system laws this parliament is considering this year. Pension reform is not necessary only in Serbia. Indeed, there is little information, but almost all countries in the EU, from countries in transition to more developed European countries, to other countries in the world, have had pension reforms in the last 10 years. Some reforms were not enough, so they are now preparing for the second time, the second wave of these pension reforms, for the simple reason that ageing is a global problem. In fact, all the countries in the world in recent decades have an ever-lower rate of natural growth. Serbia, unfortunately, is no exception. On the other hand, it's a good thing that the ever-longer life span of the population is the result of a growing standard of living. So, less and less people are born, people are living longer and more and more for pension systems, they have the effect of reducing the income from the contributions paid by those who are working, given that they are getting less and less as the years go by, while the cost of paying off pensions is increasing, given that the life span is longer. All countries in the world have this problem of how to have a pension system that is long-term sustainable. In this sense, there are three pillars of pension insurance developed in previous years in the world. The first and primary pillar in all countries is the state pension fund. The current contributions paid by those who work are financed by pensions of those who are currently retired, and this is a pillar in all countries in the world. The second pillar is mandatory private pension insurance, when someone decides that one part of the contribution he pays to the state fund wants to transfer private pension funds. The second pillar is possible to introduce in those countries that do not have a major deficit in the state pension fund, because it is clear that if you introduce mandatory private insurance, and you have a deficit in the state pension fund, and the contributions you would get out of the state fund, it would mean that you would have less money to pay the expenses to those who are in danger and who have no money to pay in private pension funds. The third pillar is voluntary private retirement insurance. The third pillar we are today introducing in Serbia through the Bill on Voluntary Pension Funds and Plans, where the population is offered the possibility of additional savings for old age on a voluntary basis, i.e. that, apart from funding from the state pension fund, it receives additional funds that it invests in private voluntary pension funds during the lifetime and working life. Before that, I would like to illustrate with some data this situation that has really forced the government of the Republic of Serbia to act responsibly this year in a reform of the pension system that will have full effects for the next four or five years. If we look at the statistics, the transfers from the budget to the state pension fund in 2001 amounted to 3.2% of gross domestic product. This year these transfers are 5.8% gross domestic product. This means that the reform that the previous government carried out was not enough. The introduction of the Swiss formula has helped, however, not enough, given all these trends that are happening with us, as in the world. Also, in mid-2004, there were some increases in the contribution rates for compulsory pension insurance from 20.5% to 22%. However, as you can see, the transfers from the budget to the state pension fund are now almost double what they were four years ago; in 2005, transfers from the budget to meet the government pension fund deficits were 5.8% of gross domestic product, and were 3.2% in 2001. Why? Because the pension rate has increased relatively, and the real pension rate has increased in the last four years, so the total pension payments in 2001 were 9.2% of gross domestic product, and this year there will be 12.4% of gross domestic product. So, the real far greater mass of funding is being paid for pensions today, although we are all aware that given the individual average pension, it's not something that's a high amount, but I'm talking about the mass of funds, the problem exists. We want to solve this problem on a long-term basis. Of course, this information that I made refers only to the payment from the budget for PIO staff insurance companies. If we add farm pensions, then the total expenditure for pension payments this year is 13.8% of gross domestic product. The additional problem in our pension system, which is not since this year, nor since yesterday, is that there is more than a decade, is that mostly pension funds are filled with budget transfers, and a small part are contributions. That relationship is 40-60. So to be exact, 40% of the pension money comes from the budget, and 60% from the contribution payment. For example, a few days ago I was in Austria, and in Austria, 30% of pension funds go out of the budget and 70% out of contributions. It was found to be a huge problem for the Austrian pension system. That is why the Austrian government adopted a pension reform last year, which means raising the retirement age. I must tell you that almost all Eastern European countries adopted this reform before us: Poland, Hungary, Slovenia and the Czech Republic at the end of the 1990s; Croatia and Bulgaria at the beginning of 2000, Macedonia too; almost all developed countries, with some preparing to reform for the second time, such as the United States and Japan, which have been in front of pension reforms for the second time in 20 years. As far as the Farmers' Fund is concerned, there is the worst situation, given that only 13% of this fund is full of contributions, and 87% are going out of the budget. In fact, if there were no transfers from the budget, we can freely say that there would be no, no matter how modest, farm pensions. In addition, there are delays that have been inherited from the past, related to pension payments. The late pension fund is one and a half pensions, which has been transferred since 2001 until today, and the state owes farmers 20.5 pensions. What is the objective of reforming the pension system is, on the one hand, to finally abolish these pensions, that finally in Serbia pensioners can receive pensions for the previous month, which was a normal practice until the 1990s and is a normal practice in all countries around the world. These laws we adopt will be possible in Serbia since the new year, so from January 1st next year. With this reform, as Minister Lalovic has already said, we regulate the pace of pension growth in the future. So what's realistically sustainable is that pensions grow, but that they grow slightly slower than wages. Therefore, pensions will grow in the future, but the pace of their growth will be slower than salary growth, in order for the system to be sustainable, as today 100 billion dinars from the budget, which is a quarter of the budget, represents a transfer for these two pension funds: the pension fund of employees and the pension fund of farmers. Of course, why is it necessary to move the retirement line? Because we have a longer life span of the population. It is perfectly natural to retire later than in previous years when the life span of the population was shorter. Also, the social gross product is growing. You know for yourself that last year, economic growth in Serbia was 8%, and in the first half of this year 6% grew gross domestic product. It means something faster than what the government predicted, we planned 4.5%. Now I would say something about these three laws that remain on the agenda, which Lalovic did not talk about extensively. It's two law on paying back pensioners' debts. First of all, I want to say that the total debt to pensioners is currently 43.5 billion dinars. The late pension fund is employed by 23.5 billion and the pension fund of 20 billion dinars. In total, 20.5 farm pensions and one and a half pensions are owed to PIO employees. We've decided now that for the first time in the history of modern public finances we have a surplus in the budget, we're going to go completely back on those debts. So, as for the debts that were created in the past, the conditions finally have to be met, after the surplus has been achieved in the budget, so that we can start to pay them back. Since we have a surplus in the budget, all the privatisation revenues that are realised are not used, as was the previous year, to cover the deficit, because we don't have it, we've already decided to use one part of the privatisation income to pay back the pensioners. I think it's also socially fair, given that the privatisation income is realised by the sale of assets that were state or social property, and in some ways these people participated in the creation of that property, and now it takes a part of that money to use to fully cancel these debts. Certainly, the return of 43.5 billion dinars by paying out pensioners will improve their material position, as since 2001 these debts have either increased, according to farmers, or remained constant, when it comes to the PIO Fund. If we're talking about the PIO employee fund, the debt was made during the 1990s. For example, three and a half pensions were owed in September 1999. Then, in September 1999, it was reduced by paying three pensions, but in electricity billing. Then, in January 2000, instead of paying two half of the pension in the month, only one half of the pension was paid. In June 2000, only half of the pension was also paid, instead of two, so the debt rose again to one and a half pensions. We now arrive by December 2000, when she was a transitional government after October's changes. Then three half pensions were paid, slightly faster than what was needed, so that the debt was then reduced to one outstanding pension, so that only half of the pension would be paid in February 2001, and the debt would return to one-and-a-half pensions. Since March 2001, two half pensions have been paid each month. In other words, from March 2001 until today, 12 months of benefits are paid regularly, but it remained one and a half months of pension, totaling 23.5 billion dinars. As far as farmers are concerned, there's a situation next. How did a debt of 20 billion dinars and 20.5 pensions arise? It started with the accumulation of debts in 1994, when six pensions were paid instead of 12; in 1996, instead of 12, 10 were paid, so that the debt was four farm pensions; in 1997 six pensions were paid instead of 12, so that the debt was raised to 10 outstanding pensions; in 1998 eight pensions were paid instead of 12 pensions were paid; five pensions were paid in 1999, instead of 12 pensions. It was 21 months long at the time. In 2000, 10 pensions were paid instead of 12, and then the debt rose to 23 pensions and that was the maximum amount of debt that the state had ever owed to farmers, which was in 2000. After that, 19 pensions were paid in 2001, which reduced the debt. In 2002, 12.5 pensions were paid, which further reduced the debt, so that in 2003 the previous government would pay only seven instead of 12 pensions and increase the debt by an additional five months of delays. It was in 2003, and then this 20.5-month delay was formed, which finally remained unchanged until today. I just want to say that our government, the government of Vojislav Kostunica, paid regular 12 monthly fees to farmers and insurance companies of the PIO Fund, so we've been keeping those debts we inherited, and now we want to eliminate them completely. So, really many things can be said in one way or another, but one of the things our government will be remembered for is that it has completely eliminated all debts to pensioners. The funds are not small, 43.5 billion dinars is the total amount of debt. We decided to also charge interest at that rate of 8.5% per year, and we split those payments into three wars for those who are PIO employees, so from January 20th next year, it means within a few months, that one third of the debt will be paid off and one third each year on January 20th, so that the debt will be fully cancelled for the next three years. The rest of the debt accounts for 8.5% on an annual basis, so this debt nominally amounts to pensioners who previously worked in the state or social sector is rising to 25.5 billion by 20 January 2008. So we will effectively pay 25.5 billion, not 23.5 billion, as we now owe. So two billion dinars over. As far as agricultural pensions are concerned, the total debt currently stands at 20 billion dinars, and with interest, it will be 23.4 billion, given that 20.5 pensions are due and is scheduled to be paid to farmers from 20 February next year for the next five years. There is one more thing that we have foreseen by law, which is to turn these delays into public debt from the Republic of Serbia. What does that mean? This means that this is a commitment not only to these governments, but to the next governments, because when something is built up as a public debt, to preserve the credibility of the system, every government will be obliged to do this. I have this in mind first of all because agricultural pensions will be paid from 20 February 2006 to 20 February 2010, which will obviously be the obligation of the future government, but the resources will be paid by this current government, since the payments will be in place in 2006 and 2007. As for further opportunities for pensioners, in order to clarify some things, pensioners will be able to cash in their claims before this deadline. In fact, it's the same principle as the converted obligation based on old foreign exchange savings to electronic bonds that are immaterial, there are no papers that pensioners get, but they get confirmation from the bank that the state owes them so much and so many dinars. Pensioners come to a pension bank, if they want to, for that year when they get their pension, and for the next two years they can give a warrant to sell it at the price that's formed on the stock market. If they don't, they don't have to. So, the principle is voluntary and they can get that amount in three equal wars, 2006, 2007 and 2008, or they can win the first war in 2006, and give the order to sell in 2007 or 2008, if the price suits them. If they don't fit the price, they can wait 2007 and 2008. Of course, I just want to say that we expect that the price of these bonds will be relatively high, since it's so-called. The contribution to old foreign savings bonds at the time they were broadcast in 2002 amounted to over 20 per cent on an annual basis, today is about 5 per cent. So there is a significant reduction in the risk of state bond purchase, and this will be government bonds, which is why we expect prices that could possibly be formed on the market to motivate pensioners to decide on it. I repeat once again, it is voluntary whether the pensioner will decide that what he is asking for next year's sale, along with some discount that is formed on the market, or will wait for the total amount, with interest, to raise that money. There's a principle of volunteering. This way we just wanted to let the pensioners know that if they have needs, and I'm sure they have, if they will, before the time cash. And also, one more thing, we're going to technically take this whole operation that's complicated, and we have a large number of pensioners, and we're going to work out so that those who received cash can still take that money on the basis of the bond debt by not going to the counter of the bank, but the mailmen would bring that money home to them. In other words, I repeat again, pensioners don't get any papers, they get money, by giving a warrant whether the mailman will bring it to their house or come to the bank and raise the money. The same banks will be designated through which they receive pensions to pay off this debt. I'd like to sum up these two laws. We're returning about 45 billion, along with interest, pensioners. Since the new year, they are received in the current month of retirement for the previous month. Finally, in Serbia not only will 12 months of compensation be received, but those will be time-consistent with the moment of receipt. Indeed, I think this is one of the good ways to spend privatisation incomes, to reconcile so far. Our policy is to eliminate the delays that have been accumulated in the past completely during the term of office of this government. We were able to eliminate our debts to the passengers. For these four months, from June to September, we paid close to 7.8 billion dinars to the tolls, which is from 1998. We intend to fully cancel the health fund's debt to suppliers in the coming period; it amounts to about four billion dinars. We intend to literally leave the heirs with clean bills, without a single dinar of debt. That's what our government's policy is. Maybe someone else in our place would work differently. However, we, on the one hand, have reduced public spending, saved and, I want to point out that because of some demagogues that appear in public around this PIO fund, we already have surpluses, and the reform of the PIO system is necessary because of the next decade. It is not necessary for regular pension payments, which would be possible for our government to do anyway, but we are also thinking about future governments and future generations and we really think that this is one national problem, or even multinational, because it is not only about Serbia, but about all the countries in the world, which we have to solve in one responsible way. On the other hand, the privatisation income, as you saw, except for the payment of debts, was also used to subsidise housing loans. We managed to cut the interest rates on housing loans this year just because of budget surplus. We also use this privatisation income for favourable employment loans, for regional development, for loans to Bor, Kragujevac and Vranje. This will be extended in the coming year and to other underdeveloped regions in Serbia. Also, we use to pay young people, for the most talented young people, for scholarships, for the awards of athletes. Today, in the government, we will decide that all junior teams that won the gold medal in these summer months will receive a 50 000-euro prize, so all their alliances, and all their senior gold medals will receive 200,000 euros. It's now a system and a rule that's been adopted. Also, all individual successes of our representatives will be particularly rewarded, because at today's session we adopt that decision, on a proposal from the Sports Authority. If we're talking about the last remaining law, which is a law on voluntary PIO funds, then we're saying that we're giving this law the opportunity to voluntarily save for age and to supplement the funds paid on the basis of the state PIO fund. This law is a modern law, which was done about a year in the Ministry of Finance and passed the verification of all international relevant institutions. We foresee the possibility that citizens, who want and can do so, can voluntarily invest their resources in voluntary private pension funds, by regulating how these funds are set up, the way in which money is managed by those who pay, supervision of these societies, and predict the separation of management companies, which would be established as closed stock companies, which can organise and manage more voluntary pension funds. There is also the responsibility of these management companies because they must submit annual, half-yearly and monthly reports to the control institution, which is, according to the bill, the National Bank of Serbia. To establish a voluntary pension fund management company, the founding capital is at least one million euros. The National Bank of Serbia issued a work permit. Also, as regards voluntary pension funds, the difference between voluntary pension funds and voluntary pension insurance is that when you pay money into a voluntary pension fund, you know exactly how much money you have paid and you actually know what money someone manages to cash in and increase that value when you want to raise it tomorrow. So, unlike the state pension fund, where all individual contributions are actually poured into one mass of contributions and there is no fully accurate record of individual pensioners' contributions (it probably does not exist, however, there is no individual card of each pensioner), private investment funds keep private cards of those who invest in this scheme. But the man who invests doesn't know exactly how much money he'll have at his disposal tomorrow, because it depends on the efficiency of the management of that fund. Because one private pension fund can invest money in the purchase of German paper, another can buy records of the value of the National Bank of Serbia, it can buy charters of value from the city of Belgrade. In any case, the contribution to the funds invested will depend on the efficiency of the management of that fund and therefore the whole process is voluntary, nothing costs the state, because the state invests nothing in this system, but creates only regulatory conditions that create opportunities for the management of the system. Also, he's fully voluntary, no one forces anyone to invest in funds if he doesn't want to, and in time, since these funds are developed in all countries, after the initial skepticism that is truly important to our people, I'm sure that people will slowly make decisions and the market will choose the one that makes the best contributions and is shown as the best. As for restrictions, of course, these voluntary pension funds can't invest their money anywhere. The law limits where everything can be invested. These are debt records issued by the National Bank of Serbia; these are debt records issued by the Republic of Serbia. So these are the records of the greatest security. Then, securities issued by international financial institutions, then bonds issued by foreign states, but with a minimum credit rating; these are also the safest bonds. As regards the restrictions on the investment of voluntary pension funds, only up to 10% of the assets can be invested in one issuer's securities, so as to disperse the risk. Also, up to 5% of the assets can be invested in securities from the values issued by the employer who organised the pension plan or joined the fund. As for the withdrawal and availability of accumulated funds, the principle is that money is invested, money is fertilized and increased, and after 53 years of life, whoever invests in a voluntary pension fund has the right to demand that money available in one of several ways. One way is to make it worth his while, so he can suddenly ask for everything he's invested. The second is to agree to pay him off in certain monthly or other annuities; the only condition is that at the latest at 70 years of age he must start with the withdrawal of available accumulated assets. So this is a kind of safe savings for the future, in order to complement the resources generated from the state pension fund, and that is where we need to divulge all the doubts: voluntary pension funds alone without a reformed state pension fund cannot enable the stability of any system in the world. In all countries around the world, the state pension fund is the basis, according to the current financing system, current payments, and voluntary or compulsory private pension funds and insurance companies represent only the addition of this system on a voluntary basis. I hope that this Parliament and all MPs will understand the importance of these laws, that there will be an argument and expert debate and that most MPs will vote for the safety of pensioners in the next decade. Of course, I expect that everyone will support that as soon as we cancel these debts that have been accumulated and finally since the new year, we start with regular monthly pension payments for the previous month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19606	Thank you. Is there any word from the committees in charge? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19607	At first, I must introduce the MPs and the public to the position of the Serbian Radical Party on these laws, although I find it odd why you put this law under regular number two into a single debate, since it has practically nothing to do with these four laws. And this other one that you have proposed, which is a law on voluntary pension funds and pension plans, you better have withdrawn and made another proposal that would be based on a completely different concept, and not on this mixed concept, which almost does not exist in this form in parallel practice, not only in our environment but also beyond. The public needs to know that this isn't really a reform of the pension-involved system. This is a simple patching that this government does some of the work that it was planning to do, to do so while they are in power and, the minister said, to be remembered that they allegedly returned something after a year in which a large surplus of the budget was established. If it were a real reform, we'd be in these 40 minutes, how much the introductions took advantage of time, hear the strategic definition and some ideological view of the pension problem, the pension fund and everything that comes out of it. It remains unclear what they mean under pension, what the character of the contribution is, what it serves and everything that goes on. As far as this historical context is concerned, be assured, both of them told 99% of the truth and escaped from the true truth. Yeah, there's been a pension fund problem for 20 years. Yes, twenty-something years ago, pensioners were necessarily retired-involved, and then it was known that the day would come when they shot one single form of pension financing, which is that so-called. A liquid that's been with us for 50 years. Of course, ongoing funding can produce some results, as can be heard by self-employed insurance companies, who warn and say their fund has no problems. Why? There are 250,000 insurance and 45,000 pensioners. There's a 1-5 ratio, one benefit and five of them are paying. I must warn you that there is a difference in the funds that have been paid into that fund. Those funds have always been private. You haven't solved the character of the contribution. Since you haven't solved the character of the contribution, the legal nature of the contribution, you can't go into reform. I do not refer to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, nor the provisions of the Constitutional Charter, in which you swear, I only ask the question – what is retirement? Tell the citizens of Serbia, in your concept of reforming what a pension is. Is that work-based fluid? Is that inalienable personal law or social class? For all that you'd like to determine there's a pandan, there's an answer. So what's the contribution paid by the employer? What is this contribution that is calculated and paid for? Answer these questions, and then we'll go to the second and third pillars of social security. You're missing it all. Of course, you're making a mistake. What's a secure case? For retirement, it's years of age. What age are these? You simply caught the International Monetary Fund, which has no idea about pensions, which has implemented something in Croatia and Macedonia, to prescribe transitional and final provisions that, at the age of 63, it goes back to 65. You'd have made a minor mistake if you'd copied both concepts than you did with this cocktail you made. Point 2, The draft law on voluntary pension funds and pension plans does not exist in parallel practice. You did it for insurance companies that need to be transformed, protected their capital. I'm not going to use what Djelic criticises you, that it's going towards some decomposition, etc., but it is, it's going towards decomposition, why not say so. You should know that 1986-1987 was that SIZ pension and disability insurance employee. There were three months' pensions in the accounts as a reserve that held. That's spent. It had to be spent. The number of contributions was different, so at the end of the year the surplus income on expenditure was returning to the economy. We've come to the situation you're talking about, that the one who's registered as employed and allegedly supported by one of the users. The question is whether this one registered insurance company, as an employee, is doing something to earn this. You have no vision of how pension and disability insurance should be transformed. And in 2003, when Matkovicka talked about those points, and you can see for yourself that in the current law the lowest pension was determined and not determined but inherited. Where did you find pensions to be coordinated once a year? Did you find that in Croatia? That's not true. Did you find that in Macedonia? That's not true either. What you said about that 5% that you can do overtime doesn't mean anything. What's a pension? Is that social giving? Do pensions make money? Of course, it's earned while someone's working on it. Are pensions paid in advance or backwards? The pension used to be paid up front. Why did she pay up front? Because retirement is a social category – I give you money to survive until next month. I'm not trying to confuse you, saying all this stuff. You know I worked in that fund, so I wrote some programs, too. This way you chose is no good. That way of yours is confusing. Make one pension and disability insurance fund, state pension-involvement fund, define what the character of the contribution is, the one that pays the employer and the one that counts on the earnings. Voluntary fund, in addition, give it to him, but it's always insurance funds. Whether it'll be five or seven percent of the mandatory contribution, it's a matter of assessment. We don't have that assessment. We don't have that analysis. A voluntary pension fund is a third category. These are guaranteed, protected funds. In this law of yours, looking at point 2, we don't know under what conditions these funds will be used. These assets shall be managed as property of a member of society. You've got it all figured out and mumbled about the pension fund management company. You've given some percentages, as well as what it can be placed in, etc. I can't attack that part. I'd be an immoral person if I were to attack thoughts about a voluntary pension fund, because for years we've been talking about such a fund being formed. But the concept you've done is wrong. This concept inevitably leads to a fight between shareholders, a pension fund management company and does not solve key things between a fund member and a management company. The only benefit that can happen is that these funds are still preserved, their substance is preserved and can grow, which is good and what is proof that the one who paid off took care of his social position for the moment when he is no longer able to work, but should use the fund, he should use his own. Place yourself in the position of those who have been secured from the beginning in the Pension-Invalid Insurance Fund of Independent Activities – private. Whose funds were they paying as a contribution? They were paying their own money. Is that their means? Well, it would have to be their means. Why isn't it like that with employees? You see, in 2003 the disabled were expelled from this law, but they were not provided with protection in another way. Back then, in 2003 (I think it was an emergency, there was no TV transmission when the law was passed), we pointed out that maybe it should remain in the Pension-Invalid Insurance Act, maybe it should remain just a disability pension and that physical damage. I agree with that. But what's second and third categories, your job -- other people's business, let's sort it out somehow. What regulations? That should be regulated by health insurance regulations. Maybe it's a temporary condition, maybe that damage isn't a permanent nature, it's not a permanent state. I wouldn't go back to some distant past, but it's likely that for 50 years we have a provision that speaks about what conditions an insurance company acquires the right to an age pension. Then it is said: 60 years of life for a man and 55 years of life for a woman and a minimum of 20 years of insurance training. Under these conditions, a large number of citizens today are using pensions. That condition was lost in 2003. Everything's increased in three years. Now it is lost and gone for five years more, even the 20 years it is thrown out, than remains what was always the point 2) – 65 years of life and 15 years of insurance. You're putting in a new category – 45 years of insurance training, of course, because of people who work on jobs where insurance internships are increased. That's where you made a total mess. Do you think that the Macedonians and Croats have received something by inserting provisions on the successional shift of age in the transitional and final provisions of their rules since 2000? Ages are the basis for retirement. But 65 years of age is proof that he's lost his ability to work. When you lose your ability to work, then you go on disability pension. But the insurance case should be 60 years of life and minimum, as a corrective condition, an appropriate retirement internship. You now have a category of 50-something-year-olds who have 25-26 years of retirement and can't get a job anywhere, they have to wait 65 years of their lives to retire. He cannot retire under the same conditions as his friends, relatives, colleagues from work seven, eight or ten years ago. The conditions have changed. You have even changed some of the rights that were changed here in 2003 or their change has been delayed for later. The pension-involved system does not suffer such a field trip. Get out of here. Get out of here. Retirement, it's inalienable law. Retirement doesn't go out of date. So level. What the state guarantees is not prescribed. Where are my rights if I've been paying? In what part of my rights depend on certain conditions and the state guarantees me, and in what part of my rights depend on my capital gain based on what I set out while I was working? In this context you have the wrong view, and yet he is smart – the lowest amount of pensions or the highest amount of pensions, as if it were not the lowest or the highest pension. It doesn't matter. I didn't even want to write an amendment about it. You put those coefficients in there that don't mean anything. If you've limited the maximum amount of pensions to coefficient four, then what are you doing on your field trip? So as not to show that someone in the reckoning has far gone beyond that, it's legally prescribed to go beyond what it can't go. What did you get by that? I don't get it. Why did you do that? Let me tell you something about these laws. The idea that the debt that exists towards pensioners is becoming public debt is good. We have submitted several amendments to two of those three laws. What's the point? We intervened with the amendment in a law relating to public debt to farmers for reasons to put them in the same position as pensioners based on employee insurance. It doesn't make sense that 23.5 billion return, it seems to me, in three years, and 20 billion in five years; 23 billion -- one and a half pensions, and that 20 billion -- 20.5 pensions. We've accepted that concept of yours, we've submitted one amendment just to make these people even. Where's the basis for that? The basis for that is that you boast that you have a surplus, you don't know what you're going to do with the money. If you already have a surplus, then let the users be equal. As far as this payment law is concerned, we have submitted several amendments from 1991 to 31 December 2003. There's no need to make a difference for the periods you've used to get to power, to change power, and here, apparently, there's a condition for bankruptcy, liquidation, and here it's not a condition. We've submitted the amendment. Secondly, it does not make sense to make two demands: first, to recognise payment and order payment to someone under this law, so that only if they are paid to recognise an internship; immediately acknowledge the man's internship if the terms are met, and then regulate that relationship between the fund and one ministry, so that those people who, based on this subsequently recognised insurance internship, can exercise some right. We have given you the right dynamics, if you have seen amendments, that those who have already exercised their right to this solution can carry out a proper audit, that those who are under pension, too, if their condition is that pension internship, they are given priority, within the year you have prescribed, a solution, to achieve the right to retire and to complete that job. We're counting on it to be a much better way. We've been trying to help you a little bit, to define what that solution should contain, with those three indents. So not only is the amount to be transferred from the budget to the fund in the name of the payment of the contribution, but also to see which period is covered and what duration is recognised, as well as by months how much it amounts. We think that law should get rid of it. The state cannot exclude its obligation to transfer funds from the budget to the Pension-Invalid Insurance Fund. She won't be able to turn it off for long. Since it's about the end of time, let me tell you, you could have solved this problem anyway, like when a bully enters a glass shop to interpret this Matkovic's law by system -- how much money, so much music. If contributions are provided so much and so much resources, then all those who are users, at some rate, should be reduced, so that it will always be leveled and go. You didn't do that. Of course, you can't do that because there's the other part that says -- guaranteed rights. The rights must be respected. The deficit appears, will occur until that moment until the number of employees increases. As you announce these investments, and there's none of these investments, there's nothing since the job opening, I think you're totally wrong with the concept and these changes you're doing. If you think that by harmonising pensions once a year you can force pensioners to grow their pensions slower than the cost of living in this country, then there is an even greater separation. In this second law, take care, you'll have an argument from pretenders to be the founders of a pension fund management company. I don't want to mention names, last names and company names. That's not what I want. I have to support this idea to form a voluntary pension fund, but your concept is wrong. It is a conflict in its nature; second, in many provisions the law allows the National Bank of Serbia to do some things that must be regulated by law. We intervened with several amendments just to draw attention to the wrong concept. In the beginning, you make a big mistake; if you go to the full of one reform of pension-inhabited insurance, not counting these three current laws concerning contributions and retirement internships, but these first two points of the agenda, believe me, had to be brand new laws, with all three pillars of insurance and with a mechanism developed in the transitional and final provisions of these laws for one longer period, in order to see the overall reform of the pension-inhabited system, not only for the period in which this reform is to be carried out, but much more, because of those basic definitions of how to resolve the social status of insurance and beneficiary rights based on three pillars, which, each day becomes a standard not only in Europe, but also wider.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19608	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Who answers for a word from the president or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups? The first word is Slobodan Adzic, an authorised representative of the Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group, and Dusan Mrvos.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19609	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, respected fellow MPs, as the authorised representative of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, immediately say that we will support the amendment of the Law on PIO, as well as a set of laws in this area that are on the agenda today, which will solve the accumulated problems in the area of PIO. The reasons for the support are above all we consider to be the interest of all Serbian citizens, and naturally, as a parliamentary group in the ruling coalition, we support the proposals made by the government. In addition to the PIO law mentioned, these are: a law on voluntary pension funds, which introduces a third pillar of insurance, a law on the payment of contributions for PIO to individual categories of employees, a law on public debt of the RS on the basis of the commitment of the Republic's PIO employees and farmers, and on the basis of outstanding pensions and cash compensations. When it comes to amendments to the Law on PIO, the basic reason for support is that a full reform of pension-inhabited insurance must be completed. This is not the end, but it is the addition to the reform that has been launched, the addition of the system that started since 2003, but the reform of the system that was founded at the time of social property, when all the funds were social and when the funds were one and the same. The proposal explains that the reform began in 2003, which I agree with, and then the government resorted to major restrictions in rights, but I believe that the 1996 Serbian government was also faced with a number of problems in this area, and then it started with restrictions on pension and disability insurance rights. The pension system established at the time of the existence of social property as the dominant form of property led to the following condition: first, the deficit in the fund is very high, and the share of pensions in the social product today is close to 14%. The comparisons, in transition countries, this share moves up to 10% at the most. Secondly, in 2004 in Serbia, the number of pensioners to the number of workers was 1:1,27, i.e. 1,243,000 pensioners to 1,580,000 employees, so almost one pensioner per employee. These days, the most public objections are made by one part of the staff, by individual pensioners associations and by the opposition, and most often by Article 4 and Article 22 of the amendment of the law. They're worth commenting on, because for a long time two thesis is being made: to tighten the conditions for retirement by raising the age limit to 65 years, 60 for women, which is only partly true, and to reduce pension levels, which is not true. In fact, Article 4 of the amendment does not change the views of the former Article 19 relating to the conditions for retirement. The insurance companies will continue to leave when they are 35 years old, or 40 years old (men) and 53 years old, or in the case of persons with an increased insurance rate of 12 by 18 months, 50 years of life. It also retains the possibility of obtaining age pension rights with a cumulative fulfillment of two conditions: age 65, or 60 and pension internship, at least 15 years. Therefore, this shows that the category of insurance that meets the condition of 35 and 40 years of retirement is not affected by these changes. The age limit shifts: in a transitional period of three years, for insurance workers who have worked for more than 20 years and have 63 years of life, or 58 for women. The possibility that, in that case and under those conditions, they will retire for a little more than three years, more specifically as of 1 January 2009. A transitional solution is provided for in two ways: one concerns the category of insurance who has lost her job due to the termination of the employer; another, by annual shift of the age limit by 6 months. Article 22 The bill envisions moving from the current way of harmonising pensions, to a mixed system that has existed so far, so 50% by monitoring the growth of earnings and 50% by monitoring the cost of living, to harmonising with the cost of living. This method of harmonisation would be gradually introduced from 1 April 2006, by moving the ratio 50% to 50%, by 12.5% in favour of compliance with the cost of life, and ending on 1 April 2009, when it would be fully adjusted to the adjustment to the cost of life. All those who comment that by applying this law, pension growth will be less than profit growth recognise that wages will grow in the next period, which is a certain assumption. However, the new way of harmonising pensions prevents pensions from falling realistically, since each inflation simultaneously causes a nominal increase in cost of life and therefore the bill provides for a mechanism of harmonisation with the cost of living to ensure the protection of the real value of pensions. On the other hand, if salaries grow in the next period, which we all hope, future pensioners, or now insurance companies would have a larger basis for calculating pensions, and there is no danger that pensions will be less real in the next period. One category of insurance, i.e. the beneficiary of the rights of the Fund of Independent Activities, argued that the merger of the Fund of Independent Works with the Fund of Employees would represent a kind of nationalisation of private funds. This claim is not true for a number of reasons. I'll list the most important. The bill does not change, more specifically, the conditions under which rights are exercised and applied, but through the merger of funds, the rationalisation of public spending is carried out. The change consists in the future that all insurance companies of compulsory state pension and disability insurance will be insurance providers of one fund and beneficiaries of the same fund's rights. The rationalisation consists of future professional jobs, insurance services and rights users, fund management tasks being performed by a single service, i.e. administration, instead of the current two that exist in the Fund of Employees and the Fund of Independent Works. Finally, let me stress the other three important laws that are on the agenda today, which are the proposal for a law on payment of contributions and two proposals for public debt laws, which are adopted in the interests of employees, i.e. pensioners. The state assumes the obligations of employers according to a category of employees, which, since 1 January 1991, due to the severe economic crisis in which the country was in, have not yet made a contribution to the employer, which is why the category of insurance or is achieving a smaller amount of rights or has not yet obtained pension conditions. The reconciliation of the obligation by the State to the Fund will remove one major obstacle to the exercise of the rights of this category of employees. Proposed public debt law, the Serbian government commits itself to late payments of agricultural pensions, with 20.5 pensions in 20 billion in bonds in equal annual wars by 20 February 2010, i.e. 1.5 pensions of employees' beneficiaries, amounting to 23.5 billion in bonds in equal annual wars by 20 January 2008. In this way, by taking over from the state to users of the rights of farmers and employees' funds, the government of Serbia will allow conditions to be created for the funds, i.e. the single fund that will live in the future to regularly pay out pensions and cash benefits. All in all, the set of pension system laws that we have on the agenda today will allow for a better position for pensioners in the coming period, but also for employers and investors in Serbia, which is the common interest of all of us and all public claims that highlight the harmfulness of the adoption of these laws are unfounded.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19610	The word is from MP Dusan Mrvos, authorised representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group and independent MPs 9 plus 9.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19611	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'll probably do something that isn't so unusual in this assembly. They repeat some of the things that have already been said, which Mr. Lalovic, Mr. Dinkic and my predecessors have said. As in most countries of Europe and the world, surely in the countries of the former eastern bloc, and in Serbia, the pension and disability insurance system is based on the same principle. It's that system of current pension financing or intergenerational solidarity. The system was conceived from the '50s to '70s, as in which state, and the system had an effect then because, among other things, the age structure of the population was different than it is now. The previous speaker presented data from 1952, more than 1987, to last year, on the relationship between the number of employees and the number of pensioners, so I don't repeat. I'm just going to mention each other, which is the coverage of total expenditure in the total revenue achieved, ranging from 94.1% in 1987 to 58.55% in 2004. So, in 1987, the current income of the fund was 95%, so almost total pensioners' needs were achieved through current incomes, and finally, in 2004, 40% or slightly more than 40% were touched by the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The state is guaranteed a pension payment. The state has to come out of its budget. Therefore, public spending is large and, as Mr Lalovic said, the message sent to Europe and the world is not good. Besides, there are other things in Serbia, and these are that in Serbia there is still a great burden of pay with taxes and contributions. In this way, labour in Serbia is expensive and this slows down employment growth, and employment growth is in fact the most important source for funding pensions under this intergenerational solidarity system. On the other hand, the increase in pensioners isn't just what's good, in the end, that people live longer and longer. According to some indicators, Serbia belongs to the first 10 or 10 oldest countries in the world. This increase in pensioners was not only the result of the ageing population, but also some very liberal conditions of retirement and the achievement of certain rights under these pensions. In the end, why not say that in the 1990s, with a large presence of corruption, people went into disability pensions, so that the participation of disabled pensioners in the total number of pensioners is about 30%, much more than in the countries of Europe and, in the end, a very high rate. Because of all this is the inevitable reform of the pension system. What has come to the agenda, not only changes and additions to this law, but also these four accompanying laws – voluntary funds, turning into public debt and connecting internships, these are laws that are inevitable. The New Serbia Parliament Club and independent MPs will be happy to support such a law, regretting that such a law did not come six months or a year earlier in the government's term. Reforming the pension system should allow for funding or more sources of funding. Except for this one, to say state funds, two other sources of funding or so on are known in the world. two pillars of retirement insurance. The second pillar is a mandatory pillar, but any employer can pay contributions to a pension fund he wants, not to go to the state. This third pillar is voluntary pension funds. The government has put forward a proposal for a system with two pillars of funding, with two options for a future pensioner. One is a state fund that will be financed in the same way as it has been financed and so far – from current inflows or from employees' contributions and, on the other hand, they are voluntary pension funds. Voluntary pension funds have certain principles, only a name tells them, out of volunteerness, through the possibility of accessing all adult persons, to the fact that each member of the fund has his own personal account, has the ability to accumulate or capitalise funds and, finally, has the possibility of having the funds from his own account. A voluntary pension fund has one key difference to this pension fund, to say state. Voluntary pension fund is an investment pension fund. The company which manages the fund in a certain way invests the funds, the funds are fertilised, the funds are capitalised and, finally, the funds are accumulated in the personal accounts of each member or each beneficiary of the fund. That's what's good. This country needs as much investment as possible and as little public spending as possible. That is another reason why the NS Parliament Club and its own MPs will vote 9+9 for this law. Along with the Bill on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of commitments from the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Employees, and the same for farmers, on the basis of outstanding pensions and cash compensations, the reform of the pension system is continued in the mid-80s, financial opportunities are improved in the fund, pension payments are made on a regular basis, beneficiaries with the lowest amount of pensions are protected, and finally, it is improved and makes the fund's work and services more efficient. All these reasons, I'm convinced, will come to support here in parliament. I don't expect everyone, but most MPs will certainly vote for this set of laws. On the other hand, Mr. Lalovic, Mr. Dinkic is not there, they can be totally calm. On behalf of the MPs' club of NS and independent MPs, please just one thing. The law shall enter into force on the eighth day of its publication and shall apply from 1 January 2006. In order for pensioners not to be damaged during this short period, and now pensions are adjusted quarterlyly, so that last pension adjustment should be October 1st, you do the job, you coordinate your pensions on October 1st, you end up in 2005 and from January 1st, 2006 to go to that real pension reform. Don't worry at all that anyone, anyone, will in a hypocritical way represent the interests of the pensioner. Whenever you hear that someone in this way represents the interests of the pensioner, know that it is the same as when a butcher, a sharp knife, takes care of a lamb. This will be adopted, because these are good laws not only for the Republic Assembly and for this government, these are also good laws for Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19612	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? National MP Toma Busetic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19613	The Honorable Presidency, Minister Lalovic, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in this proposed set of laws on pension and disability insurance is certainly the most important proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. It's a cruel and important law, because it refers to a huge population of people. Right now we have about 1,300,000 pensioners. Of course, it also applies to all people who are going to retire, and that number is really big in the country. For us at this point, in a text like this, this bill is unacceptable. When it comes to other laws that this assembly will discuss next week, it is about the draft law on voluntary pension funds and pension plans, the laws on taking over the commitments of the Republic of Pension Fund and farmers and employees, by the Republic of Serbia, as a public debt, and the law on labour integration. Those laws are relatively correct. We have certain objections and certain amendments, but in principle I think they're acceptable. The key law is, as I said, a bill on amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. Here, first of all, I would refer to two key members who are most important and who are controversial for the SPS parliamentary group, which are Article 4 and Article 22. Article 4 refers to raising the conditions for obtaining the right to retirement, raising the age limit. Article 22 refers to the way and dynamics of pension coordination. We believe that both members are rigid, restrictive and that they mean limiting the rights of insurance, pensioners, future pensioners. Regardless of all the reasons that it is necessary, necessary, necessary at this point, we really in this text, precisely because of these two members, we cannot accept this law. For us, these provisions are unacceptable and are in some way the continuity of the policy of the previous government. The previous government, as soon as it entered into office in 2001, amended and supplemented this law, then by adopting a new law in general led to the introduction into that law of extremely poor and restrictive provisions, which again disabling all those rights that pensioners had at the time of the SPS government, and that time was the most difficult period, from 1990 to 2000. Let's just remind ourselves, the DOS government just did, or better say, under the Democratic Party's patronage, and its satellites, for the shortest time, raised an age line from 60 to 63, when it comes to men and 55 to 58, when it comes to women. That government has introduced what's called the so-called government. The Swiss formula, and especially the formula was a great "expert" by Bozidar Djelic. We see how great an expert is, because he allegedly said he came to Serbia to help Serbia; he loses 100,000 marks, euros or something abroad. All those experts at the time ended up in our banks, with good support, great wages, great privileges. The trip was continued since 2003. We know that Djelic was coming to the SPS parliamentary group in his time, and he said right then – we are going with the Swiss formula, because pensioners don't vote for us anyway, so at least we will give them back well, because their average pension in a very short time will be far from the average salary. In a text like this, we cannot vote for this law, because we know very well what the laws were in our time, and that is what our programme and our policy that was led during these difficult 1990s, but also the honorable years are bound to do. We know when we talk about this pension law, what our laws were, what this PIO law was. In our time of retirement, when it comes to age, at age 60, when we talk about men and at age 55, when we talk about women. In our time there was a possible early retirement, a 55-year pension when it comes to men and 50 years of age when it comes to women. In our time, pension coordination was with profit growth. That way we had a situation where the average pension was 90 percent of the average salary. It is this Swiss system that in just a few years, in three years, has led to the average pension today compared to the average salary of 65 percent, and according to some of my data that I own is about 60 percent. There's a big difference between one system that was good, human, when it comes to the oldest population, when it comes to pensioners. They weren't the only advantages of our PIO law. In our time, pensions were dealt with with with the principle of the 10 most favourable years, and it was indeed a very good principle. He was good for all future pensioners, although we remember very well that Minister Gordana Matkovic, at the time of the DOS, said that the provision of the 10 most favourable years is not a good provision and that it is a better provision when taking the whole job. Time's the best way to deny it. We all know that each of the employees, and the doctors, and the professors, and the workers and the servants, we all have our most favourable ten years, even if we work at the same firm all the time. It's one time in the '70s, the other in the '80s, the third in the '90s, etc. Of course, that the minister at the time was wrong to make it clear that this system and in this way, this system of accounting the PIO Fund was disbursed and reduced its obligations. Our laws offered a number of other benefits, such as the rights of disabled workers. And do you know what the rights were? Financial compensation for physical damages, right to financial compensation for assistance and care, right to the difference in salary, right to extended insurance, priority of insurance, because you choose what's more appropriate. All those great rights that were at the time were one move of feathers, in February 2003, and I think something earlier, because before that was the amendment and addition of this law, crossed by DOS or, again, by the Democratic Party, which was leading at that time and in that DOS. We believe that this government should not go through with this continuity and do everything that this previous government has done in some way. We can say, when it comes to some of the other provisions of this law, that we have good sides, that we don't say that everything is bad. I'm just attached to these two key members. If we have certain benefits when it comes to a benified job internship, when it comes to insurance companies whose internship counts with increased duration, it is a good side of the medal, but for all people who are miners, who work, for example, hard and dangerous jobs, but in this way, as far as I understand in the debate and on the Committee, it wants 10-15 thousand police officers and people who work, for example, in the DB and in special jobs to retire. There is no particular excuse when we say – the fund has no money, and at the same time, almost a year or two, 20-30 thousand will retire precisely on these new benefits, and as for the benified job experience... (President: Mr. Bushettic, will you use another 10 minutes? I'll keep talking. (President: here you go. ) So perhaps through these provisions at a small door and this government or government wants reforms in the MUP to be carried out, to reform in the DB and who knows where everything is going. What I particularly want to potential is that this government is somehow a prisoner of everything the IMF or international financial organisations say. We know very well that the IMF often says that it insists that public spending must be reduced when it comes to gross social product; it is often the insistence that pensions must also be reduced when it comes to public spending itself, although pensions cannot be treated as public spending. It's simply someone's acquired right, it's insurance, people pay 40 years, and they have a lot of right to get that money back, of course, respecting, when it comes to the SPS, and very important principles, such as the principle of solidarity, the principle of reciprocity, and what was all the time in our power; it's something reduced now, but now in some way it exists. When we talk about the IMF at all and when we say we have to listen to the IMF, we have bitter experiences when it comes to their instructions. Not just us, there are bitter experiences and other countries in the environment. What are our bitter experiences? The IMF insisted that a privatisation law be passed in Serbia in 2001. Do you know that this is one of the worst laws ever passed in this congregation? It is precisely the law that mutilated the big robbery that took place in Serbia. At the time, made possible by this very law, there were also some sales of large companies and companies that are said to have been excellent and not good. Let's just remember how the cement stores were sold. The previous government of Mirko Marjanovica had an offer for one cement plant as many of these were given for three cementers. You know what the tender looked like – that no one can compete who has less production than 7.5 million tons, and you know, there are only three companies in Europe. That each of them gets one cement shop. So it's justifiable that it's all set up, along with large commissions from then ministers. Besides, we know what the statements were in 2003. The DOS MPs here said that some ministers, Djelic and another DOS member at the time, took $15m for a sales commission for Cementara in Paracino. Please, this is the task of the Justice Department, or the competent judicial authorities. The apostle Marijan Risticevic and those who are accused cannot be clean; either he slandered or they took the money. Secondly, the sale of "Sartida"; it appears to be – it's great "Sartid". How's it going? Where's "Sartid" now? We know it was sold for 23 million marks, and the real value was over 300 million. Where's the other 300 million? Who took that money? So this privatisation, which was a robbery, was a warrant for international financial organisations. International financial organisations have insisted that sales be made as they were carried out. You know, it's the hardest thing for Serbia. You know, these allegedly good privatisations were followed by a large layoff of workers, not to mention a thousand companies sold in Serbia, and today, a few years later, we have owners of these companies that are just the wealth of people and who have no obligation to workers. After all, the IMF also ordered that these four banks be liquidated by Dinkic. Was that supposed to happen? In our deep opinion, you shouldn't have. At least one bank had to be a state bank and all state and public enterprises there to place funds, i.e. to hold in these banks, and what the credit potential of these banks would be. What do we have today? Today we have these foreign banks. Our foreign banks, they take Serbian money with interest of 2% or 3%, and when we need to get some credit, it's 15, 12 or 20%, and it's likely that all these money is being placed in their countries. After all, the net profit, conditionally speaking, was 800m euros in these banks last year. It's a disaster. That's what the IMF insisted on, and perhaps the World Bank. In addition, the IMF and the World Bank insist on and demand, and do so day and day, to keep the prices on the market in Serbia. What's that? It's a substitute for constantly raising electricity prices, utility, phones, etc. There's a re-announcement of power. Does he have to collect the power again? That's not true. That's the point. When we talk about pensioners, about a minimum or average pension, today with 11,000 average pension pensions, pensioners cannot pay off the most essential needs of electricity, telephones, utility and bread. When we talk about our time, they say – 100 marks were small, there were many more of those years. So it's not true that there were 100 marks, but for those 100 marks you could buy anything. All of these needs, electricity, utility and everything else, were 10% or 20%. So people were quite safe with that money. Today, 300 euros are nothing for all these needs and for all that is required. That's why I'm saying that this government should also take care of how it treats international financial organisations. Blind listening, we have to do everything they say – I think it's a big mistake. Minister Lalovic, speaking of this law, has just pointed out that we can resolve this issue, but must contribute to an increase. It's the wrong thing to do if it's considered that the original funds aren't that important, so we're going to solve everything over the budget. The stability of this fund depends mostly on the original funds. Again at that time, which everyone wherever, the original funds were at the time of the SPS, meaning out of contribution, had a share of 85 or 90% to pay. The budget was 10%. Today we already have a 40-60 ratio. There are bitter experiences in other countries, what international financial organisations have been doing to repay debts from the budget. They said, as the Bosnians said, to Republika Srpska -- first you will reduce your contributions, and then you will reach pensions through the budget, and then they say -- they can't touch pensions anymore from the budget. What pensions will be – just as much as there are contributions, and in the meantime it is constantly insisting on reducing the number of employees, so the employees of public enterprises and everywhere are fired, and of course, when the number of employees is reduced there is no contribution, it is one vicious circle. I'm afraid we don't get into such a situation here either. We therefore insist that the most important and important issue of the stability of the fund is that the original funds be as large as possible. The minister will say, "Okay, we're going to that." Simply, investors are asking for the average pension to be, I don't know how much compared to the average salary, if that's this height, they're not going to invest. I don't think that story stands. Here, five years have passed, so there are no special investments in Serbia. Secondly, all these praises – here we are now leaders, world leaders in reforms; nothing is seen here. What kind of leaders are we? How many people are employed? Since 2000, the number of employees has been constantly reduced. It'll be a downturn in the next few years. Where are those investments? Those investments are not seen by Serbia. I think Serbia is in a very difficult situation, that a large number of people, a huge mass of people simply cannot survive. The task of this government, which we have supported so far, is to take care of the poorest, the people most endangered. I don't think this bill does it. So when it comes to this key law, we cannot accept it as it is given, in this text. We have proposed amendments to these key members, to Article 4 and Article 22. If those amendments are accepted, we can see how we'll proceed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19614	Thank you. Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? A deputy head of the G17 Plus Group came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19615	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, once again at the beginning I want to say that Serbia, according to the World Bank's report, is a leader in implementing reforms. The policies of the parties and their programmes differ as some lead responsible and some lead a short-term policy. The policy led by G17 plus and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is also a responsible and long-term policy. The World Bank's report therefore speaks of Serbia as the world's first reformer and thanks to this, Belgrade will host tomorrow a global presentation of the World Bank's report on how certain countries are rating in terms of enabling business climate in those countries. So Serbia is a country that has significantly developed the business climate in the past period, and that is the merit of this government. But, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would also like to say to you that this Parliament is also one of the most responsible on this plan, because it is in the World Bank's report that a large number of reform laws have been adopted in this House, which have allowed these reforms to come and that have allowed Serbia to be in this first place. In that sense, I want to congratulate all of us and all of you in this place, which we all deserve together. It will not immediately lead to an increase in citizens' standards tomorrow, but will certainly give positive results in the coming period and allow not only those who live today, but also those who live in Serbia tomorrow to live better and live more decently. As far as the laws we're talking about today, I want to point out that the G17 Group of MPs plus supports these laws and considers them very important. These are, without a doubt, the laws that caused the previous period, I can say, a public storm. The storm in the public was fueled by all the debates aimed at reducing the importance of these laws and presenting them as a reform that is against someone or something. On the contrary, these laws and these reforms are "yes" and they are primarily for pensioners and all citizens of Serbia. The easiest, of course, is to get political points when you want to defend the weakest from someone who doesn't attack them at all. This has been used by many political parties in our environment. But it is certainly not something where political points can be obtained in the long term, because this does not represent real concern for the citizens of Serbia and their interests. The government really wants to take good care of the citizens and therefore proposes a number of reforms. One of them is the reform of the pension system. That's why I want, in the beginning, to talk to you the next way. I want us to start by breaking some of the delusions that have led to the public in the past months. One of the first delusions, which comes from one false assumption, and usually wrong assumptions ultimately create wrong conclusions, is that pension system reform is being implemented due to IMF demands. That's not true. Whether we're going to reform the pension system at this point, when it coincides with the obligation to meet some of our international obligations, which we took over three years ago, or we're going to implement later, that might be a question for discussion. Of course, it is better to do so at this point, because the threat of an arrangement with the IMF would certainly result in consequences for all Serbian citizens, so it would also have consequences for pensioners. However, a reform of the pension system, as you have already heard, had to be implemented significantly earlier. The difficulties occurred in the 1980s, 1990s and after 2000. The reform of the pension system could have been implemented in the 1980s, but it didn't. Reforming the pension system could have been implemented in the 1990s, but it wasn't. The reform of the pension system could be implemented after 2000, in some segments of such attempts, but not implemented. The reform of the pension system can not be implemented now. But G17 plus certainly doesn't stand behind this kind of attitude, because we're not the ones who believe that problems should be solved later and that they need to be solved by someone else. We want to solve the problems now. We are sure that solving these problems will lead to improvement for the citizens of Serbia. Another delusion that comes from this whole debate is that pensioners will not understand pension system reform, that pensioners are some estranged people, people in the third age who only think about their pensions. Pensioners in Serbia are not like that. This may be true for some other countries where families are not connected in the way they are connected in Serbia. Pensioners in Serbia are our parents. They often live in trigenerational families, live with their children and their grandchildren. Pensioners in Serbia have endured a difficult, dramatic time of high unemployment and have often been able to support their grandchildren instead of parents. I'm sure the pensioners in Serbia don't want that. They want their children to work, they want to increase the number of employees, they want their children to be able to support their families, and their pensions to be decent enough to support themselves and possibly help their grandchildren a little more. This is what this reform brings: the sustainability of the pension system, the redundancy of the economy, and, indirectly, of course, the increase in pensions. By increasing the number of employees, the inflow of the pension fund is increasing and, of course, this reflects indirectly on pension security and their stability. Therefore, pensioners in Serbia understand very well and can understand that reforms in this area are necessary both for them and for their children. G17 plus supports reform of the pension system because it enables the sustainability of the pension fund, and hence regular, secure and stable pensions, against those who are irregular, is not known when they will be paid, which can be delayed and whose amount is always uncertain. G17 plus supports this reform and because it significantly relieves the economy and thus enables economic growth and employment to increase. You've already heard that if there were to remain an unreformed pension system, it would mean an absolute obligation to increase contributions to pension insurance. That would add to our economic burden. This would further encourage the grey labour market. That would, of course, make pensions less and more insecure. So the reform of the pension system, and because of the redistribution of the economy and because of the possibility of Serbia's economic development, is exactly what we stand for. Of course, the G17 plus supports pension reform and because it discharges the Republic of Serbia's budget. A stable budget, should I repeat, means economic stability and economic development. A stable budget means the possibility of investing in everything that is our common interest: health care, education, infrastructure and all other matters concerning and pensioners, as well as everyone else in this country. You've heard that 20% of the budget is being allocated at this point. So 20% of the total budget goes to pensions. This covers 40% of staff fund deficits and over 80% of pension fund deficits. Also, pensioning is 14% of the social gross product, and the average in other countries is about 8%. The next delusion relating to these reforms and emerging in public is that pensions will be reduced. I must say that many pensioners in Leskovac and pensioners in my family first asked me – is it true that you will cut our pensions. So pensions won't shrink. (There are more Messengers who are exceedingly insolent.) ) Pensions will not be reduced. Pensions will continue to grow. They will monitor both the cost of life and the increase in profits in one period. After that, they will monitor the cost of living and will be harmonised... I'd like to pray for some peace, if that's possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19616	Excuse me, would you be so kind as to hear from me? Everyone has a right to their own opinion. If anyone doesn't like listening to it, I'd ask him to be polite and to allow the speaker to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19617	Chairman, I'd like to ask you to put your opinion behind the pay phone, not the parliamentary benches. So pensions in Serbia will continue to grow. They will be regularly harmonised, to some extent, as I have already said, with profits in Serbia, and to some extent with the cost of living, which is something we heard, which was practice in the previous period, in the 1980s. I'd like to say something about the lowest pensions. The delusion is that the poorest will be the poorest pensioners. That's not true. Users of Serbia's lowest pensions will be in a more favourable position than they have been so far. I think it's absolutely clear to everyone. So by the provisions of this law, the lowest pension will be tied to 25% of profits in Serbia. So far, it's been about 17%. The lowest pension in Serbia since 2006, when the law comes into force, will be around 6,300 dinars; so far, it has been about 4,000 dinars or something below 4,000 dinars. So we're talking about the largest number of pensioners who are the lowest pension beneficiaries will be after this in a better position than they have been so far. Please don't abuse and twist the facts. Furthermore, as far as insurance is concerned, I want to make it clear to the citizens of Serbia that the right to retire on the basis of the insurance internships does not change. The pensioners will continue to retire – women 35 years old and men 40 years old. So there's no change. The changes to be made concern the exercise of age pension rights, i.e. age limits. It will change gradually over the next two years. Once again, let me remind you that this age line was, as the minister told you, up to the 1980s 60 - 65. It was then reduced to 55 - 60; in 2002 it was once increased by three years. I want critics of this current increase to remind me that she was then increased once in three years and was 58 for women and 63 for men. Now we have a gradual increase that's going to happen over the next four years to bring it to 60-65 years. How does the age limit move in some other countries? Macedonia – men 64, women 62 years; Croatia 65-60; Poland 65-60; Romania 65-60; Estonia 63-63, that's what might be interesting; Spain 65-65; Greece 65-60; Ireland 65-65. What is it, ladies and gentlemen, so dramaticly happening in Serbia that it is not completely normal in our environment and that it is not completely normal in the logic of pensions? Also, I want to highlight some more details that are related to this, which is, above all, that this solution will allow to support the social standard of pensioners, and to fix, because 0.00% of the funds will be able to be used to improve the social standard of pensioners, which will allow those who are most vulnerable to receive additional assistance. The level of rights in the area of disability is improved by this proposal. One important provision, which no one has noticed so far – children without both parents will have, after this, the right to exercise their pension rights from both parents. So far, they've been right on the basis of only one parent. Don't you think, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a significant protection for the weakest in our country? So, kids who have no parents left. Furthermore, women are in a privileged position compared to men. The compensation for the physical damage and care of another person also retains one humane relationship in this part. This is about reforming the pension system, which is related to changes and additions to pension insurance laws. What I particularly want to stress is that you will allow me, because it is especially important for the end I come from, it is Leskovac, it is a city where textile production in the 1990s has been devastated. A huge number of workers who worked at the time worked by not getting paid. When I asked some of my friends who work in the textile industry at the time – why do you go to work every day for years, do you not receive any salary? They answered me because of the entourage. Very soon after that they learned an unpleasant truth, there was no internship. He just wasn't there. They faced that truth. They were trying to get those rights through court. They additionally burdened the companies they worked with, but none of it ever happened. Now, at this point, a law is passed that will allow all of them to exercise their rights, to get a pension internship. So, to connect all those years where their internship wasn't paid. This will be done by the government of the Republic of Serbia to overcome this huge problem that arose during the 1990s. One good thing is for those who didn't have an internship. The second benefit is for all these companies, which are located, believe me, simply in the matte position, specifically in Leskovec, because they have huge debts to workers. They cannot enter the privatisation process, they cannot enter the restructuring process, because they are burdened with huge debts, because long court proceedings with workers are being conducted, and simply for these companies there is no progress. With this move, this law, these companies will be relieved and will be able to continue to enter the privatisation process and thus enable themselves and their workers to a healthy business climate. What is particularly significant, which has not been said much, and is to be said, is the fact that the state is taking on the commitments made towards pensioners by lagging out pensions, both for agricultural insurance and for those in employment. The state will allow pensioners to receive the month-to-month pension. It's something Serbia hasn't seen in quite a while. I won't talk about the details, since we've heard about it, and my time is running out. In the end, let me tell you something, let me read a quote about the old ones from Simon de Bovoir's studio. She says like, "Let's stop cheating on ourselves. The point of our lives is in the future that awaits us. We don't know who we are if we don't know who we're gonna be. Let's recognize ourselves in an old man and an old woman. It is necessary if we want to fully accept human destiny. "I hope you won't consider it an abuse if I tell you that MPs are G17 plus at this point, and in the context of this rare, but the true thoughts of Simon de Bovoir are aware that we are not talking today and we are not just deciding on the pensions of our third-century citizens. We are also deciding today about our pensions, our generations' pensions, and beyond that – today we are also talking about our children's pensions and all future generations in Serbia. That's why G17 plus invites you to support the safe age of all generations in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19618	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19619	According to the Rules of Procedure, because the previous speech says something that is not true, but does not appear in the law. It has been said that children who lost both parents for the first time are entitled to two pensions. I have to deny it, because the predecessor must have read the bill. On the 9th page, along with Article 17, it is said this way – the proposed change defines that children without both parents have the right to retire after one deceased parent and another parent. In an explanation, where a review of the provisions that are being amended is Article 17 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to this Act, where interventions are being made to Article 73. Here, according to Article 73, children without both parents belong next to family pensions per parent, and family pensions per parent. "How does the government define it more precisely now? Here's: "Children without both parents have the right, next to a family pension per parent, and a family pension per parent. "So this isn't the first time, as it is now said here. If you do not have any better arguments to support this law, do not use anything that the promoter did not even write. Don't go beyond what the promoter wrote. It's the right that children have always had. Now only the word "belongs" changes that they have the right. It's just a synonym, nothing more. Because of the public, not to realize that Mladjan Dinkic invented something that has long existed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19620	Are any of the other authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a joint principled search of the application for a word in writing with the order of Members of Parliament, submitted all MPs. We're moving on to the speaker list. The People's MP Vladan Vukicevic has the word, and let the MP Ljiljana Nestorovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19621	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, the Retirement and Disabilities Insurance Act in the past period has sparked a heated reaction from Serbian citizens, especially those who are retired and those who should soon retire. However, in some ways many of the polemics of some, both political and some people, their discussion reminds me of those verses of Uncle Jove Dragon: "He took his grandson's grandfather, threw him on his lap, and told him what he once was." Once, the former Yugoslavia, the second pension insurance system, the relation of workers to pensioners: five workers - one pensioner, then about 1987 the average personal incomes of the former 600-700 marks, and salaries from 1000 to 2000 marks and all perhaps different concepts than it was in the past period or today. Of course, there is no former Yugoslavia, there is no more what was in the former Yugoslavia, and the decomposition of Yugoslavia has done in these areas much that today is due to the causes that occurred from the 1990s to today. The war in Serbia, a major inflation in Serbia that has been an unremembered robbery for the past 15 years, has made it a robbery, alongside all the great goods in Serbia, a pension fund. It's just, at some point, that fund no longer existed. If something doesn't exist then you can't talk about it as something good and positive and so I realize maybe the one sorry for what used to be. Of course, in these 15 years of transformation of the economy, the failure of the Serbian economy, the loss of jobs, the insecurity of the workplace, many of them were looking for security in retirement, seeking security in order to retire. Since we are a country and also a people prone to bribes and corruption, in very specific ways and those who should not have been pensioners have become pensioners in this country. There was this retirement internship, of course, buying assurances that someone was disabled and needed to go into disability pension and we came into a situation today that from that relationship of five workers - one pensioner today we have one worker and one pensioner. Of course, great inflation, riding, unhappiness and all that has followed us over the past 50 years has resulted in many not even paying contributions to pension and disability insurance, and for these reasons, the lack of money pensions have been irregularly paid. It is certain that the policy for such a situation in Serbia has played a significant role in the past 15 years. What's certain is that all the actors of the fifteen-year event in this country are sitting in this room today. In some ways, everyone needs to reconsider how much and to what extent it has affected all these negative events that have been happening in Serbia and the Serbian people, and what it may have done at some point could possibly not happen and the situation be better. Today in Serbia there are people with the will and vision to change something, but there are also those people who wouldn't want to change anything, who would want the status quo and what point of history to put back. I think those people who want the wheel of history back and forth are still in the tunnel and they don't see that ray of light that's at the end of the tunnel. Of course, that ray of light is the future, but the future is not so easy to come by. Many things must change, much must be done, both personally and politically. New Serbia's MPs are certainly not people who want the wheel of history back, but are people who see Serbia in the European community, integrated with the European community and Serbia that will have a future, who will be able to give the future generations a ray of hope and light that what happened will no longer happen and that life will simply become a man of dignity here. It's not such an easy way, and we as a government have passed a lot of reform laws precisely in the desire that we can see that light tomorrow and be an integral part of the civilized world. These European laws are laws that have brought the entire European community into line with themselves, and of course we as a state if we want to co-operate with the European community, even if we are not in the European community, we must make them here and make them for all of us here, future generations and the future. That is how this law, which has been talked about a lot, is one of the laws that should help and enable Serbia to see that light, to see the future within the European community. Of course, we must realize that we can only spend as much as we have and every good host spends what he has and what he has earned. All these stories that these reforms and the bill on amendments and amendments to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act will not be good for citizens, that it is harmful – it is harmful what has happened so far, it is a harmful robbery of the pension fund, it is a harmful robbery of Serbia and it is damaging everything that has brought us into this situation. What we need to understand is that we must change both as political parties, and in political thinking, both in ways of handling and in work. That's why these laws change, so that all tomorrow Serbia will be better I don't know if your heart is breaking, but if you'd had a heart, you wouldn't have done what you've done in the past, that we all suffer today. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] What is good is that this law will accept the EU, that we will enter the EU and that it will be what is light for all of us and what is the future. It's good that pensions will be paid a month in a month, it's good that they won't be squandered from funds to funds, it's good that they won't be collected during the month pensions, so if there is, there's, like, five days late, ten days, a month. It's a good thing there won't be any more pensions that don't pay off for two years. It's all inherited. We've inherited debt to the pensioners of farmers for the past 22 months. Almost two years, no pensions were paid. We also inherited delays for the rest of the pensioners. And this set of laws, which, along with this pension fund law, will contribute to the overall making of one continent that will give one quality and result, is commendable for this government. Unfortunately for you, and the joy of the citizens of Serbia, all the opposition parties who have criticised, who are today criticising this law and are yet to criticise it, the parties leading the populist policy, the court policy, but the policy that may be currently giving results to the citizens, but it does not give effect. Proposal for a law on payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance. Why didn't all those parties that had the chance in the previous period do it? No one was defending anyone, anyone could at least pass the law that they had to pay monthly contributions. You were unable to pass such a law, and then you were unable to pass the law by which it would be paid. Today in Serbia, there are a huge number of people who do not have a work experience and who cannot get into a retirement situation because they lack five, six or ten years of unrelated work experience. It's a big deal that the Republic government has accepted to connect people with the internship and that those who need to retire are retired. Also, the draft public debt law of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the commitments of the Republic Fund for PIO employees created on the basis of outstanding pensions and cash compensations – and these are those who criticise this law today at the time they were in power and decided in this assembly could settle. You didn't have to leave that debt to this government, you could have solved it, and we wouldn't have that problem today. Therefore, the 23.5 billion debt is not such a small debt, and I believe that with the satisfaction of pensioners who are owed to accept it, and of course it is honorable and fair to pay what is owed to people. Also, perhaps one of the saddest facts is that those who tell demagogue stories today have deceived farmers. It's one of the most endangered categories of people in this country. For the past 60 and change years, that category of people has been robbed. Thanks to that category of people, Serbia has survived to this day. Of course, even today, farmers are the most vulnerable category, including the miserable pensions of thousands and change dinars, were unable to pay off those governments that are criticizing this law today. This government has found the opportunity to pay off those funds to farmers. What's most important, not only will the funds be paid, but pensions will be paid on a regular basis, month after month. Of course, retirement as a retirement for old age is never enough. There is no greater misery than old age, for an old man is also a sick man. Although many think that old age does not require much money, it may take more than someone in their youth, because in old age a man is sick and must be treated, buying drugs, and that is for the current standard of living a high point. So for these future generations, it's hard for those people who are already retired, but for these future generations, savings funds are formed, voluntary funds for those people who want to spend their retirement days better tomorrow and to make their days more comfortable and, of course, to maybe in an even more appropriate way to protect themselves. Pretty much, that's what's good. In the end, I'd just like to say a few more sentences about the pensioners being threatened by this law. Of course, the pensioners of this law are not at risk, that harmonising pensions twice a year is not what will affect pensioners, because that coordination, perhaps on a monthly level, on a pension of tens of thousands of two or three percent, means nothing. What's also criticised here, it's an age limit. That age limit is necessary at this point. But this law is not the Holy Scriptures either. And this law can be corrected later, if necessary. Imagine today, when you have a relationship one worker - one pensioner, when you have a transformation of Serbia's economy, when you buy out an internship for all those people It'll be very soon. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] I guess what you missed is what you want us to do right away. Please don't flinch, but come out later. I don't know what got you so excited about reacting so badly here. There are indications that if everyone retired today, then we'd have two pensioners on one worker. This would put pensioners who are now receiving pensions in Serbia at risk. Therefore, these laws and this set of laws passed by the Government of Serbia are laws that show that this government has the courage to deal with problems, that this government has accepted everything it has inherited, not complaining that it is powerless to do or do something, but is solving problems. Of course, the results can never result today for tomorrow. It always takes some time and the results arrive very quickly, by the end of this year, thanks to the work of this government. What bothers you, the opposition (the current opposition, the former government), who contributed and made this situation in Serbia, is precisely the courage, determination and efficiency of this government. Therefore, New Serbia MPs, who see a new Serbia tomorrow, who will have a future, will support the laws, because these laws will result in good, and certainly no bad effects, as they have resulted in previous reforms and previous laws that have brought about the parties today, and have ruined and destroyed Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19622	Thank you, Mr. Vukevic. Replica, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19623	I had to answer the line, because I have no intention of commenting. Every MP has the right to an opinion and his political stance, etc., but some things have really made MPs laugh in the National Assembly to tears. Please, everyone knows that pension funds have been having problems for 20 years, and maybe 25 years. Not 15 years, 20 or 25 years. Why are there problems? There are problems because, essentially and strategically, the PIO issue is not resolved, it is not placed on healthy feet. Next, and for you to know, we had a situation in our retirement, community office in one period until 1965, where there were six times as many insurance companies as rights users, where there was rich, well-being. From 1974 on up, it started with the social standard of pensioners. You are now returning it again, although no funds have been provided for primary legal obligations and pension payments. They were RH centers, there were everything and everything else, but that was the system. Whatever is paid becomes social property, which is shared by users by some also different criteria. We're not talking about that period right now. We're talking about a system failure in our PIO. That doesn't change by this law. That's the problem. Someone didn't understand what we from the opposition wanted to change in this law, because we're looking for a whole new PIO system. This guy's exhausted, he's gone, he can't get results. If anyone doesn't understand what I can do to him. It's just that for the past 15 years, a PIO fund has been injured, it's not true. Problems date much earlier. What's total untrue, accusing the SRS that we've advocated pension-inhabitation insurance for pensioners, that it be mandatory. That's not true. It is the only party that has advocated putting this on a voluntary basis, in the choice of peasants, it was only the Serbian Radical Party. That's why I called. You've brought some more stuff out here, the EU will vote on our PIO law. Please find some criteria when speaking, respect this congregation. I know you need to advertise as a party, but advertise something that makes sense and has something to do with a matter that's on the agenda. There are some things we're told here. Invaluables. Here, Vuk Draskovic is disabled, here, representing us in the General Assembly. Here, it's disabled. Who's on disability commissions? Well, doctors. And that previous government, before this government, and that previous government led some procedures to introduce order in disabled commissions. For 20 years, order has been introduced in disabled commissions and statutory audits, etc. Take care when you're criticizing something. And this -- in the tunnel, in the middle of the dark, at the end of the five-pointer, Mladjan Dinkic, manite with these songs, this is a serious topic. You have announced this as a fundamental law transforming PIO in the Republic of Serbia. I'm telling you that nothing is reformed on a quality basis, but on the wrong basis. If you have an argument to say that this is from God given as young and... (President: Time, Mr. Krassic. )......................................................................................................... What you suggested, that's fine, but give an argument, point to something. Secondly, you're talking here now – one, two, three pensioners, that's significant for statistics. From the point of view of the man who entered the PIO system he doesn't care, he's looking for his own, he's been insured for so many years. It's not a criticism to you or the previous or future government. Don't put the problem upside down. Now we explain to the citizens how many insurance companies and how many pensioners there are. What do they care? The state is obliged to give a guarantee. That's what we're talking about. (President: Time.) I just told you, the state is going to be giving out of the pension fund budget for a long time. Why? There's no other way to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19624	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Vukicevic. Please pay attention next time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19625	I'm advertising Article 101 because the previous speaker, Mr Krasic, didn't understand me and didn't understand me. I have not said for a moment that this law will be voted in the European Parliament, but I have said that the European Parliament will accept and support this law. Therefore, it is a fundamental difference, to accept this law. On the other hand, it is very important to tell Serbian citizens that the pensioner and worker relationship is one to one. Why does it matter? It's important because this government doesn't print money, this government runs a positive fiscal policy. He doesn't want to print money and we can just pay everything out of real income. Therefore, it is important to say what is the relationship between employees and pensioners, to understand the gravity of the situation in which we are today. Enough with the lies, the pulsism, the courting of the citizens, and the situation is getting worse, worse and worse. I'd love to, and she was worse until we got here, and now she's gonna be better, better and better...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19626	Mr. Vucicevic, just a moment, you answered, you advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you actually took the right to the replica, which I tolerated. Your conversation is going in the direction that you're going to open up a whole series of replicas and I don't think it's going to do anybody any good. Please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19627	I'm done. I just wanted to say that Mr. Krasic didn't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19628	You could have said that in a different way, now Mr Krasic has the right to reply, because you have reported to the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, are you in the Rules of Procedure? First Mr. Busetic, right on the line, and then Mr. Krasic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19629	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Vukevic often knows how to go out and mostly talk nonsense. That's what we all in the congregation know. We like that sometimes, but when it's too much, then it has to react. Mr. Vukevic says the war was a robbery. First, all wars are imposed on us. At least most Serbia sees it today, if it hasn't seen it, and it has seen it during all those years. Everything was carved, everything was imposed, and you can see it today. The sanctions were imposed and they were unjust. They were carved and we were accused of something we didn't do. You know that, and you don't need to make a bigger analysis. But in that war, first of all, the SPS as the leading party, we played an honorable role, we helped our people through the Drina. We'd be the biggest losers in the world if we hadn't done it. It was hard to live, but it was honorable. Even at that time production grew, factories worked, although with some reduced capacity. Even that time with sanctions can't compare with the time after October 5th. It's all shut down, it's all stopped. There are 500,000 people out of work, that's a fact. And these elections in 2003 showed that. Whoever was in favour of the DOS and that October 5th was a valid thing, you voted only for the Democratic Party. All these others were opposition, and in fact, people voted against the DOS. And G17 attacked these criminals, thieves, etc. and got 400,000 votes. And these Velinas got those votes on that particular issue, that DOS was a disaster; of course, we who always claim it and radicals who claim it the same way. Vučićevic says – European laws. What European laws? First, no role is played after 5 October around European laws. It's just being prescribed. In each ministry, there is a foreign citizen who dictates everything. I was in one ministry a few days ago by accident, there was a stranger, five of our experts, an expert looking at what he was going to say, and he didn't say anything good in favour of this people or the masses of the population. That's true. Vukevic says – now it is light. What light, my people? Please, 500,000 people lost their jobs after October 5th. Those 500,000 people are hopeless. It's just that a man doesn't know what he's saying, and it's best if he doesn't come out anymore, because we're gonna have to answer him right.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19630	Thank you. National MP Zoran Krasic, a replica of Mr Vukevic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19631	I have nothing to do with the previous replica and who is in the government and who supports the government, but I have to distract Mr. Vukevic – you know, you've really messed everything up. You don't need to demonstrate so much ignorance of the basic facts in this area. But I don't blame you for that, I really don't mind you, because no one's obliged to know everything, but you're keeping an eye on when you're giving a qualification for something. You just said international co-operation. What international co-operation? There are contracts between countries that are being concluded. There are inalienable insurance rights everywhere. They're being admitted everywhere. Every country confesses. Who's going to tell who he has to be at 65 or 60? There's no conditions. There is only one condition here regarding public finances, the condition of the IMF not to touch our pensions from the budget. We're against it. Why are we against it? Because you failed to provide what you promised the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You said October 5th at the border is waiting for 6.5 billion. They're gone. A few years ago, you said that 2005 would be the year when we would import labour, because there would be so many new jobs, right? What is it, no new jobs? You were talking earlier – we in power want to arrange for pensions to be paid out of real resources and real pensions. How can you say that? The real source of pensions is contributions. Then why are we changing regulations? So that means the contributions are broken, that they can't secure the payout, the state has to touch. We accept that fact and we're trying to find some reasons why it's so that people won't be threatened, because tomorrow you'll be a pensioner, the day after tomorrow I do. When I'm retired, I'm going to ask a question -- where are my money that I invested in a pension-involved fund, and where is the state as a universal guarantee of my rights? The topic is much more serious than you're stripping it on a simple political topic. In that sense, we've shown you some gaps in what you're saying, in some of your qualifications. I don't mind you advertising as much as you want, but make sure you don't jeopardize the basic facts, the logical facts. Does it make sense? The state has a surplus, doesn't know what to do with the money, and now you say, "We want to pay our pensions." Pay who's stopping you. Someone from the opposition? No, no one from the opposition will mind that you regulate all relations and all debts to the pensioners within two minutes. But it's impossible and we all know it's impossible. Find some measure. Don't go with the parole. The subject isn't for the parole. When it comes to paroles, then we'll all bid on paroles, and this is a very serious subject, and you devalue it, laughing at MPs to tears with some qualifications and getting angry when people come with the facts to challenge your position. Why are you angry?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19632	The word has a National MP, Vucicevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19633	I'm looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure, Article 101. When I expressed my views and opinions, I did not mention any political party here. I'm glad some political parties recognized each other. I haven't said anything stupid for a moment, and of course, I haven't even gone out to advertise and I don't go out every day 50 times for this pay phone to advertise. When people who are just advertised tell you to advertise, I think it's funny, but it's not offensive to me. So, and what I said was true. It is true that Serbia has been robbed in the past, that in Serbia since the 1990s, bribery and corruption have been number one, that citizens have been poored precisely because of hohstuplerates and robbery of individuals. It's true, and every citizen knows it. That's not why Serbia is poor, Serbia has no reason to be enormously rich and enormously poor, because some honest people have been able to come up with enormous wealth, and the whole nation has been incompetent and has reached a beggar stick. But when I said we were in a tunnel and some people wanted to stay in that tunnel, and some saw a ray of light at the end of the tunnel, I belong to those people who see the ray of light that needs to be fought for, and he is Serbia in the European Union. It is something that no one can take back, and New Serbia's MPs will stand for it. Whoever I'm funny, let them laugh, but I think many who brought Serbia into this situation are funny that they can't be funnier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19634	Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19635	Article 104 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. I'm really not going into any personal discussions with anyone. I think it's good, and because of some MPs who obviously haven't read the laws they're discussing today, and above all because of the citizens of Serbia, to say what is really in these legal proposals that we've been given. First of all, as regards increasing this age line to 65 years or 60 years and the argument that there was such a thing until 1982 without being a problem at the time, it is necessary to know that this represents some level of acquired rights and that it is certainly not European flows that what workers once achieved is now being reduced and abolished. What next of these guaranteed and won rights will you take? Are you going to say that by 1956 there wasn't even an eight-hour working day? Maybe we could return that to 10 or 12 hours a day? As for these laws, firstly returning pensioners of this debt of one and a half outstanding pensions, it should be known that the money will not be returned, but that it is about turning these unmistakable funds into public debt that will be recovered not until October or November, as some have said by 20 January 2008. As for agricultural pensioners, as well as farmers, peasants, whom all of you are very happy to call...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19636	Mr. Sarovic, this is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, this is a discussion. I see you're on the debate list.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19637	The dignity of the National Assembly has been injured by quoting some of the wrong information here.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19638	Be nice and cut your exposure short.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19639	I'm just saying what it really says in legal proposals. If I'm wrong one word, go ahead and interrupt me. As for 20.5 unpaid agricultural pensions, they will also not be paid, although we all know they are miserable, that it is 200, 300 or 500 dinars per month and that it is almost two years late, and will be converted into a public debt also, which will be paid, believed or not, by 20 February 2010. See if it's November or December and who's going to be able to live another five years, because I remind you it's now 2005. Finally, as regards the famous integration of the training of contributions, so that people do not expect too much from this law, Article 7: "The Fund is obliged, if the conditions laid down in this law are met, to adopt a solution which determines the right to pay contributions under this law, no later than 12 months after the date of submission of the requests". So, only for those categories that have the data and to which this law applies from the date of submission, the Fund will make a solution to determine the right to payment, but only within 12 months. There's nothing to say about what if the Fund doesn't come up with a solution like that. What if it's been that year, and the Fund doesn't make that kind of solution? Any criminal provisions? Of course, there are no criminal provisions. So this is just some declarative obligation from the Fund. (More Messengers respond: Time). )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19640	Mr. Sarovic, you've been talking for three minutes and 47 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19641	I'd like to order those who earn "time" so they'd be better off reading the law and the Rules of Procedure. I have the right to refuse the time I spent quoting. Refuse my time, Mr. Markovic, which has been spent on your intruders.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19642	Mr. Sarovic, you've overstepped your time again.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19643	Let me read more of this attitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19644	Come on, read it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19645	Then, it is said, the right to determine the insurance standings of the persons referred to in Article 2 of this Act is obtained when funds are transferred from the Republic's budget, within the framework of the planned funds for transfers to mandatory social insurance organisations, and in a way that does not jeopardise the liquid potential of the budget, which is notified by the Ministry of Finance's Ministry of Pension and Disability Insurance and the Fund, with a specification of the payment of contributions, or of the transfer of these funds. The Fund shall provide a solution to the establishment of the insurance standings, in accordance with this law, which shall be submitted to the applicant. So that only happens in step three. First, the Fund has to grant you the right to pay. If there's money in the budget, then it's to be paid to the Fund, and then it's only possible to sign up for that internship. So don't take the donkey to green grass. It won't be anything in October or November, it won't be for a few years, if it is. Again, the situation repeats that you impose some obligations that will be fulfilled in three, five or ten years. You won't be here in a year, and don't pass any more laws like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19646	Mr. Sarovic, this was extremely incorrect that you have now abused the Rules of Procedure. Ljiljana Nestorovic has the word. Let the People's Messenger Ivana Kovacevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19647	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's just amazing that as we're talking about one of the most significant system and reform laws that we're going to talk about in this room at all, there's this unbearable literary ease and praise that we're saying about things with; however we define them and come up with them, they're not going to be easy or they're not going to be tolerable. In such a Serbia, as it is today, and even if it is much richer, the hardest thing to do is to be old, sick and poor. Most of our population, not just pensioners, is in this situation. Most of these laws that we are discussing here today are the original laws that the SDP has proposed at the time of the creation of the government that today rules Serbia, which we are no longer in. They were proposed by a minister who was then a minister of the SDP, and he is not today. When we proposed these laws, we had in mind that a single agreement would be met between the coalition partners who today make up this government, now without the SDP, that a much more normal social context would be formed, in which it would be perfectly clear what is the Serbian development strategy, which is a system of Serbia's development, that no ad hoc solutions would be made, and I must say that the PIO reform, as proposed here today, unfortunately, is just another ad hoc solution. Why am I saying this? In fact, this government has committed itself then, even if we, the minority partner, will respect the elemental solidarity of those who, however you turn, will be the biggest losers of this transition. They're pensioners anyway. This government should have the courage to instead convince them that tomorrow, thanks to these reforms, will live better, to tell them that they were and will be the biggest losers of this transition. Of course, it would be much easier for them to see that on the other hand there is one strategy of society, for which everyone, rich and poor, says there is no such thing, so it would be, if there were more justice, more tolerable to suffer all these hardships that transition inevitably brings. Today, however, we are bringing the PIO reform into a situation where we are at the most difficult, most serious stage, not transitions, but the tycoonization of this society. How are you going to implement the PIO with all the pillars that it implies, when you have a situation that tycoons have been buying or preparing to buy the most powerful enterprises in Serbia, including public enterprises? The Social Democratic Party didn't mess with all its partners here until the end, looking for a clear, exhaustive strategy on the privatisation of NIS; we also asked about the privatisation of the EPS; we asked what happened to "Knjiza Milos". If you don't have shares in public enterprises, what are the only guarantees of a stable capital market in this country, how do you think funds work, whatever, and private pension funds? What are you going to do tomorrow, when you have these funds, when you have money, but you don't have a market, or you don't have a capital market? What actions will these pension funds buy tomorrow to fertilize that capital if pensioners have the money to simply save, as well as employees who will be pensioners tomorrow, and to pay into those funds? If we know that such a situation, therefore, is not the privatisation that we promised in 2004, when this government is formed, if the situation is such that the government is more protectionist towards private capital, according to the private interest, than to most citizens living on the edge of existence, then this is just an empty story, because these funds will remain to be more like lanterns, in the air, will be barren and it will be impossible for this system, which is spoken of so beautifully in theory, to be implemented, or that system will be stolen. Then who's gonna be responsible? Is it possible that this will happen in short-sightedness, which here, even if we MPs, we are not aware enough. On the other hand, as a Social Democrats, I am obliged to say that indeed these private funds, and the way in which it is proposed to further invest in these future private funds, bear a deep call of social breakdown and discord in this society. You have a situation today that you have a small number of successful companies where certain people work, but you also have a situation that is also capable, experienced and educated people, perhaps better personnel, work in companies that absolutely cannot afford normal wages. Now one will be able to save and pay in those funds, and the other will not be able to do so. They'll get into a situation where, even though they were better, more professional, more experienced, better working, much less retired, or no pension at all. As a Social Democrats, I must insist on this fundamental solidarity that one state, in every period, especially in a period of transition, must prove to be one of its basic characteristics. So you can't leave everything to the market. You can't leave everything to the IMF. The IMF is just a bank. I don't know what the IMF's interest is. Did we finally define this country's interest, and then go with it towards the IMF? Of course there is a need for reform of the pension-inhabitation system. We are all aware that we cannot burden the economy in the way it has been burdened so far. But that deal had to be a lot more flexible than it was made. He had to make a more flexible deal with the IMF, in order to look honest with those who will choose tomorrow in Serbia; I tell you that they will choose, because they are desperate, those who offer them the most generous lies and then you will see what Serbia will look like. (President: Time.) I'll finish. I simply need to give a plastic example, because politics is, unfortunately, for those who deal with politics today, a very pragmatic activity that needs to be solved by everyday people's problems is certainly not abstract. Some MPs remember here, they were the subject of an experiment by a medium that put them on the lookout to try to endure in Serbia with an average salary. Most of them didn't make it. They clearly said they couldn't. I would like to see ministers, who are not here, answer some questions, say whether they may have tried to live with 4,400 dinars, how many people in Serbia are receiving today. Or, perhaps, in an easier situation, with 7,500 dinars, as many as 430,000 people, as well as 15,000 dinars, as much as they receive over a million people in Serbia. If they had managed to put together at least five days with that money, I might believe that in Serbia today it is possible to live under these conditions, plus to buy drugs, plus to pay for private laboratories, plus to pay for electricity not to shut it down. Unfortunately, that's not possible in practice. That's why all the talk and bickering about this topic is completely pointless if you can't promise that in reality it's enforceable. I agree, no one is interested in percentages and total figures, everyone is interested in his own life and is able to make ends meet from first to first. But that's not possible, gentlemen dear.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19648	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Ivana Kovacevic. Let the Messenger of the People be prepared, Zivorad Smiljanic. Once again, I ask you to take care of the time allowed for exposure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19649	Dear President, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today the Serbian Parliament is on the agenda of a full set of laws to transform and reform our pension system. Why is this reform necessary? The first and basic reason is so that future pensions can be paid regularly and safely. It is easy to conclude that changes are necessary, if we remember that during the 1950s, the number of pensioners in relation to the number of employees was 1:5, that during the 1980s, this relationship was reduced to 1:3, and that by the beginning of this millennium, this relationship came to 1:1. It's not just a case in Serbia. That's the case in almost the whole world, the whole of Europe. That's why most countries, almost all of Europe, have reformed their pension system. Why did they have to do that? It's just that life span goes on, that's good and positive, but it's reducing birth rate. And that's not good. That's why all the states have already done it. Let me give you an example that, for example, in the Republic of Serbia, retirement age is for women 60 years and for men 65 years. It is also in Croatia, Albania, Romania. In Macedonia, it's a little different, it's 62 years for women and 64 for men. Not to mention the highly developed countries of Norway and Denmark, where both women and men are bound to retire for 67 years. I think many of you remember that by 1982 that border in Serbia was for women for 60 years, and for men 65 and that pensions were consistent with the cost of living. That's exactly the proposal in this law we're talking about today. However, this will not be introduced abruptly, but gradually. So they're going to move every year every six months to that limit. Only in 2009 will this limit – 60 for women, 65 for men. In this regard, we must not lose sight of the provision that has so far continued to apply, which is that women at the age of 35 and men with 40 can still retire from 53 years of age. So, those who started working earlier, already at their 18-19 years, they're going to leave at 53 or 55 years retired, depending on how many internships they have. Pensions will be adjusted once a year and, if necessary, more frequently. This will go combined by 2009: there will be, therefore, partial harmonisation with wages, and partly with the cost of life. What is needed under this set of laws, what our pensioners have the lowest pensions, is that the lowest pensions will increase. I have to take the opportunity to answer to a grandmother named Dobrinka, from Serbia's Montenegro, who asked me a month ago when these little pensions would increase, because she's receiving 4,000 pensions. This is an opportunity to answer: as soon as we adopt this law, all conditions will be obtained to do so, so that already in January all these pensioners can expect a pension of 6,300 dinars, not 4,400, as far as they are now getting. Of course, there are a whole series of other measures for poor pensioners, which is regressed heating, electricity and some other measures. It's all done just so that the burden of transition doesn't fall on those poorest pensioners. Also, in order to protect those citizens who are close to retirement, and it may happen that they lose their jobs in the next two years, if they become a technological surplus or if the company goes bankrupt, they will be subject to old conditions and the lower border below which they can retire. Also, what's very important, it's a law that allows you to connect the internships. I think we all have a lot of friends here, acquaintances, cousins who, in the 1990s and later, worked in firms that didn't pay their contributions. Unfortunately, they usually didn't know that. You know when they found out – they found out the moment they left to apply for pensions. Imagine that shock when a man leaves, file for retirement, and then he finds out he's missing one, two, three or five years of internship. Now that's gonna make it right. They'll be enlisted in that internship. I think it corrects a very large injustice against these people. What's important to them is that they know that at the moment this law is passed, within three months, or their firm or their own PIO fund can file a request, not to miss that deadline. It's very important for them to know. One more thing that will be corrected, as an injustice; it is a debt to the pensioners that came into existence in the previous period. This amounts to 1.5 pensions for PIO employees and about 20 pensions for retired farmers. So, in the next few years, once a year, they'll be paid that money, and that's how they'll get their debt back. This country so far, everything it has promised, this government has done it. As she paid back the old savings, as she repays the debts incurred by Jazda and Dafina, so will this. In the end, but not less important, I must stress the importance of the law on voluntary pension funds. Already, some people are paying extra pensions to themselves, but what's good in this law is that the state will accurately specify the conditions, meaning who will be able to deal with it, precisely to guarantee that there will be no fraud and that citizens would not give their money in vain again. So every citizen will be able to define, the state will prescribe the exact conditions who can, and the companies will guarantee a certain means that will be guaranteed all of that. Every month will be determined, someone may be able to make 1,000 dinars, some 2,000, some 3,000 to pay themselves, and it will later be returned to them as an additional pension, and that money of course will be much more than a classic savings in banks. This is how the system of this complete set of laws allows for future space to be left to form a budget that will be much more developed and will also allow for tax cuts and contributions to salaries. It's important for investment. We're all talking about how we need investment, but when some investors come in and they hear that the system is now set up for them, it still doesn't fit. So, in a whole set of laws that we passed last year, and this is very important, to create new jobs and to finally employ young people to a greater extent. That is why the G17 plus very strongly supports this reform, and that we are on a good path I think we all know, because the World Bank has just given indications that Serbia is currently the leader of the world by the number of reforms that have been adopted in the course of last year. The parliament adopted an entire set of laws at the government's proposal, and this law will also contribute to Serbia's opening up to investment. There were skeptics here, today I listened carefully to the presentations, so they said – yes, but where is the benefit of all these reforms. If we get a good idea, we've been working hard all last year and the following are the results. I think that's why we should all be optimistic and now we're following the results of what's been done so far. I invite you all to vote for this law after all.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19650	The People's Messenger, Živorad Smiljanić, has the word, and let the People's Messenger Heliana Dragojevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19651	Dear Members, today when we talk about this law, I am only interested in it, i.e. I want to talk about reforming the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. The question is raised by pensioners, and we who will be retired in a few years' time, whether pensions will really grow or will practically remain at the level of the next 15 years, and this bright future that is waiting for us with these reforms will be the "non-slipping donkeys to green grass". Pensioner status as it is today: today in Serbia, in March, pensions were received by 1,240,499 pensioners. The average pension at that time was 11.150 dinars, and the minimum pension was 4.350 dinars. This minimum pension is received by about 65,000 pensioners, and between the minimum and the average of 11,000 two-thirds of pensioners or about 700,000 pensioners receive this minimum pension. It is clear here that there will be no more pensions to monitor salary growth and that it will practically remain maltenes at that level. I know the situation in the economy. We have a million people who don't work, who don't stand a chance of working. So we know what the government is in, and we don't want to bring down the government, but there is a minimum of social justice that we Socialists advocate and below that minimum just don't want to go, because pensioners are the most vulnerable category of people; we are practically euthanizing pensioners with this law, because it simply can't survive. We had our first chance to get the president of the union to come to the SPS, to have the president of the employers' union come to us. The President of the Union of Employers, they fight for their fund to remain independent because it can pay regular pensions to private people. What we tried, and we didn't have a chance, is to talk to the pensioner's representative, Krkobic, who was coming to talk to us; he's now too busy forming a retirement party, so there's no time. But that's why I asked Milan Nenadic, president of the Association of Pensioners of Vojvodina, who for 20 years was the director of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, who knows it very well, to give me an analysis of the situation under the current law and what is going to happen by adopting a new law. He made an accurate analysis, because he is a good economist, and wrote that according to the current Swiss formula, life costs are being monitored, shows a constant decline in average pension rates from the current 65% in 2010 to 54.17%; 2015 will fall to 46.45%, and in 2020 will fall to 42.65% of the average salary. The constant reduction in pensions, to be realistic, is now shown in euros. Starting from the current average profit level in Serbia, which is 200 euros, the current average pension is around 130 euros and according to this model of harmonisation, it is the one that is now in place, if it is in 2010 and we heard from Minister Lalovic that in 2010 the pension will be practically between 140 and 170 euros, in 2010, it will be under this system, if 300 euros, pensions would reach 162.50 euros. This is exactly the range of the current system that will be in 2010. In 2015, if the average earnings are 400 euros, we count that we will have that average by then, the average pension will be 189,58 euros, and in 2020, when the average earnings are 500 euros, the average pension would reach 213,27 euros and would be only 42% of the average earnings. That's what's in effect now. However, if we adopt this law, the third model, i.e. the harmonisation of pensions under the Amendments and Supplements Act of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act shows a rapid reduction in the incidence of average pensions in average earnings. From the current 65% in 2010, it will be only 46.12%, in 2015 it will be 34.59%, and in 2020 it will fall to 27.67% of the average salary. Average pensions would be 138.35 euros in 2010. Minister Lalovic said between 140 and 170 euros. It will carry less than 140 euros. These would remain for all the years to come, because real size is shown in the euro. If the movement of earnings was shown to be faster, it would be a more unfavourable relationship between earnings and pensions. In other words, this law would practically bring pensions down; and the largest would fall on the lowest guaranteed pension. Practically, we would receive about 140 euros over the next 15 years, although wages would grow. So why is he insisting on giving up this Swiss model? If we go only to align with the cost of living, then we are reducing the pension that will be; what happened in BiH and Poland, where pensions are a social category, it doesn't matter how much of your salary you've been paying; it's going to be one of the ones at the lowest pension level, which is talking about the senselessness of this reform, because basically we'll all be a social category when we retire. That's what some MPs said, today we vote and decide about ourselves. I don't want to talk politics. I don't want to talk about robbery. You know what the euphoria was like in 2002 -- to pensioners of 1,000 euros, not to tell a sad story when one of the DOS pensioners offered free coffins. What I'm saying is that the pensioner category is compromised. By changing this law, there is an even worse situation with pensioners. I don't believe the IMF is blackmailing us that much. The IMF has the view that 3% of gross national income cannot be a deficit in the budget. However, no Western European country has surpluses in the budget. Only Russia now has a surplus because oil has grown. The Germans always have more than 3%, so nothing. Therefore, it is difficult for the government. We in front of every MP's group, if the law doesn't pass, the government falls. Why should the government fall if one law doesn't pass that protects millions and some pensioners? At the very end of the line, in this dilemma, especially us socialists, or remain government or not endanger even more pensioners, we have no dilemmas, we have to side with the pensioners and stop. It's a minimum we're not going under. We're not going to jeopardize that most endangered category, because in the end, it's also our electoral body. Yet they remember a time when there was more. The robbery started when the DOS Privatisation Act was passed, when the social property robbery was legalized, when these tycoons you're talking about started buying for 20% of the company's book value. The more time goes by, the more they answer the words of Micunovic, when I enter the Federal Assembly and when he says, "We are grateful to the Socialists, you have preserved everything, now we are going to sell it all." They sold everything and robbed everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19652	The word has a folk MP, Heliana Dragojevic, and then we'll take a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19653	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, today we are discussing a set of draft laws in the area of pension and disability insurance. From the proposed five laws, I would particularly refer to the bill that needs a group of our citizens to enable the integration of the employment. Namely, it is about the draft law on the payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance for certain categories of insurance workers. This is about our fellow citizens who are in a very difficult position, because because of us known events in our country from 1991 to 2000, because of the difficult economic situation in the companies they worked in, they were not paid contributions to pension and disability insurance. By adopting this bill, these fellow citizens will be able to exercise their right to work and work. The legislator predicted that employees who were registered for insurance, and these are the following legal entities, i.e. companies, companies, institutions, banks, other financial organisations and agricultural cooperatives in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and did not receive a pension and disability insurance internship under this law, were allowed to connect their employment. The second category is employed by the same employers I mentioned earlier, but between 1 January 2001 and 31 December 2003. Such legal entities were subject to bankruptcy or liquidation proceedings. It would be good if these rights provided for in the first category were extended to another category of employees. Is the bill for the benefit of our citizens? You're damn right it is. I deeply believe that everyone in the voting day will support not a whole set of proposed laws in the area of pension and disability insurance, but primarily this law that I am talking about, so that these fellow citizens can exercise their right to retire and in some future period, and I primarily think of citizens who have acquired legal conditions for retirement and cannot do so because their internship has not been paid in this period. The DSS parliamentary group will vote in favour of a proposed set of laws in the area of pension and disability insurance, because these laws allow for further reforms in the area of pension and disability insurance, with a basic goal of creating legal assumptions for the PIO Fund over a further period and making it sustainable.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19654	I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours. I will try to ask the Ministers to attend this debate, however, because of the intervention of many MPs who feel uncomfortable without the presence of ministers. [[After break – 15.10]] We're continuing our afternoon work today's session. The People's MP Vesna Obradovic has the word, and let the MP Dusan Petrovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19656	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first I would like to say that the work of this government has been declared superlative by the World Bank. The report says our country is a leader in reforms. This result was achieved without a great story, without self-relating, by day-to-night work, and what we are witnesses to, for the benefit of our country. As part of these reforms, there is also a draft package of laws relating to the PIO problem, which aims to solve the accumulated problems in the long term, both for the state and for the insurance companies. We are all witnessing that the PIO system for the present and future generations has become economically unsustainable. The reform of the pension system is in the interest of all citizens and, like all reforms, has to hurt in the short term, there is an improvement in the medium term, and in the long term it leads to European citizens' standards. The PIO system, which was otherwise widely accepted in most countries of the world, was created in the post-World War II period, when the insurance age structure was diametrically different from today. Most of the world was in reconstruction, jobs were in the past, unemployment did not even exist as a category, and the age structure at the beginning was reversed compared to today. In the postwar period, the employee-retired relationship was 5.2:1. In the 1980s, this relationship was significantly changed, so for a pensioner, they worked three and a half employees, only to increase the pension lists in the coming years, while those who worked were getting smaller and smaller. Now this relationship is one employee - one pensioner. Today, the situation is that pensions are aggravating factor in the budgets of most countries with such a pension system. It is clear that countries with a larger gross social product are easier to overcome this problem compared to countries in transition. In developed countries today, PIO shares an average of 8% in gross social product, while in Serbia it is 14%. The PIO-Serbia system was exposed, except for these previously mentioned factors, and the additional impact of subjective factors caused by the economic crisis in the 1990s, by the destruction of the country, thus falling into the long-term crisis and as such has become unsustainable. It is precisely this data that represents sufficient arguments to defend the changes already announced to the PIO, and demographic data also contributes. Serbia is among ten countries with the oldest people. In the past two decades, since the pension fund has been recording the deficit, the state has been resorting to various measures that have gone over pensioners' backs from the first to the last. Pensions are reduced by regulations, less or more illegal. The methodology for calculating the average profit has been changed, many law rights have been deleted, and to an extreme extent the conditions for obtaining a disability pension have been tightened, and for all this time the postmen have been late and late, so the pension year lasted ten and a half or eleven months. As a consequence, the large inherited debt of 2.2 pensions returns to 42 wars by 2006. The aim of this reform is, above all, financial stabilisation and fiscal sustainability of the system, regular pension payments, the establishment of an optimal relationship between profit and pension movement, the creation of incentives for transition from gray to regular economy, the creation of conditions for further reform changes. The first step in pension reform should be to make several major changes to the current pension law, and key changes are to raise the age limit from 63 to 65 for men, from 58 to 60 for women, by gradually raising the retirement age. This rise in age is inevitable. If we look at country data in the environment, we'll see that almost all countries have raised an age line, and all these countries have the same pension accounting system. So, in Croatia, this 65-60 relationship, in Republika Srpska and BiH, the age limit for both men and women is equal, so the age limit is 65 years for retirement. It's 65-60 in Italy. Germany recently raised the age limit to 65 years, but is already considering moving to 68 and perhaps 70 years in due course. The citizens of Norway and Denmark today work the longest in the world, retire, both women and men, from the age of 67. The 65-year-old limit for members of both sexes was also prescribed by Sweden, Spain, Finland, Ireland, Portugal, Canada, America, Japan and New Zealand. So it's inevitable that the age line will move with us. In early 2002, Serbia raised the age limit, without any transitional period, for three years each, from 55 to 58 for women and 63 for men, which brought a headache to all those who had an agreement with companies that all who remained two years until retirement went to the bureau. During the night, this age line was shifted, so many were in a completely unembarkable situation. Changes in 2002 and 2003 have resulted in some results, but they did not cover the whole matter complexly, so the effects were short-term and unsatisfactory. Under the bill of this law, this shift in age would be gradual and thus less painful. It would start with full application only from 2009, i.e. next year, the pension condition will be for women 58.5 years, and for men 63.5 will gradually move until 2009, when the condition for the pension of women will be reached in 60 and men in 65 years of life. It is important to point out that the bill also provided for a protection measure for persons whose work has ceased the need and for those whose employment has ceased due to the termination of the employer's work due to bankruptcy, liquidation of the company and the like, and those who have accepted for the past two years to be at the Bureau of Work. All of them are entitled to retirement at 63 years of age (men), 58 years of age (women) and at least 20 years of retirement, so they are protected. The second step the government proposes is to align pensions with the cost of living twice a year, i.e. regular harmonisation will be on April 1st of the current year, and the second extraordinary harmonisation over the year will be in case inflation is above 5%, protecting the real value of pensions. What is not changing, which is important to underline once again, because there have been various controversys in written and electronic media, which seemed confusing and worrying for all pensioners. So, there's no change in pensions for all existing pensioners. It does not change the formula for calculating pensions. It remains to multiply the personal point with the value of the general score, which gives the amount of the pension. The general score is still in line as well as the pension. The elements of solidarity in the system are not changed, such as: minimum pension, level of rights for disabled pensioners, privileges for women, compensation for physical damage and the right to help another person. There is no change in the possibility of retirement even before the age limit of 35 or 40 years of male training. Finally, no less important is the draft law on voluntary pension funds and pension plans, which for the first time regulates and introduces the image of so-called "the so-called pension fund". the third pillar, which has already been widespread in many countries whose experiences have been used in the preparation of this law. The aim of this law is to give the possibility to all citizens that, either individually or through their employer, additionally pay contributions to pension funds, to fertilise their funds, so that after 53 years of life, they will be able to raise money so fertilised. As can be concluded, this package of laws covers and provides quality solutions for all elements, both objective and subjective, when it comes to issues related to the pension system of the Republic of Serbia and G17 Plus MPs will vote for the whole package of laws. In addition, I would like to say that the state is obliged to take care of its older citizens, those who have invested a lot in the foundations of today's society. The first concern must be those older citizens who do not have or do not have enough means to support, and the state that cares about its people is obliged to pay out social pensions to this category of its citizens, whose height would cover a decent existential minimum. G17 plus advocates, and it has been amended, that all persons over the age of 70 who do not have a job internship or who are not enough, and these are mostly women whose office was a house, or kitchen, that is, whose invitation was to raise and care for children, are entitled to retirement from 70 years of age. I urge you to support these laws and amendments to G17 plus in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19657	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic called.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19658	I had to report for the MPs and the public who are following, if anyone is following this transmission. It was said here that nothing was touched by this bill about something called the privilege of women here. I just need to read what's written in the bill, so you can see that's not true. Article 19 has been deleted, which says: "The Ossuary is entitled to an age pension: 1) when he turns 63 (a man), or 58 (a woman) years of life and at least 20 years of retirement training". This is now changed – when he is 65 (a man), or 60 (a woman). So two years has increased. So that privilege, if it's a privilege, is denied by this law. This is Article 4. It's a bill of law. Article 7. The bill refers to a change in something that, conditionally said, some privilege of women, refers to a limb: "The limbs gain the right to a family pension", now says "if by the death of a spouse, they have turned 48 years of life", and the bill requires that it be not 48, but 50 years of life. So it's changed. Next, Article 9. The bill refers to Article 33 of the basic text of the law, point 1), parents, for men was 63, and now it is 65, and for women it was 58 years, and it is thought of the parents of the insurance company, because on the basis of the death of the insurance company, they gain the right to a family pension if he supported his parents. So now from 58 it's increased to 60 years. Almost wherever they appeared as a condition of the year of a man or woman's life, there was a change. If anyone comes and praises the government now, I understand that, but at least let the truth be told. So, it's not the perks that are in the existing law, it's been increased by two years.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19659	Mr Krasic, in order for this to not be a de facto discussion, I would ask my fellow MPs to, in accordance with the obligations of the Rules of Procedure, say which member of the Rules of Procedure you advertise and explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19660	Article 104 is true. What the predecessor said doesn't stand in the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19661	All right, but I'm asking you always to make that statement before you do, so there won't be any confusion.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19662	So it's not about preserving existing privileges, as it's called, it's about violating people's rights. If someone at the age of 48 could have realized and you're suggesting 50, then here for a pay phone you can't argue that nothing touched the privileges that exist in this category of persons covered by this law. I'm just correcting that obvious irregularity because I get the impression that there's been an irregularity because the bill hasn't been read.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19663	I thank Mr. Krasic. Right on line, the word has a folk MP, Vesna Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19664	The previous speaker obviously didn't listen well, and he can check it all out in stenograms. Now I'm going to repeat exactly what I said. What does not change, which is important to point out once again, because there have been various controversys in written and electronic media, which seemed confusing and worrying for all pensioners – therefore, not changing the pensions of all existing pensioners, according to the law. There is no change in the formula for the calculation of pensions, it remains to multiply the personal point with the value of the general score, which gives the amount of pension. The general score is in line as well as the pension. The elements of solidarity in the system, such as the lowest pension, the level of rights for disabled pensioners, privileges for women, compensation for physical damage and the right to help another person, are not changed. There is no change in the possibility of retirement and before the age limit, with a full 35 or 40 years of internship. That's what I said, and you didn't hear it, Mr. Krassic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19665	Thank you. The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19666	I really don't get it. I was just commenting on that part of your presentation, where you said that something you called the privilege of women doesn't change. I've just read what the bill says, where there's been a change from 48 to 50 years, from 58 to 60 years, and you keep going out and confirming what I told you. It's a great privilege for women. That age line was moved in 2003 by three years, and now you're moving in another two years. So, in five years, it's been moved, and you claim that no existing privilege of a woman has been disturbed. You go out and you read again, and it's actually changed. Now a woman retires with more years to live. As a condition for retirement, with family pensions, I told you, and I didn't read these other conditions, but I only read the terms of the age of a widow's wife; at one time it was 45, 2003 changed to 48, and now you're proposing to go to 50, and you insist that no woman's privilege has been disturbed. It's changed. There's no such thing as a privilege anymore. So I didn't intervene in terms of what you read: value points, coefficients, etc. No, I was just commenting on what you said there was no change in the privilege of women. I quoted what Mr. Lalovic wrote, as well as Mr. Dinkic, so you could talk to them. It's not good to just read the eulogy from the explanation. Every word has its own weight. I tried to tell you which member is destroying these privileges. You're trying to convince us that the privileges remain. Those aren't the privileges.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19667	Thank you. Can we move on? The Republic has a National MP, Vesna Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19668	Privileges for women still exist. Of course, the relationship is changing, because the pension condition is increasing, and gradually, half a year. That relationship remains the same. Women are still privileged. In 2009, women will retire when they are 60 years old and men are 65 years old. In my presentation, I have already said that many countries, as well as our neighbours, have long changed all this and that it is a condition for both men and women to live 65 years. So women are still privileged, because five years ago, they get a pension right. It's called privilege. Mr. Krasic, that privilege for women still exists.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19669	The word is from MP Dusan Petrovic. Let MP Nikola Todorovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19670	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, unfortunately, if this law gets the support of the MPs in this House, everyone will be damaged. There will be no one in Serbia who will have any privilege. It is simply amazing that there are so many pensioners in Serbia who will have a significant impact on everyday life and fate, because there are so many pensioners in Serbia, and I don't indirectly know if there is anyone in our country, including all of us sitting here, that there is no relation of any pensioner. So, not every citizen of this country is attended by a minister who is responsible for it, Mr Lalovic, or another minister, who, according to his job description, is responsible for everything that has to do with state money, and that is Minister Dinkic. It is amazing and I mean an unrecorded lack of respect for parliament, and hence the disrespect of Serbian citizens. There are 250 MPs in this assembly, who were elected in the general direct elections. This parliament represents the citizens of Serbia. I don't know what could be so important in the country of Serbia today that it would be important to overcome the debate on a law that, as I have already said, would affect the fate of so many people. This is the attitude of the government of the Republic of Serbia towards the citizens of Serbia. It's the government's relationship to this Parliament. It's the parliamentary majority's fault. MPs of the parliamentary majority, who allow ministers to behave in this way, are directly responsible for the way things are going in the country and are responsible for that, if the law is passed, which will be far worse for pensioners than they are today. Before a man says anything about the proposed laws, and above all about this basic law, about the bill on amendments and amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, it is necessary to say a few sentences and about the circumstances that led to the fact that we have this set of laws on the agenda today. The law is a commitment made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia towards the International Monetary Fund. How did Serbia, represented by the Constitution, deal with what the Constitution says, come into this situation that another drastic change in the pension system has to be made? How in March and April of this year, when in Washington the vice-president of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Labus and the Minister of Finance, called above, Mr. Dinkic, fell upon us this torment and misery that today the Serbian Parliament is discussing how to reduce pensions? After that, the Prime Minister, Mr Kostunica, said it was okay and that this parliament should adopt it. It came to this, respected fellow MPs, that the public should know that the government of the Republic of Serbia did nothing during 2004, because it failed all the promises it made to the International Monetary Fund in 2004 and because in March and April, it came to the fact that the International Monetary Fund wants to break up the three-year contract it had with Serbia and which, if realised, should lead to this country being written off $700m of the debt we have. Erem, in order to avoid this unfortunate situation for the country to remain without the privilege of being given a large debt, then someone, and for months we have been trying to determine who, told officials of the International Monetary Fund that, as nothing has been done with the telecommunications system in Serbia, because it was one of the obligations to settle the "Telecom" issues. But because nothing was done to restructure the 80 major systems in Serbia, two refineries could be audited in Serbia and thus reduce state spending; of course, by the way. What the finance minister would say, Mr Dinkic, is obvious. It's just, I don't know who did it out of the blue? Did the International Monetary Fund or Mr Dinkic do it? On the other hand, the question arises – and what is it about state spending and the reduction of state spending on another side, so that 1,300,000 pensioners come in turn and that something is cut off for them too, so that the state is in better shape than it is now? As far as I can tell, nothing's been reduced. It should be a 10% reduction in the administration in Serbia. It's a measure that, as things stand, will lead to a reduction in state spending. When you look at how 10% of the people in the administration are leaving, the largest number of them retire, so they'll become the beneficiaries of the Pension Insurance Fund. Did Mr Dinkic ask himself how many severances have been given to people leaving the state administration or public enterprises in the past few months? Does Mr Dinkic know, for example, that there are persons leaving the National Bank of Serbia by receiving 1,700,000 dinars of severance, 20,000 euros? Does Mr Dinkic know that people who received a severance of 1.500,000 dinars are leaving the oil industry of Serbia? We are here to discuss how the average pension of 10,000 dinars to the citizens of Serbia should be reduced. Where's the justice? Where's the morale? Where is humanity? These are the circumstances under which this law is being discussed today. The law is being debated, and yes, I must say again, first of all to the citizens of Serbia, there is neither Minister Dinkic nor Minister Lalovic here. I don't think they're even interested in what's going on here, because they must have given their MPs a warrant to vote and gone to do some more important jobs, I guess. What is wrong with a reform that should become an integral part of every pensioner's life in Serbia if these laws are passed? There are two things that are very important and that will have the greatest impact on the size of pensions and the standard of pensioners. Several MPs today were talking about the age line moving from 63 to 65. Many MPs justify such a measure. As far as I've been able to understand the arguments, it's that in developed countries in Western Europe, the retirement age is 65 years. Ladies and gentlemen, in the UK, Sweden, the Netherlands and Ireland, life span is much longer than in Serbia. In Spain, Belgium, the French structure of employees is much different than in Serbia. In Serbia, there are a huge number of people who live on physical labor, a huge number of people who work in direct production, therefore, of ordinary workers. In developed Western countries, two-thirds of the employees work in service. They're people who work in offices. Where there's a longer life span, when people get their pension right, they enjoy that pension for a bigger number of years. That's why it's not unusual for him to retire at 65 years of age. People who retire in Western countries are mostly in office jobs, so, of course, their health is less damaged than 40 years of heavy physical affairs. It is therefore unfair for Serbia to retire at 65 years of age. That is why it is deeply unfair for the retirement age to move from 63 to 65 years of age. Then, honourable fellow MPs, let's compare Serbia to countries that look like Serbia or the countries that Serbia looks like. In what Eastern European country (if there were Minister Lalovic and Minister Dinkic, they might know to answer that question) the retirement limit for 65 years? Why is there a 62-year retirement in Hungary and the Czech border? Why is it 62 years old in Bulgaria and Slovenia? In Slovenia, the border will be shifted from 62 to 63 years in 2009. In 2013, the retirement border will be moved to 65 years in Romania. Not in Estonia, not in Latvia, but no retirement limit is 65 years. Why should the citizens of Serbia be in a worse position than the citizens of Macedonia, Croatia, Bosnia, Hungary, the Czech Republic and any of the countries of Eastern Europe that have gone through the transition, Serbia in transition? Where is justice and where is logic? What is the motive of Minister Lalovic, Minister Dinkic and Prime Minister Kostunica, who is the most responsible for what is happening today, to place Serbian citizens in the most unfavourable position of all Eastern European countries? Another important question is the way in which, if this law comes into force, pensions from year to year will be brought into line before that. As said several times in this debate, today is the so-called. Swiss model, formula, whatever your will, in force, so the pension height is adjusted relative to two elements: the increase in cost of life and the increase in earnings. Now it's changing. Now inflation, therefore, will be a decisive element in the cost of life. More and more will decrease the weight, therefore, from year to year, the share of income growth in determining pension increases. In 2009, pensions will be adjusted solely on the basis of an increase in the cost of living, according to the Bill once a year. Once a year, pensions are coordinated only in the most developed Western countries. However, there is a difference between the EU and Serbia. Statistics say inflation was between 1% and 3% in EU countries in 2004. In the surrounding countries, inflation is less than 3% everywhere in the first eight months. In Serbia, inflation in the first eight months is 10.8%. As things stand, it'll probably be 17% by the end of the year, if things don't get worse, which is more likely than something good happens, with a government like this. So in countries where inflation is 1.5 or 2% pension harmonisation once a year does not affect citizens' living standards. In Serbia, where inflation was 13.5% last year, this year could be 20%, pension adjustment once a year, with this much inflation, will lead to a good part of the year being 20, 10, 15 or not knowing how much less than in the previous year. Where is justice, where is morality, where is humanity? The truth is, according to the bill, if inflation crosses 5% over the year, then somehow further harmonisation will be determined. But, from a bill of this kind, it is a truly encouraging conclusion: when pensions begin to be coordinated in 2009 solely on the basis of the cost of living, it means that pensioners will be excluded from participation in any life-saving improvement that will take place in this country. The pensioners will no longer care whether they increase average earnings. Pensioners will no longer care how much the gross social product grows. Nothing else will matter to pensioners in Serbia if the bill is passed. I fully understand the review of parliamentary majority MPs, who are indisputably commenting here, and it is not easy to vote against their conscience. It is not easy, ladies and gentlemen, to vote against common sense. It's not easy to do things that you thought you'd never do in your life just to stay in power. But that is the price paid by the government of the Republic of Serbia and MPs of the parliamentary majority to extend the government's mandate for a while. I will conclude by answering the question from the beginning of my discussion – what is this all about? It happens for a very simple and simple reason. When the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and its representatives, the responsible ministers, above all Mr Dinkic and Mr Labus, and then Mr Kostunica, as Prime Minister, thought about where this could reduce state spending and save some dinar without failing this arrangement with the IMF, came to a conclusion that only weak people, unprepared for serious reforms and a serious conflict with the poor reality that Serbia today has. They concluded that the easiest way to take money is to have 1,300,000 people who are old, who we can assume are not going to go to downtown Belgrade to create demonstrations, who cannot physically endanger the government of the Republic of Serbia, which are the weakest in this country. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I call on you to look at your conscience and not to endanger those who are the weakest in this country, because it is uncivilized and contrary to the basic rules of morality and humanity at the beginning of the XXI century in Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19671	I'm setting a five-minute break. [[After a break.]] My colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. I think this break was necessary to establish the order of speakers, as at one point more people appeared who were looking for a word in a little emotional way. We made the order. The first word, according to the Rules of Procedure, is National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19673	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the sake of notification to the public of Serbia, the chairman of Milan Markovic is, acting in accordance with Article 111. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, interrupted the duration of the session, took a break of a few minutes because more MPs from the congregation so called. Most of them jumped in a dreary fashion, looking for a word for a replica and on a variety of grounds. It's perfectly peaceful, as the Rules of Procedure puts it, I asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure from the bench. I thank you, Mr. Markovic, for respecting the order and giving me the word after those breaks. I, in particular, appear because of the hurtful dignity of the National Assembly, but not only of us national representatives, primarily of opposition MPs, primarily of Serbian radicals, but also of all of you if you want to look at it in the right way, and over a million citizens of Serbia and millions of others who have yet to exercise their right and gain pension in the oldest age of their hard work, who are humiliated because of this relationship between Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic and Minister Lalovic towards the National Assembly and Serbian citizens who, with great interest, follow this assembly session. I don't know, gentlemen of your majority, whatever it is, with all the free shooter Minister Lalovic, who is also an MP and minister at the same time, how you can quietly observe that there is no Mladjan Dinkic here in the Assembly Hall. Who in Serbia today is interested in how pensioners will live and how do Serbian citizens live if they are not interested in the finance minister? In the morning, too, immediately after he left, we pointed out this, but Serbian citizens, including those who are retired and who are scheduled to retire, chose between such unargumented references to the law, against which the SRS will be, in fact, between the assembly session and the transfer from The Hague tribunal (and pensioners, unemployed and students) to watch Professor Vojislav Seselj. Since our president's testimony in The Hague tribunal has been suspended for today and since this debate should go in the direction of hearing our arguments, and above all Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group and all these Serbian citizens, I protest sharply that he is not here. We really have no information, and who cares whether Mirosinka Dinkic is retired or not. Whether he's retired or not, it's astronomical retirement; and if he's not retired, he's got an astronomical salary, just as the astronomical pension had a youth's grandmother, of the three-and-a-half thousand dinars, who collected lawns in the field and never did anything in her life. Because of this and because of the fact that Serbian citizens, and above all pensioners living below the poverty line, do not have to train, eat, buy medicines, live a decent man's life, do not want such a minister, or a government that proposes such a law that will reverse all flows in our country, economics, and bring even greater misery and despair to these people. Just look at the newspaper's writings. Who are the people who pull on themselves, who put the rope around their necks, and who throw themselves out of the window? Pensioners and those who lost their jobs. The criticism comes at the expense of the former Dossian government, primarily experts like Djelic and others, all the way to Dinkic, whom you generously took over. Mr President, given that you yourself said before you set a break between the afternoon and the afternoon part of the session that it is unacceptable for the Serbian Parliament that the resolution ministers do not attend such an important session and debate when MPs, even those who have supported or supported the ruling structure so far, such as the SPS MPs, are likely to hold that word and vote against this law in the day to vote, interrupt this session, ask immediately for the minister to come. Because he is not only insulting us MPs, but millions of Serbian citizens who know that in benefits such as huge millions of amounts, apartments, cars and all privileges are enjoyed by Dinkic, his mother Mirosinka, aunts, aunts and the whole family, while on the other hand the citizens suffer, are hungry, thirsty. Therefore, interrupt the session and request that the minister come to the assembly room immediately.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19674	I'm obliged to give you an answer. Dear colleagues, I did indeed consider it necessary for ministers to attend this debate, and I still consider it their obligation, but you must understand that I, as vice president, especially as vice president of the opposition ranks, would not be able to interrupt the session because of this, with full respect for your arguments and I believe that the basic respect of the National Assembly would be for ministers to attend this debate. I'm setting a break until the President of the Assembly arrives, who will take the lead in the session of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19675	Ladies and gentlemen, a special thank you to President Milan Markovic, who has taken on a huge job today and has held a session for several hours. Mr. Markovic, thank you very much for your efficiency. Mr. Markovic was not in a position to pass on the president's notice. Of course, there are representatives here, but two ministers left at 12.15 hours. We all care about solving problems concerning citizens and our children. I'm sorry that notice wasn't passed on. So, two competent ministers for a collective agreement with representatives of schools. Not everyone could have seen that information on TV this morning. I apologize for this and thank the representatives of the proposings present, but they have no right to speak, but they must record everything that is necessary. As always, you know to what extent I make sure the ministers are present. In the meantime, I saw, firstly, a replica of Mr Petrovic's presentation, deputy president of the DSS parliamentary group, as I understood, because of the mention of party president Dusan Prorokovic, and then MP Milojub Albianic, also a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19676	Dear Mr Petrovic, although you have called the ruling majority in the Serbian Parliament on morality, humanity, humanity and other things, I will still call you a respected colleague, because I think we should safeguard the dignity of this home. I'm going to try to deny you what I understand from your exposure, because I think there were a lot of unreasonable things you've said. First, the attitude is revised, the system is reformed. The revision of attitudes existed from the Golog Island, so we say, in some other systems. The pension system can't be revised. Secondly, speaking of IMF and SCG contracts, let's see who signed all these contracts, whether it's all because of this government or because of some previous governments. I don't want to say now whether Minister Djelic may have made a mistake in 2001 or 2002. What he signed, it's a bond for this country, it's something this country must meet, and Minister Djelic paid political responsibility in previous elections. That's the point on the IMF. As far as the World Bank is concerned, Serbia-Montenegro is also unreputable in the World Bank, so yesterday we were declared the leader of reforms in the world. Next, you mentioned Ireland. Here's a concrete piece of information: the age limit for women 65 years old, the age limit for men 65 years. It's not exactly what you said. You mentioned Romania - the age limit for men 65 years, for women 60 years. I don't want to list it for you any further. What is envisioned by the amendments and additions of the set of pension system laws is the fight for investors, the fight for new jobs that will bring new income, in order to establish a realistic measure of social interventions from our budget in the future ten-year period. A similar speech was given by German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder in 2000. You know what his politics and attitudes like yours have brought? They led to the launch of new elections in Germany, as Germany has 100,000 unemployed per month, precisely because there is no real measure of social arrests. I think the speech that you gave is more appropriate to a central committee session than to a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I could tell you a lot more, but I want to protect the reputation and dignity of this home.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19677	We all have a reputation, among other things, in order. So, the first announced replica of Mr Petrovic's exposure. Mr. Albian, I'll tell you over the microphone, that it's easier to hear, we don't have to yell at each other. So now the replicas go to Mr Petrovic's presentation, then the replicas to the speakers. You called in a replica of Mr. Prophetic's exposure? All right, after that, since I've already given my word. Mr. Albianic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19678	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the social demagogy of Mr. Petrovic is interesting and the radical dictionary of Mr. Petrovic. Just to put it together, the radical demagogy of Mr Petrovic is interesting. Is it possible, Mr. Petrovic, and I have warned you many times whether it emerges from the fact that DS belongs to the Socialist International, well, God, you fight, like all the left-wings in Europe, or actually these agreements with radicals in the hallway are being translated into a congregation pay phone and your speech. I warned you in time that such a way of working a democratic representative here was not good, primarily for you. If you continue to do so, you will bring down your own credibility not only in the Assembly, but also in your party and the general public in Serbia. It is not worth it to you to climb in and prove that reforms in Serbia are not being implemented. The thing is, on the contrary, different. It is unfortunate, Mr Petrovic, that you want to create a worse picture of Serbia than others do. How do others see us? By the fact that this government of the Republic of Serbia is responsible for obtaining a feasibility study and this vision has been given by the EU. Because this country has received trade privileges from the United States, and this vision has been given by the United States. Because this government has successfully negotiated with the IMF and we are on the verge of a final audit. It's seeing the IMF about us. Because the World Bank says we're leaders in reforms in the world. It's a sighting on the outside. Only Mr. Petrovic thinks it's something different. I think it's politically bad, I don't think it's even diplomaticly good. It seems to me that this country, both inside and in the world, should be represented in one decent way, and that way you don't show it here. You show something more than that. You're showing a tendency to tell the truth, because that's what we're talking about, if we're talking about age boundaries, we need to read the exact data. (President: Time. ) Mr Petrovic, take and read, so you have 65 years and 60 in Albania, in Croatia 65 years and 60, in Poland 65 years and 60, in Romania 65 years and 60, in Ireland 65 years and 60 etc. Also, you're baratating false facts about inflation... (President: Time, Mr. Albianic. I'm done. And people need to know that inflation is going on in 2001 - 40.7; 2002 - 14.8; 2003 - 7.8; 2004 - 13.7; and the 2005 estimate - 14%. Projection for next year: 2006 - 8.5; 2007 - 6.5; and 2008 - 4.5. Don't try radical demagogue to distract MPs in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19679	Please, be... I realized, Mrs. Plassic, I realized, there's no reason, we respect dignity. Of course, let me let you know. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, the following order, I thank you: Mr. Petrovic, who accepted that I had already given the word to Mr. Albianić, so he accepted by noding his head, you, Mrs. Plasic, Mr. Momcilov, and Mr. Krasic. In that order, please. Once again, I remind all parties, the representatives of all parties in this assembly are representatives of democratic parties and have been elected democratically and therefore I do not respond, and there have been several calls, when someone is qualified to speak in another party's vocabulary, because I do not know if it is praise or pride. That's what speakers decide. No one gets hurt in any way, and that's why I can't interrupt the speakers. Here you go, Mr. Petrovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19680	Thank you, Mr. President. I think it's a good thing I criticized the absence of the minister's session, and Mr. Lalovic came here, and that's a good sign, as it is not a good sign that there is no Dinkic here. Dinkic really demeans both the citizens and the Assembly, it is a manners and it is no longer worth talking about. What I've said is the source of my beliefs, and what comes from you, Mr. Albianic, and from where, I can't say, it's for serious consideration in different places. Of course, it doesn't matter. I want to say a few sentences about what Mr. Prophetovich is, who is a nice guy and I respect that he defends... (President: Please, without taking data out of private life and without flirting, please. )......................................................................................................... The parliamentary majority, but about a few allegations he made here. So, Mr. Prophetovich, the revision is a review of a particular topic and certain things, so as this is about having the pension system back on the agenda through the bill, then the verb that depicts the action that means the revision is reviewing, so we're dealing here with trying to revise the pension system. Whether he succeeds or does not depend on whether the parliamentary majority will vote or not. Of course the agreement with the IMF was signed during the late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic's government, and that is not disputed. What is essential is that by redecorating the country's economic system, we come to a more favourable external trade situation. This situation, of course, will be much more favourable if we get the intended write-off, than if we don't get that write-off. That's exactly what you said, but you didn't say other things. Twice a year, a review of the agreement is being carried out and twice a year, as students, the IMF confirms semesters and says whether all the things the state was supposed to do were done or not. In March, the IMF said -- you didn't do well in 2004, we want to break the contract. Then someone from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that someone could be either Minister Dinkic or Vice President Labus, and then the Prime Minister said, no, no, we'll change the pension system and we'll do something with NIS, and we'll talk about it here and I won't go off the topic of the agenda and re-sell the refineries. Therefore, today we are in trouble that if this law is passed, pensioners in Serbia will be in a much worse position than they are today. The government was unable to lead a good economic policy in 2004 and because negotiators went to Washington unprepared. Even one minister said there was an ominous thing going on there. It's an amazing thing to sell. Imagine, the refineries are selling. The pension system is changing dramatically, making it worse for pensioners than it is now. (President: Time. ) Again to return to one part of what you, Mr Prophetovic, said, and also to a part of what Mr Albianic said: Hungary, the Czech Republic, Lithuania and Latvia – 62 years is the retirement limit, Estonia – 63 years, Bulgaria and Slovenia will change the age limit to 63 years in 2009. Serbian citizens may not know, but in Slovenia there is a gross social product per capita of around 15,000 euros; in Slovenia people will retire from 63 in 2009. In Serbia, which has 2,000 euros, it will retire at 65. (President: Time. Mr. President, since the speakers were timed out, I'd just like to say one more thing. Romania will retire at the age of 65 only in 2013. They have passed a law that will start producing these legal facts regarding the 65-year-old age limit. You didn't understand what I was saying about Western countries. Of course, in Western Europe, the retirement limit is 65 years, but in the Western world, life span is much longer, so when you retire at 65 you can use your pension longer than in Serbia. In Western countries 2/3 of people work in service and are not physical workers, the whole structure of the workforce is different than in Serbia. It is therefore unfair for people to retire at 65 years old in Serbia. At the very end, two facts are also important: among people over 65, 25% are below the poverty line. It is not a social category to be hit by to meet the demands we have towards the international community, because that is not necessary. It's not demagogy. It is necessary to think about society as a system, so see who has the strength to take on the burden of reform and who no longer has that power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19681	Thank you, Mr. Petrovich. The word has the deputy president of the G17 plus Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic, according to the Business, and Mr Krasic, the authorised representative, according to the Rules of Procedure, and Mr Momcilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19682	I've got a little intervention. I have reported to the Rules of Procedure on Ms Jovanovic's presentation, and I believe I also have the right to reply to Mr Petrovic's presentation, but I will try to make it all in one statement. I reported advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure and I think the chairman has done that injury because he has allowed MEP Jovanovic to talk about our families. For me, it's absolutely unacceptable. Once again I ask that we return this discussion to where it belongs, to bring it back here, to have the discussion between us with all the arguments we have. Please once again, as I have asked you ten times so far, don't talk about our families. So I would ask the president to react sharply to the fact that the MPs of the radical party are talking about the dead, to talk about our people and our dead grandparents and our dead parents. President, I really ask that this practice finally be interrupted in the Serbian Parliament. I also expect the next move to be a debate with our underage children. Please, let's respect the family values of Serbia, honor the family of Serbia, and let's not talk about the members of our families. It's really inappropriate for serious people. As for Mr Petrovic's exposure, I really must say one thing. As early as yesterday, in this assembly, the Democratic Party and Mr Petrovic said, criticising the government, that the government does not have the strength to face reforms, that the government does not have the power to implement reforms, that the government does not have the power to restructure businesses, that the government is creating social budgets to enlist voters, etc. Today, when the government has shown that it has this power, we hear a completely different story. The Democratic Party should finally determine whether it is for reforms or against reforms. I would ask you, we also had the opportunity to hear on the Committee on Labour, Employment and Social Affairs that representatives of the Democratic Party said it was natural to vote against this law, faced with arguments from other MPs and losing the power of the arguments, that it is quite natural that they vote against because they are opposition. It's not natural for the opposition to vote against everything. The opposition must vote for the benefit of the citizens. Please, I think it is perfectly clear to the Democratic Party, whose recognition for the reforms it has carried out in the period when it was in power, it is perfectly natural for the Democratic Party to support reforms in Serbia and it is unnatural that, beyond its definitions and its programme, reforms in Serbia. It is perfectly clear that this is reform law, that this is a law that is not against anyone, that this is a law that is for the benefit of all Serbian citizens. I ask you best to respect it in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19683	Thank you, Mrs. Plassic. Mrs Plasic, first I would like to ask you to listen to the clarification: I have already thanked Mr Markovic, who led the previous part with great tolerance. I assume that the injury you are complaining about is Article 104, which says – it is not allowed to use offensive expressions, nor is it to present facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. He was just being tolerated. Do you accept the clarification and there is no need for the Assembly to declare it? Thank you. Then, a replica of your exposure will be given to Ms Natasa Jovanovic and Mr Dusan Petrovic, who asked for it, and to Mr Milan Markovic. Now, according to the Rules of Procedure, and hopefully after that, we will be able to follow the Rules of Procedure, as we have already announced, the word has Zoran Krasic, and then the People's MP Paja Momcilov. Mr. Petrovic has reported to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19684	President, I reported to the Rules of Procedure because you did not intervene to warn the president of the G17 parliamentary group, Mr Albianic, because in a negative context he used the words "radical manner", "radical speech", etc. Of course, he was in the morning, but he had no intention of reporting because the B92 was being followed by a trial in The Hague, but as televisions were included and, of course, Serbian citizens were watching this transmission, he now found to come with a written replica. So someone wrote him a replica, came in, read and replicated. Please, if this is obviously the wrong form of replica, the evidence is in the next one.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19685	Excuse me, just tell me, what member's injury?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19686	Article 104, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19687	Please, only the president has the right to interrupt the speaker, and here we are talking about a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I have already seen that you have called on Article 104 and you have said that it is forbidden for the MP to speak the truth, Mr Markovic chaired. That doesn't say in Article 104 because no one has the right to assess it, MPs have immunity. Please, before your presentation, I have strongly warned Mr Albianic, by first ringing, and then by clarifying, that all parties here are democratic and that they cannot be considered negative or positive, and you think that the dignity of one party's MPs has been injured because the name of the party has been used, by you, in a negative tone, do I understand you well?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19688	May I, President, explain to you where you have made a mistake in applying the Rules of Procedure? You got me wrong. I'm grateful to Mr. Albianic for coming out and saying these things. But I warn you, Mr. President, you were not here in the morning and certainly could not have put Mr. Albianic in the same context of the opposition of the Serbian Radical Party and the objections of the Democratic Party. We took the time this morning to point out that we disagreed with this bill and showed that we did not agree in 2003, when Mr Petrovic's party also carried out some reforms in pension and disability insurance. Please, obviously, Mr Albianic has misused the name of the Serbian Radical Party or several concepts from the name of the Serbian Radical Party to identify things you cannot identify. The fact that Mr. Albianic does not understand this topic here on the agenda, so he has to come here with written lines to read, that's his problem, but as chairman I warn you: what Albianic did was not done during Milan Markovic's presidency, but while you were sitting there, but you did not pay attention, you allowed him to talk, and that you wanted to warn him, why you did not give him a warning. He did it on purpose. This morning, I repeatedly went out here and warned the G17 Plus MPs, who had deceived the public about the privilege of women and the rights of the child to two family pensions. Your MPs read the bill written by Mladjan Dinkic and misread it. Please, if you have any conflicts in your party, take a break, make a deal. But don't let your MPs deny what Mladjan Dinkic wrote, and then call us. It's not our fault someone can't read something. I went out for a pay phone twice to read what Dinkic wrote, and your MPs here say some fairy tales. Please stop talking that way. Now that there's no transmission from The Hague, we've moved on to this television broadcast, to the television broadcast of Parliament's session. She took a shit at point one so no one would notice point two. Crime is at point 2. That's why Albianic came -- to distract everyone, to talk about point 1, and to forget point 2. There's crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19689	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. I'll accept the way you explained it. I gave you my word in the Rules of Procedure because I didn't notice that Mr. Albianic misread Article 101, so you're not looking for an injury, but by Article 101. You're looking for a word from the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Momchilov. Mr. Petrovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Then the replicas are made by Miss Jovanovic and Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19690	Dear People's MPs, I am advertising this very member of the House that you have discussed well here, which is Article 104: "People's MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". You can interpret, Mr. President, in a sarcastic way what has been said here and convince us that he may have given us compliments with his exposure to the head of the G17 parliamentary group. We, of course, won't believe that. We are not concerned that this young gentleman has allowed himself to speak here in more than 80 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party. The gentleman doesn't understand where he is. It is located in a virtual world, where everything is beautifully arranged, where everything works and where everything is good, only the radicals, the socialists and the Julyers are not good, so that the world is ideal. It's a man who, because of his inexperience and because you're giving him the instructions you're giving him, the embarrassment here and yourself, and the great shame and the group G17 plus. Here, now he's getting instructions again. He'll come out again to replicate. What I resent to this young man is his insolence and his insolence. He comes out here and reads what someone writes to him. The numbers are clear and accurate. We're told that we speak demagogue, that we speak false. We are now constantly carrying papers to give you these papers, and to the citizens of Serbia. Please, age is: in Denmark 62 - 60; in Sweden 65-66; in Italy 58-56; France 60-60. Why don't you read all over Europe? Why are you reading projections that will be up front? I'm talking about today. We're talking about today, not projections. There's a document here that shows that these regulations are changing. But you're not going to say the key thing that needs to be clarified: the years of life expected in Serbia for a man are 69. In all the countries of the developed world you've been quoting for ten years, it's longer. Don't deal with this demagogy, you who have at least a little logic. You should have at least a little logic, young man, you've studied mathematics. Take the continent and interpret it correctly. Don't use Dinkic's demagogue, it won't get you anywhere. I ask that the president or the chairman protect us from the qualifications of an ignorant, young and indoctrinated young gentleman, that he keep those observations to himself and that in no case tries to insult us. As you said, the European Bank has given you recognition. The Serbian people should give you recognition, and he will give it to you in the next election. In all the polls you can see today, you see the score. We respect that grade, and you respect the grade of shadow commanders who can't be seen. This law was written by strangers. We'll prove it to you with documents and papers. We'll tell you who wrote it. You didn't write that. So bring the interns here, students, to humiliate Parliament and that they, poor thing, can't say anything. We know who the authors are, and we know what you and you are doing to the Serbian people. That's the truth and that's what we're talking about. You can claim it's demagogy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19691	Thank you, Mr. Momchilov. I assume you said this first part in political passion. I made it clear that the syntagms "radical dictionary" and "radical manner" for me are not in one way offensive, but described for one party. I hope you don't think, when it's said in the passion of discussion, that it's offensive, you're talking about a tone that seemed negative. Did I understand you correctly? I don't know what the word "demagogy" means to you, if it's not offensive. Do you find that offensive, Mr. Momchilov? (Paja Momchilov, from the place: This is negative. The word "demagogy" means nothing to me. It means to me that I have to respect the Rules of Procedure and no one should insult any political party while I conduct the session. If you believe it was a negative tone, I accept it's possible it sounded that way. I can't react to that tone. For me, once again, the syntagma cannot be considered in any way offensive by saying that one party has its own dictionary. Is that right? In that sense, there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Verica Radeta, from the scene: Albianic's statement was offensive to the radicals. Here you go, Mr. Petrovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Petrovic has given up. Miss Jovanovic has a word. Mr. Markovic will speak after Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19692	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let me remind you first, Mr. Markovic, that you do not pretend to be naive more than you are. You are the owner of one publishing house and if you were at least five of the books you have read, you would have to see that the word "demagogy" and how offensive to anyone, even in the context in which your colleague Mr Albianic put it. You, for what reason, were absent from the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia when Mr Markovic chaired. He, of course, didn't want to remind me, which was advertised by my colleague Plassic, that I was giving facts from my private lives, because I didn't do it. I was talking about disrespect for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and millions of citizens by Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic. I was talking about the fact that you didn't warn him either. For me, there is no excuse for what you said earlier, that he is not in a position to attend the afternoon meeting because of other obligations and prevention. I was talking about the fact that, not his mother, but his mother, but she happens to be the mother of Mladjan Dinkic, but the public figure Mirosinka Dinkic is dealing with a problem that is on the agenda today. So, what's the name of the mother or what's the name of Mr. Lalovic's father or any individual, any other MP, is absolutely irrelevant. Of course it's degutant in any way to mention it. But when it comes to the mother of Minister Mladjan Dinkic, it is a public figure, employed by one institute, a woman who is a central guest in the morning diary, in the "Dnevnik 2" of Serbia's Radio-Television and who, not from his mother's position, but from your economic expert, says that reforming the pension system in our country will be allegedly better for Serbian citizens, for pensioners and for those who are awaiting retirement. Of course, I have connected these two stories and the fact that neither Mladjan Dinkic nor Mirosnka Dinkic, just like Slobodan Lalovic, are telling the truth because the citizens, and they already know it through the debate of this law, without the presence of Mladjan Dinkic, and through the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party, see that the arguments on our side or on their side, when we defend their rights, because we know what the economic situation is, because we know that the shift of the age limit and the way pensions are calculated under the law proposed by Minister Lalovic and Minister Dinkic, or the entire Republic government, is the most devastating thing that could have happened anyway to the poor citizens of Serbia today, primarily pensioners, unemployed and those who are waiting for retirement. Don't chase those two ideas and replace the thesis. Anyone who deals with public affairs, who steps forward to defend or praise the law that has been executed for pensioners in Serbia must be called and will be called from this pay phone. You, Mr. Markovic, do not, in the manner of those traitors of the Serb people and those who are targeted against today's greatest Serbian hero, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, in a break of testimony in The Hague tribunal, such as that of unfortunate Stojanovic, Trebišanin and others, to interpret what we wanted to say, as they interpret what Dr. Vojislav Seselj wanted to say. We speak loud and clear to the citizens. (President: Time. They understand us perfectly. If you don't understand what some MP is saying, when he objectes to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, he tells or tells his colleagues from other parliamentary groups, that's your problem. But don't, if you at least want to be unbiased, so obviously you perform when it comes to exposure and fellow Albianic and other MPs from G17 against the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19693	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. As you can see, I didn't give you a warning, even though you were talking about data, according to article 104 of your private life. I have no reason to assure you, all the thousands of books I've done I've read before. The word is made by MP Milan Markovic, a replica to the exhibition. Then I hope that we will return to the principled search, and the first People's MP Nikola Todorovic will have the word, and then the People's MP Istvan Takac. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19694	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I have been mentioned twice from the moment I gave a break until you arrived. First time by a colleague, and secondly, when you came. I thank you for understanding me to interrupt the course of the session. I think that was necessary at a given time. I am very sorry, but after the presentation of MP Dusan Petrovic, who expressed the view of the Democratic Party under the law passed here, there was a bit of a heated atmosphere. I thought it was necessary to give a five-minute break. After the break, MP Natasa Jovanovic rightly asked why there are no representatives of the government, i.e. ministers Lalovic and Dinkic. Since before the break, at the insistence of a number of MPs, I said I would ask ministers to appear and attend the session, I reiterated my belief that it is necessary for the governments of the Republic of Serbia to attend meetings when discussing such important issues and that this is necessary for the sake of preserving the dignity of the National Assembly. But I didn't respect Natasha Jovanovic's proposal to interrupt the assembly session until they arrived, because I am the vice president of the National Assembly and I think I would betray your trust that you, as president of the National Assembly, have given me to hold a session. However, part of the ruling coalition's MPs, unfortunately, and respected counterpart Albianic, seemed to me, to have come to me in one hostile way, without respecting the fact that I, as opposition vice president, am running a session of the Assembly. To be clear, he wasn't threatening, but it wasn't pleasant. I really think that at that moment, when Mr. Albianic went down this hall, the smartest thing would be to interrupt the assembly session until you arrive. That's the whole truth about why a session of the National Assembly was interrupted. I'll tell you one more thing, I am ready, first of all to help you, many times I've helped the ruling majority, leading the assembly session. That's what Mr. Albianic knows, at a time when a quorum was needed, how many times I had tolerance, waiting for the quorum to come, informing him there was no quorum when he couldn't see it. Now that I, as an opposition MP, have been running a session of the Assembly all day long, when there are no vice presidents from the ruling coalition, Mr Albianic and others here take the right to get me a lot of crap from the bench, to accuse me of abuse of the assembly session. That's why I'm reporting right now. I hope that Mr Lalovic will be present at the National Assembly session, because I have really much to tell him about the law he passed, about his relationship with the National Assembly and about everything that has been heard here at the expense of the Democratic Party by the ruling coalition. Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, you are nervous, more than usual, this is a difficult law, a difficult test for the ruling coalition. We understand that, but you cannot dispute our right to disagree with that law. Do not dispute our intentions to implement reforms in Serbia. But you're in power, we don't agree with the kind of reforms you're conducting. Dusan Petrovic explained why, I will repeat it in my presentation, the MP Gordana Comic will repeat. But that can't be the reason for the behavior you demonstrated while I chaired the National Assembly session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19695	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Please, Mr. Albianic, respect me, as well as all MPs who wish to continue the debate after the search, but you have the right to reply to the Rules of Procedure. That's not controversial. Here you go, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19696	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we cannot end this way – that Mr. Markovic may be right and publicly explain his vision which is not true. The point is that Mr. Markovic led the assembly, as chairman. The point is that his party colleague was behind the assembly pay phone. You know what it's like in a parliamentary debate and a fight. Psychologically good, after that attack by his party colleague, interrupts the session, so that the listener can get the impression of the opposition's supremacy, which is not true. The meeting of the Assembly is artificially interrupted because three or four speakers have called to come out in line or in the Rules of Procedure. It is only natural for a speaker to challenge such a situation that certain people report and deny certain things or convince others of the correctness of their views by their arguments. After that, another situation is artificially created after a break – a new break is given, and thus the impression that congregation work is not possible to continue. So it's very clear what this is about. I'm really sorry if you've learned such bad behavior from the past. We are all here together to raise the reputation and dignity of the institution, to conduct ourselves well, and that is what we do. So, you're wrong, it's not your last one, it wasn't like that. The second thing, if you have learned, Mr Markovic, is that you are not allowed, as vice-president of the Assembly, to behave additionally with those votes from Bodrum and the collapse of this assembly building, to act as vice-president of the Assembly, because the current assembly is working to build dignity for both this institution and all others in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19697	Mr. Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19698	Mr. Albianic, most honest, and you can look at the recording from the National Assembly session, we can look at it together at my office, my intention was not to (and you will not let me speak now, you see that you still haven't calmed down, that's what I'm trying to tell you) to interrupt the session of the Assembly. I begged you from above to calm down. Mr. Homan, you, Prophetic, Natasa Jovanovic, I don't remember anyone else, there were six or seven people who rushed to this center here. Mr. Prophetovich is now waving, yes, he was sitting. But it didn't know at all, I waved, I showed, people calm down, there's no problem. I took five minutes off. It's no drama break, etc. Yes, Mr Petrovic's speech was obviously difficult for you because he was full of arguments. But we need to exchange arguments here. It wasn't any scenario, it wasn't cut, you can see it in the video, you can see it from the stenogram. As for the second break, Mr. Albianic, I honestly think that if I hadn't given a break, first of all, your personal relationship, which is very correct and tolerable, would have been disrupted, and I think you would have violated the dignity of the National Assembly. I think I did the right thing by taking a break and I think it's the best way for the chairman to end a certain situation. Once again, don't expect more tolerance from me than you deserve in a situation where I chair a session of the National Assembly, and when the vice president of the ruling coalition is gone. Don't do this, because I have no intention of holding meetings of the National Assembly any further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19699	The People's Messenger Nikola Todorovic has the word, and the People's Messenger is Istvan Takac. I pray that the pay phone will in no way be called upon to check the footage of what happened 10 minutes ago, and at the same time the Vice-President of the National Assembly, I thank everyone who helps in the work, there is no division: the ruling, non-government, all vice-presidents receive compensation of several thousand dinars so that they can help the chairman of the Assembly for the needs of the presidency, so that all MPs can discuss the issue on the agenda. I thank everyone for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19700	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the other day I read in the paper -- so much noise, so much squabble in just three and a half years. The esteemed journalist alluded to the years of life of 68 and 65. There's a lot of jokes, but there's also cruel truths. We're solving a very important social problem. In his presentation, the minister tried to give us a short period of time... And I have so little time at my disposal to get into a more serious story about reforming that pension system, even though I've been in that story since the beginning of my working life, which is already close to getting my retirement conditions. I can tell you that the first sentence of the minister scared me, when he announced: one pensioner - one employee. I was afraid that it would look like that story when two friends met and this first ugly one said, "I hear you've become a hobo, you're cheating on a woman, and that's my high school colleague, a good mom, you're a lot of years old, your kids go to school, and you're still wandering around, you're hooking up with neighbors and college co-workers, it's not okay, and this one suits him – what to do, to get kids out of school. The minister later explained the problem. There is little in this text of the law what everything in reform should be done, the state and this system. We have fallen into one trap to talk only about political views and problems, and a little bit about the text of the bill, and I would say a few things to the minister, his assistants, and also to the MPs, who follow the work of this assembly and the presentation of MPs, to pay attention, because I think details are important. Because it's about gaining and achieving the rights of people who have spent a lifetime, whether 20, 30 or all 40 years of internships, I see that 45 is proposed, and how much they enjoy that pension, although they say the best pension that is used for a long time. Unfortunately for us, a lot of insurance people died and didn't get a pension because of all the problems. I'll start with your suggestions. In Article 3, you are talking about the amendment of Article 15 of the Law where you have carefully explained the article with some additional text, an explanation. I don't know who wrote this to you, I don't insist on changing it, but if you carefully look at the text of the law – an insurance who is not necessarily insured may enter mandatory insurance if he submits an application for insurance and pays that amount or ceases insurance when he submits a check-out. Anything else he writes is much more raving, worse, and I don't know why it's such a formulation, who writes it. I can see that I'm a member of the system doesn't get a lot in the system reform, and I don't know why there was a need for it to change. I don't know why you explained the details in this section, what the procedure is, because in all the other members of the law, it is quite well explained the procedure of applying for pension and disability insurance rights. In Article 4, you propose to delete the first point of the existing Article 19. That's where you made one problem that I wanted to distract you with. By erasing that point, you lose the concept of retirement. What does it mean to you later in Chapter 7 of the existing law and in Article 60 of this Law, I particularly draw attention to mothers because they did not pay attention to that provision – a mother who gives birth to a third child is entitled to two years under the insurance training period. If you delete the 1st point of this law after 2009, it will mean nothing to them, as well as to the combatants of the war who had a special internship. In Articles 42 to 52, the insurance hold is so well explained, and in Chapter 7 of Article 44 of that pension internship. Who benefits from exercising his right in accordance with a provision, as a mother who gives birth to a third child, when she cannot accomplish anything later? Perhaps it could be fixed if you were more careful, that, for example, in the same article at point 2. instead of the insurance internship you wrote – retirement internship. Then everything would be fine, and maybe that's how it could be solved. Or, give up erasing the 1st point and reshape the whole member in another way, where that concept of retirement must not be lost. I don't know why you added a point – 45 years. What category do you mean? It is difficult today throughout the world, especially in Serbia, for someone to reach 40 years of insurance. We all have a chance to spend most of our lives waiting and looking for a job, than we're gonna have a chance to do some work. Anyway, we're all going to get into a retirement situation because we've acquired some years of life with as many internships as we've got, get conditions for a pension, the way it's being calculated. I don't know what category you meant when you said 45. Why isn't it 42, 43, 44, and 45? In the current text of the law, there is one provision that those who have retired can be employed. It was formerly forbidden that a pensioner could not be employed, so it was changed, and now if he who's retired for another year, finds a good gig, a good salary, he can ask for that pension to be recalculated on condition that he worked for at least a year and that's correct. I don't know if such a provision exists in any country in Europe. You as Minister and we as MPs, the whole people would be much more fortunate to have other ministries working for us, for our business, for agriculture, for capital investment to start, for the largest number of people to get a job and then for less pressure to be on the pension fund, for less social giving, and we wouldn't have any problems that we have today, because today we're asked to survive in this Serbia. If there's one of the pensioners who's guilty of this situation, not to be very ironic, they're those pensioners who've constantly been working on important government jobs and they've won a condition for retirement, they're pensioners today, but they're still at important state functions and they're deciding, and they're the directors of public enterprises, board presidents, funds. Then what do you think and what does it mean to a guy who's been retired for 10 or 15 years, and a son or grandson who's already grown up serving the army, can't get a job, finish school and college and ask Grandpa's allowance to get into town? When we create conditions that this young generation works, and we create conditions that those who have acquired retirement conditions with years of life still work. I'm not saying that this should be done as the communists did – when pension conditions are obtained by force of the law, everyone retires, and then the obligation to admit young and educated people, trainees to the number of employees, but it's a little bit of work in this country, and whenever it comes to pensioners, then children, young people don't know who's talking about them. I'd like to draw your attention, not to read any further, to those people who, after retirement, those who do these government jobs, receive work compensation, not pay. They are not in a working relationship, such as on some committees, in some agencies. They're not getting paid, but they're getting a big fee. Minister Dinkic dealt with it well: tax and contribution to everything that is paid and as a fee, and as a profit, and a contracted fee and temporary business. He taxed it all, and that's fine. When applying to M-4 for pension-involvement insurance, wanting to improve it, because it's a good gig, a big salary for all those who work on such big state affairs, they're in the best interest, if they're in the business, to have the maximum pension. Then I don't know what it means to them, and it means profit, they're in shape, they have to respect their knowledge and experience, it's useful, but these young people have to do something. There are even cases that those who have lost their ability to work, which is incompatible. Then it's a question of whether the art was done. I think there are cases like this, even in this Anti-Corruption Council. That should be eliminated. The next thing I'd draw your attention to you and what bothers me, in Article 33 of your proposal, you're talking about an amendment to Article 112 of Article 1, you're talking about when you get a pension right, an insurance company that has stopped working based on disability. Here, it is proposed to replace the words "received disability solution" with the words "delivering a strong solution to the established disability of the employer". Perhaps the author of this text was burdened with what is written in Article 178, paragraph 1) of the Labour Act, where the employee stops working independently of his will and will of the employer. I understand that, but the pension is personal. When you look at Article 94 of the existing law, where the procedure for the initiation of the pension-qualification procedure is regulated, to remind you, that I do not read, when a doctor and medical committee approves the exit of the disability commission and the disability commission in the skill-making process determines the loss of working ability, it is a very long period. I cannot ignore certain provisions of the Labour Act, the Health Insurance Act and the Pension-Invalid Insurance Act, because they are conditioned, linked to me as well. How long will it take for the insurance company to come to the commission to assess his work skills and how long after that, when a loss of his ability is determined, to exercise his right to retire. This can again be one of those topics of reform of the pension system, in terms of the reorganisation of services, directorates, branches, better personnel equipment, better material equipment, staff solutions for those who do not work well, better organisation and knowledge of regulations. I think it is more correct that all those who lose their job ability do not run from the moment of delivery of the rightful solution to the employer, but from the moment of the lecture request to go out on a disabled commission. Why would I think that? I mentioned it was a long time. If the worker is on sick leave for up to 30 days, the employer pays and over 30 days pays for the Health Insurance Office. If it's a long-term illness, and for the longest year, there's an obligation for that insurance company to be sent to the disability assessment, the ability. From the moment of surrender, two months he's been paying for the insurance company's sick leave, then he's going to the PIO fund's burden. Why would I bring that up? Because the unsettled data are in the parent records, because the overcrowding of the business is all that I mentioned earlier, in terms of urgency, technical equipment and the number of perpetrators in certain branches, relative to the number of applications submitted. How long you wait for art in the first-degree procedure, even though it's a rule on the selection of an artist, the manner of art and procedure, these deadlines are short... It's arranged by the decisions and acts of the fund, but it's not respected. He didn't become incompetent for work, became disabled in the first category of the moment the doctor saw him, so he became earlier, which is evidenced by medical records. If he was in charge of work... Now I return you to terms, and here many do not distinguish the concepts of profit, profit fees, wages for work for prevention, so the texts that were previously in the regulations (I am not talking about some old times, I am not talking about political terms) were clearer in terms of the accuracy of what is profit and wages for work. It is said in some provision: if pension and disability insurance rights are exercised for persons employed, then payment is due from the first day after the end of the payoff. This unfortunate man who spent two months on sick leave, after two months entitled to retirement, found a loss of his job ability, he had no income, he had a profit compensation, all the time on the trust's burden. It's not hard for a fund to recalculate from the moment of retirement and unlike what was paid as a fee, to pay full pensions. It would be quite correct. The employer here is not interested. Why would he fire someone until they finally got a solution to their established disability? He's being paid by the state. The fund pays a relatively small compensation for the sick, instead of the full price of work, or pension, because pensions are higher than the sick. In our practice now, to our misfortune, at least in mining, pension is even bigger than profit. That's why I'm saying that in relationships between the two sides, one side that does the shop and the other that suffers the shop, here are those employees who suffer the shop and they are damaged, not the fund, not the state, not the company. Therefore, it is correct for them to establish this as the day from which the pension is paid. There are a few things I'd really like to draw your attention to. Article 34 states: "The beneficiary of the family pension that acquires the property of the insurance company is suspended from the payment of the family pension". Why? If you allow a pensioner to work and earn, contributions under the law are paid, as Dinkic says, why do you not allow this to the family pensioner? Often with us, if I'm not mistaken, women live longer and often women are users of family retirement. If she chooses her husband's pension as something more favourable, but still not enough to survive, to feed herself and other non-working family members, she's forced to do some extra work, provided she hasn't lost her job, she's not going into disability pension, she's going to be family. Why forbid him to do another job? I think it's an understanding from an earlier system of thinking, a philosophy about the right to retire, so if you get a job, then retirement is lifted. I think that needs to be fixed. In Article 58. You are proposing that Article 225 of Section 2 be deleted. I understand, Minister, it's a good thing you did. It's that promise to remove the uncertainty created by this law for those who have acquired the right to retire. I don't think there's been enough thinking about the problem. Please pay attention only to this detail in the text, that I do not read the entire text of the law, and this is about disabled people working with the remaining work capacity, the earlier third category of disability, which have been left without a job in the restructuring process – until the entry into force of this law have the right to half their pension after spending time on the labour market, etc., and for a maximum of five years. You've abolished it for five years, which is perfectly fine, that uncertainty you've removed, that legal uncertainty. I ask you now - what about the large number of workers with the same status who did not believe Mrs. Matkovic and did not accept signing that statement and going to the labour market later on to the PIO fund, so they stayed in a working relationship? Today we have the same problem in restructureing large systems, and you are in this part very active. There are over 900 RTBs, they didn't believe at the time, and they were afraid of legal uncertainty, even though I convinced them as a business manager, they're important questions, and I have to, I'm sorry, to convince them that it's more favourable for them. Then this law comes and brings her to legal certainty, and that's totally fine. What about these, what to suggest now, whether to accept, because the employer can't stay, given the remaining working ability, significantly lower working capacity, etc. In that sense, I think that this whole member should be re-formed and that the category of workers should be protected, because in that law you are the same, and I think that's Article 101. The labour law, promised that the employer must, has an obligation; and what when they become excess and do not protect them, their status will not be resolved. I'm done. Here you promised in Article 78, and I think it's just a promise and I don't see how you're going to solve it and how it will fit when the text of this law is cleared, says – a special law will regulate the conditions and way of gaining rights based on partial disability. Please, Minister, who invented this concept of partial disability? What's she supposed to mean? Is that what she's got left? This can be said in a jargon, but the law must specify each concept – the remaining work capacity, the reduced, the loss of work ability, must be specified. Look, I think that old law on the basics of PIO in that sense was very precise and will help you. It's not to praise a certain author, but I think it's much more precise and more specific and it can improve the text of the law. I've got a little time to say everything I thought I'd say, but I'll get involved later, if I'm in a position to, according to the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19701	Thank you. The People's Messenger Istvan Takac has the word, and let the People's Messenger Meso Omerovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19702	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. President, today we have a set of laws on the regulation of pension relations on the agenda. The most important law is the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on PIO, a law on voluntary pension funds and pension plans, a proposal for payment for PIO for individual categories of insurance companies, etc. Connecting work experience, and the fourth is a proposal for a law on the public debt of the Republic of Serbia for PIO employees, i.e. farmers. The matter that we have today on the agenda of the National Assembly is very sensitive because it regulates the material position of citizens who have completed their working life under certain legal conditions, and on the other hand it represents a moral obligation for all who are able to contribute to the normal regulation of this situation. G17 plus supports changes that allow the pension system to function regularly. On this occasion, in reforming the pension system, the laws governing the conditions and way of achieving the right and payment of pensions must bear in mind that current pensioners, as well as future, have decent pensions that can be supported for the rest of their lives. When considering and deciding on the reform of the PIO system, I consider it necessary to realise the general development of the domestic economy. The 2005 budget of the Republic of Serbia in the medium-term macroeconomic framework, on page 115, under the heading - The main priorities of economic policy, sets out the government's task of modernising economic legislation, continuing economic liberalisation in order to expand the private initiative, creating conditions for increasing employment on the basis of a national employment strategy. Furthermore, the gross social product grows at least five percent per year on average, so that it continues to take measures to secure a larger volume of investment, a favourable economic structure with concrete products and service programmes and to increase investment in research work, to form new businesses. In order to get to know our public, I will say that this problem has been solved, for example, in neighbouring countries around us, and that has already been said in today's discussion, however, only some figures of the working century. For example, in Croatia, the 2002 PIO law in the first pillar of the public pension system determines more than five years from earlier, which was 65 years ago, which was just a few words. Invalidity is more restrictive than the previous; instead of disability commissions, authorised experts and mandatory audits of each finding and opinion were introduced, as a colleague had just said. The accounting period from which the salaries for certain pensions are taken has been extended. The rights to a retirement allowance have been abolished. A mandatory retirement insurance system for age, based on invalid capitalised savings, etc. was introduced. The second pillar. The system of voluntary retirement insurance is so called. The third pillar, well, as you can see, we're proposing the same thing in our law. In Slovenia, the 2002 law introduces rules, stimulates later retirement, increases completed years of life for retirement, which is 63 years or 61 years for women. The period for establishing a pension base has increased compared to the previous period, four out of 10 to 18 years. It's starting to restore disability to active life. A state pension was introduced, which was gradually approved by the citizens of Slovenia over 65 years of age who had no other income or property, such as Mrs Vesna Obradovic from our parliamentary group G17 plus just now proposed, namely, the proposal applies to 70 years. As far as indexation is concerned, the principle that pensions cannot grow faster than wages or slower than the cost of living has been established. The previous government for additional financing of the pension system had various additional sources, such as alcohol tax, if we remember. A serious and lasting approach to the financing solution can only be found in solutions that are permanent. When we look at the structure of the pensioners, we need to pay particular attention to the users who spent their working hours processing the country, farmers. With regard to the Law on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia to assume the obligation of the Republic Fund for PIO farmers incurred in connection with outstanding pensions and cash debts, the Republic of Serbia is taking over the debt of the Republic of the PIO Agricultural Fund of 20 billion dinars, which refers to 20.5 months of outstanding incomes, as we heard in the exposé of Mr. Minister. So that debt comes back within five years. I believe that this kind of debt regulation guarantees that the same will happen, and users regularly receive their earned pensions. In any event, in the coming period, and the sooner, the state, or this Parliament, has to lay down rules for the proper functioning of the capital market, in order to make it so, so-called. The second pillar of funding could be revived as soon as possible so that the pensioners of their old days could live calmly and without the fear of providing basic conditions for life. G17 plus supports the proposed legislative projects and will vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19703	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Meho Omerovic, and let MP Dusan Prorokovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19704	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for us in the Social Democratic Party, this set of laws on the agenda today has special importance for a very simple reason: the Social Democratic Party and by its own name, and more in its practical and political functioning and how it takes care of the most vulnerable layers of our population. You'll all agree with me that pensioners, unfortunately, fall into this category. Serbia's public, as in the case of the oil industry of Serbia, when more than 15,000 employees in the largest oil industry system were interested in the topic... 1,300,000 pensioners are also interested in what we are discussing today in the Serbian Parliament. Unfortunately, this interest was not shared by the representatives of the largest part of the ruling coalition and, more interestingly, the ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who were here today to defend this law. I think that says enough about the relationship between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and this key and very important issue. We heard the explanation of the President of Predrag Markovic's Assembly that the ministers were in talks on collective talks on strikes in education, and then we heard that there was also a cabinet meeting, and in fact we have evidence, at least when it comes to the Minister Dinkic, the agencies report that he held a press conference and said, quote: "He has assessed that the judiciary is not his portfolio because of the public interest in the case of Mirjana Markovic and the Ministry of Justice should be involved in solving the problem"; then, he presented a report by the Ministry of Defence of State and announced that he would announce the names of all those involved in the procurement of military equipment. So, Minister Dinkic, as we can see, is doing everything just not what he was supposed to do here in the Serbian Parliament today to explain, and these are the laws that are on the agenda. The most important system laws that are in order today, according to government officials... They're right, they're important system laws. However, the explanation we heard from Mr Dinkic, and he also talked about loans for young people, he talked about scholarships and awards for the junior team, so he talked about everything, he just didn't talk about what he was being invited here for today. At least there was room for discussion and discussion on the topic of literary composition – what is the most beautiful in Serbia today and all the beauty of the life of pensioners in Serbia. We heard, and someone could draw the wrong conclusion, listening to Minister Dinkic and some of the ruling coalition's MPs, that today's best interest in Serbia is being a pensioner. Both ministers have explicitly looked back on the problem of pensions, pensioners, pension systems. It is precisely because of pensions and the state and position of pensioners today in Serbia, because of them and the truth, because of television transmission and citizens of Serbia, that let me also say a few facts about the situation. Since 1992, all the changes that took place in the pension system have actually been a restriction on pensioners' rights. Here are a few examples: average pension, for example. In December 2003, there was supposed to be 11,943 dinars, and there was 8,481 dinars, in December 2004, there was supposed to be an average pension of 14,454 dinars, and there were 10,086 dinars, in December of this year there were going to be 17,459 dinars, and God be 12,000 dinars. So the nominal growth was about 4.7 percent, and the inflation of 13.5% announced, and unfortunately, it looks like it's going to exceed the figure of 17%. This means that pensions are reduced realistically by over 10%. From year to year, the pension budget, and so did my predecessors during the afternoon and afternoon debates, became increasingly scrawny and in some ways diminished. In Serbia 1,063,000 pensioners receive a pension of less than 15,000, then, 98,000 receive a pension of about 4,200 dinars. So 2/3 of pensioners, while fellow Smiljanic from the SPS draws conclusions using the Vojvodina Pension Fund data, receives a minimum pension of 11.200 dinars. So, in this picture and in this state, we in the Social Democratic Party are not for this kind of change in the pension system, where the system will survive, and the pensioners will disappear. We know that it is also necessary to comply with all the highest European standards, but today we have heard from a lot of MPs that, for example, Slovenia and the Czech Republic should coordinate this by 2020 or 2021. Who's in Serbia in a hurry? Is Serbia ready, is our pension system ready for one of these kinds of reforms? We in the Social Democratic Party think it is not, for the simple reason that the pension system of the Serbian state has been robbed in the last two decades. He's chirupan in every way possible. He served as a well in which the former government, and I think the present one, always had the opportunity to drag his hand and pour it from one point to another, so that it could be said. The reform of the pension system, according to us from the SDP, needs to be done in a package with other economic measures, in order to put pressure on the greatest evil, which is to curb inflation. You know, for Serbian citizens, and especially pensioners, the most important thing is that inflation does not exceed 10%. All this talk of harmonising and approaching the highest modern and European standards for ordinary pensioners does not mean anything if inflation goes this way, because it, unfortunately, affects all spheres of economic life. I read the official data that we are the only country in Europe that has double-digit inflation. Why, I remind you, once again, does the burden of inflation shift to the back of the poorest citizens? They will again, and pensioners in particular, be the biggest victims of the transition. I fear this law sends a message to Serbian citizens that inflation will increase. Will we enter the European Union with reduced pensions, while these same pensioners, like other Serbian citizens, rob? Yes, they rob their money and money from Serbian citizens. We remember the damages of 42m euros established in the Knjaz Milos affair, and here, as Mr Dinkic says, in the last affair related to the sale of military equipment, the damage per country is over 80m euros. If that money could have paid off part of the pensioner's debt, I would have asked Minister Dinkic, who unfortunately isn't here. At the very end, if the IMF has the last word in everything, how often we are convinced by the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, then we do not need the Social and Economic Council, then we do not need the government or the Assembly. Simply, union representatives, employers can go directly to negotiate, negotiate with the IMF, not to do so through institutions, which obviously do not do their job well. And when he does not know how to answer any questions concerning the standards and lives of citizens, the government of the Republic of Serbia gives answers and hides behind the IMF always. For us in the Social Democratic Party, such a bill is not acceptable and therefore we will vote against it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19705	I thank Mr. Omerovic. I would ask the MPs to take care of the time allowed for exposure. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Slobodan Lalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19706	Dear Members of the People, I would like to comment on a few things that have been present here, to clarify some things. I would like to apologize first for not being since the beginning of this afternoon's session, but I did leave the cabinet session for the start of talks with two education unions on the cost of work for 2006. Negotiations started today, and I left those negotiations at a certain time to come here, that's just it. As far as what we're talking about here is concerned, there's a special story about the age line and its movement. I would like to point out one thing – namely, still, as you know, the law leaves a solution to which a woman with 35 years of insurance training retires, is a condition of 35 years of insurance and 53 years of life, and a man with 40 years of insurance training, and again 58 years of life is the minimum to retire. Who are these solutions for, exactly? Basically, for high school kids, for high school girls who start working when they're 18 or 19. So, people who start when they're 18 or 19, practically women at 54 and men at 59 meet the conditions to retire. First of all, to understand that this means it, because of the citizens of Serbia. This 65-year limit of life is essentially intended for people with college, who usually start working around 25 or 26 years of their lives when they finish their studies. So it's essentially a logical solution, in my opinion. Otherwise, in practice, we've had a problem before, regardless of this story, that a man who studies and graduates from college can never retire, because he starts working when he starts, adds 40 years, and the age limit has always been low. So this part of the objection in that sense, I don't think it stands, when it comes to age, it's logical in my opinion. The second thing that is related to this age line – as you can see, is that we are going with a gradual increase in that age line, to prepare the citizens and the employees, so that what happened in 2002 and 2003, respectively, when by the sudden rise of three years, one part of the people, especially the workers, who accepted in restructuring in 2001 to go to the bureau and wait two years and then to retire, suddenly 2003, and in 2004, respectively, stayed in the sky or on the ground. So this is the moment now. This is a matter of graduality and preparation. Another thing is important here for workers in Serbia. According to our proposal, two years later for employees who lose their jobs in the restructuring process will not be worth moving the age line. It's a combination of certain measures. I stress this, first and foremost, logically for whom is the border and that a woman at 35 years of employment, and a man at 40 is retired, and the second condition is 53 years of life. It's just logic. With this solution, we've only allowed people with colleges to come to a full pension. It's a very simple thing. As for that other thing, I'd give it as information, I don't think it's the subject of any conversation, not on my part any specific comments. According to the information we have, this is the 2004 data, when it comes to men, they used retirement because it was one of the topics of discussion here, on average for 15 years, and women have used their pension for 16 years on average. So if we move on, you can perform math operations on your own. That's what was really going on. In essence, men and women, according to the PIO Fund, lived for 74 years, although statistics say that women live on average for 75 years and men for 70 years, and these are pensioners. When it comes to pensioners, both men and women, live 74 years on average. I just told you this as information, so you'd know what this is all about. When it comes to what 45 years of insurance training, as one question being asked, I would say because, according to the current Pension-Invalid Insurance Act, up to 45 years of insurance training is the period when a man is entitled to a certain pension. Basically, if he's been working for over 45 years, as far as retirement is concerned, it doesn't have any effect anymore. According to the law, up to 45 years of insurance work, my pension increases only if I work up to 45 years. That's the first, logical and basic reason. The second reason is that those people who are working on a Benchmark internship were involved. As for what's mentioned about the loss of work ability, the partial working ability, it's also mentioned this morning and now in the afternoon, I'd give that information. In 2003, by passing the law at the time, the right to partial work capacity, i.e. the disability pension of the third category, disappeared in all other categories. What exactly is that idea now? The idea is that in the Law on Employment and Rehabilitation of Disabilities, which is being prepared within my ministry – and I would remind myself that several times when I mentioned that something is being prepared at the Ministry of Labour, all that has been prepared there and has arrived, so will the law on employment and rehabilitation of disabled people – regulates this issue that we now call partial workability. That's the way we're gonna solve this one hole. What's the problem? After 2003, you can either be completely healthy or completely ill, i.e. you have a complete job loss and retire. Since life does not know such things, we will in law, which will be in front of this assembly hopefully by the end of the year, and that will be the law on employment and rehabilitation, solve the systemic issue mentioned here. This is where my colleague pointed out some better solutions in the law. Of course, it may be the subject of some discussion and discussions in the next period, as regards improvements in text, in any case. I'd like to point out a few more elements, a few more things that we all need to consider, regardless of which political party we're dealing with. We're talking about how many pensioners there are up to 15,000 dinar pensions, how much to this or that amount. All the data is correct. Serbia's reality at the moment is that the average profit is 16 and slightly more than thousands of dinars net. Until the average profit, as always, is mathematical legality, 60% of employees. So 60% of employees receive up to 16,000 and slightly more dinar net. That's a huge number of people. A huge number of pensioners, as has already been said, are receiving a pension of up to 15,000 dinars. The lowest pension, due to be around 6,300 dinars as of 1 January 2006, corresponds with the real situation in Serbia that the minimum profit, as agreed with trade unions for the second half of this year, is 7.030 dinars. So the minimum profit is 7.030 dinars, and the minimum pension is 6,300 dinars. These are the realities of Serbia. That's the order of size we're talking about here. When it comes to the pension system, we have a huge number of problems found that no one can solve with a pen move right now. For example, we have a third of the disabled pensioners, out of the total number of pensioners. No country, and I don't need to look at any data, has one third of the disabled pensioners out of the total number of pensioners. What happened? We all lived here. How did people go on disability pension? I'd like to remind you that the previous government is going to review disability pensions, and it's going into this activity with the right. At one point, the previous government came into a situation that before the appearance said it was a disaster, the entire cities would be under question. We can't do this later, after five, ten, or fifteen years to do a disability pension review. It's a burden on things like that, that's what I mean. Something that made it even harder for the Fund to function and the pension system at all is that. It's something Serbian citizens should also know. There is one tendency to show some solidarity to it. The bottom line of this story today is that we define a pension system that is sustainable and that will not put into question long-term pension payments. That's what I was talking about this morning in my opening statement. What's the alternative when you talk about it? There's an alternative not to change anything, with the very clear consequences it's going to have someday. That's what I was talking about this morning. Realistically, this government could have paid off these pensions, no change, for a while. The government could wait until the end of the term, whenever it was the end of the term of office, and leave it to some next government to deal with these problems. I don't think that approach is good. I was talking about it this morning, and I think you all know that the pension system went into crisis in the mid-'80s. So for twenty years, the state of Serbia has been avoiding solving the problem, avoiding dealing with the problem. It was said here during the day that some laws had been better before, so there were more rights, and since 1992 there have been restrictions. It actually shows what happened. Not changing the system, not reforming it, it went to abolishing or reducing individual rights. This is because all these governments have seen since 1992 that the way it was can't survive. Theoretically, it could have continued with a further reduction of rights. Is that how you do it forever? The obvious unsustainability of the pension fund, I repeat that it is completely obvious, should be overcome by a reform that includes not only changes in the pension law as a reform of the first pillar, but also the introduction of a third pillar – voluntary pension funds and the introduction of a second pillar – mandatory additional insurance, when two conditions are met. One condition is that Serbia significantly reduces the first pillar deficit, the first fund, otherwise it doesn't make much sense. Another condition is for Serbia to function in a valid way in the value of the paper market, to justify itself. I agree, maybe that's the first condition a colleague says. So that takes a time period. This is the overall reform of the pension system, which, through the perspective of this country and future generations, should give a fully stable pension system that will function without the situation we have had in the last 20 years. I suppose it's such an approach that we don't have a situation that we've had in our 20s, uncertainty, debt and everything else towards the pensioners, that we should once put an end to it. The overall reform of the pension system, I stressed, makes sense, has a function if we achieve the central goal we actually have, I believe this government and every future government in Serbia, which is employment growth. In fact, it is a key thing that we must do, to increase employment in Serbia. We cannot increase employment in Serbia unless investments grow in Serbia. Investment growth in Serbia cannot occur unless we send a clear message that this society is ready to reduce public spending in favour of investment. It's an equation that's so obvious that I don't know where it comes from, but not from logic, from somewhere else. So that's the equation we want to realize. We predicted, these are very specific things, it should be followed by citizens, that in the next five years there should be so much and so much growth in direct investment in Serbia, if we want unemployment to fall so much. With this claim we are going to the story, then it is normal for citizens and you MPs to ask the government – if that is so, and that is, it is indisputable, what are you governmental people doing to create conditions for such growth of direct investment in the Serbian economy? Actually, it's a question of all the questions. I think, I'm convinced, and it's legitimate that someone else thinks that one part of the answer to that question is pension reform. I remind you, it's not all, it's part of the story. You have a reform of the state administration. Yesterday, laws were passed on that matter. Then, public service reform. There are a number of things to be done and there are things that are most difficult to say and most avoided, I mentioned this morning, in 2006 and 2007, in those two years, a very painful period ends in the history of Serbian economy and society; the restructuring of the Serbian economy ends in those two years. This is the third condition for serious direct investment growth in Serbia. It's very simple. It's not a matter of political attitude. It is simply a matter of certain conditions that you must meet in order for investments to grow in Serbia. Look at the countries around: Romania, Bulgaria and others. We can watch what they're doing. Every big investor is asking about that country, what about that country, what's the situation in it. He can choose, he has capital, and we have a need. In fact, that's what this is about -- trying to create conditions so that we can meet our needs, not the needs of the IMF, of the World Bank, of the father god, of the Washington administration, or I don't know who. However, our need is not the US to create conditions for them to invest. They have the highest level of investment, in America, not with us. So it is our need to create conditions for growth of direct investment in the Serbian economy. Citizens of Serbia and all MPs in this assembly of parliament, in the next term, in that one, should in fact ask one single question that sublimes the work of a government this year – how much did the growth of investments in the Serbian economy occur this year? The answer to that question answers the question of how the government works, this one, any other. That's actually the answer to all the questions we're asking here today. Of course, I totally understand that there is an opinion here that what we're doing is wrong, that the law is not good. That's completely legitimate. What I think we need is to try to stay in the field of arguments and when we're criticizing something that we try to make a proposal to actually do it better in perspective. So that's the only thing that makes sense, which I think is normal. In spite of all this, I expect, I have mentioned this and I say in advance, that the adoption of this law does not mean the end of the pension reform. The pension system in Serbia, as I said, will change for at least the next ten years, until it is put to the right to function. Since his colleague has raised the issue of technical nature, with the right to wait for a solution, when the solution is valid, when it is obtained, when it is given, which I did not mention, means, since October of this year, in a month, the realisation of one loan we received from the World Bank will begin, which will network Serbia as a whole, in this sense that in Belgrade we will have at all times the data whether or not the contributions are paid, how much is paid. It's that part of the reform that's not mentioned, technically, to make the services work more efficiently. It is mentioned that the lowest pension is now 4,200 dinars. That's right. Since January, there should be 6,300 dinars, according to this bill. Actually, it's one of the important things when we talk about the social function of this same law. Also, to mention, which is not mentioned in this principle debate, we are likely to discuss this more through amendments, this is a question of a whole web solution where we give more favourable solutions when it comes to the benefits of working time, when it comes to using these rights of those categories, such as miners and others who have 12 or 18 months, and others have 12 - 16 etc. So, in the bill of law you have more favourable solutions than those that have been so far, but with one note: as far as using these more favourable rights, what we intend to do is to question who these rights are now benefiting from, because, according to our initial information, there are a large number of people who, as we have always done it lightly when it comes to giving rights, in terms of -- well, it doesn't matter, including him, actually don't have the right to this benefited internship, and they use it. Those who have no right, who use it, make it difficult and make it impossible for those who really have the right to have the right and that you cannot protect them properly. So, I point out to the MPs in this section of the law, which I think is very important, as far as the benified job experience is concerned and the improvements we're giving here. Of course, with one very clear idea that I hope that this well-favoured internship, these more favourable solutions in the perspective will lose their purpose, because in Serbia there will be a significant improvement in the working conditions and modernisation of technology. In fact, the benefits of an internship are necessarily evil. He's talking about how you don't have good working conditions, and then you protect people supposedly by doing shorter work and getting more internships. Of course, that's not the answer to the problem. The solution to the problem is, and this is also part of, that with the growth of investments, the technology in Serbia is being restored to businesses, to create working conditions, so that we can talk here in the Assembly – there is no longer a need for a benefited internship here, because the conditions are now good. In fact, it's a goal that we all have to pursue, but in the meantime let's help people, and that's our idea when it comes to improving the retirement of people who are on a well-established internship. I think I've covered most of what's here, in a way, said. Of course, I will continue to follow the debate and, for what I consider necessary, react to certain exposures.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19707	According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19708	Mr. Markovic, I really don't know why you're making out. When the MP calls, he picks up the Rules of Procedure and says, "By the Rules of Procedure, you say, "Here you are, advertise a member of the Rules of Procedure, not to run at me like I don't know what to do here." Minister Lalovic is also a member of parliament at the same time. Mr. Lalovic, you're committing a classic abuse of Article 93. The Rules of Procedure are mine to notice, as well as other colleagues, from the so-called. The ruling structures react the same way I do. I have to inform you that this is the time you've been using, because that's not before the end, we've been working for over 1800 hours. If, in the manner of all ministers so far, you've wanted to time and speak until 6:00 p.m., then you're going to have to rephrase it around 19.40 hours, until 2:00 p.m. to speak. You see, we've just started a debate, as Article 93 says. Rules of Procedure, by application and if possible by that member. People's MPs, and those who are against the law, such as the MPs of the SRS, and MPs from the ruling structures have just begun to speak, but you, in the absence of calmness or arguments to convince us, at least as the largest parliamentary group, that the law is good for you, and he is not, you can't stand but after the first speaker of the opposition, MP Nikola Todorovic, reacted, although using the possibility given to you by article 93, but strangling us half an hour. If after each opposition MP or one who speaks contrary to what you claim to be speaking for half an hour, I suggest Predrag Markovic, who decided to extend the time for debate, that you and he remain alone at 20.00 hours. He's going to sit down, get up, listen to you, you're going to talk about the law and nice to you, nice to him, except the citizens won't listen to it. You can now, whenever any MP from the opposition says to answer and speak with counterarguments, but, Mr. Lalovic, while you were in the political party, you should have fought there a little more for the word, to talk at party meetings, and here let us make our arguments, to talk about why we're against or why we're against the law. You see, Mr. Prophetovic is impatient, you've played his patience as an MP of the ruling structure, now he's coming out the door. Therefore, cut a short story and let us state why we are against the law or those who support you for why they are for, and from 20.00 to 22:00 you and Markovic, so apologize nicely and say more about what you did not write in the explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19709	To give an explanation that I owe. The 93th term you called on, the second position says: "The Prime Minister and the members of the government get the word when they ask for it, and there is no restriction on the duration of the exposure. "This was the leadership of the chairman when he gave his word. Please don't take the data out of private life. And finally, the minister's obligation to attend stems from the need to answer questions. Replica, MP Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19710	Mr. Minister, one of the topics you've opened is the limit when, if this law comes into force, it will be a time in everyone's life when he retires, and that's 65 years. Here you explained that it was people who finished high school and who by nature things because of the length of schooling can't start working 25 years ago, so that's...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19711	Excuse me, did you recognize yourself in the exposure part when I wasn't here?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19712	That's right, you weren't there. Mr. Secretary has spoken for longer, but of course it's not a subject. Mr. Minister, as Minister of Labour, you must know that there are millions of unemployed people in Serbia today. Now, I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, when will these graduates of elementary school or not finish school and finish high school, not to bother with the case of people who have finished higher school, start working and when will they retire? Millions of people today are unemployed in Serbia and in this structure there are many, over 90%, of those who have not graduated from college. People who have completed primary school or have failed to finish eight classes can do heavy physical work or other unskilled labour jobs. If the average life span in Serbia is 69 years, I've asked here if it's fair and whether it's humane that these people retire at the age of 65. There's another thesis you've explicitly shown here in these 20 minutes, which is that unless there's a change in the pension system, there's going to be a collapse at one point and the pension system's going to collapse. Unfortunately, the finance minister is not here, which is, of course, a matter of mathematics and sustainability of public finances; Mr Dinkic says retirement in the gross social product is 13.8%, which is not true because the IMF paper says that retirement is totaled by pensioners, around 12%. So the deficit that lies here as a reason, a deficit that is filled with 100 billion dinars of transfers from budgets to the Pension Insurance Fund, that deficit is calculated differently than in countries that reformed their accounting systems. As you know very well, and you're not going to say from this pay phone, 100 billion deficits are coming in and spending on the benefit of the benefits. All over the world in the budget is paid a certified job internship for police officers, for soldiers, and for anyone for whom the state prescribes that a privileged working-law regime should be established for him. Also, Mr. Minister, you know very well how to regulate the health insurance of pensioners in all Western European countries. (President: Time. I'll be done very soon. These are arguments. The minister called to discuss the arguments. It was a story with the IMF. How are pensioners' health insurance paid in England and how are they paid in Romania? Does this go into the account of pension system deficits, and these 100 billion dinars transferred in 2005 from the budget to the Pension Insurance Fund? Don't come in, and you know it very well. Therefore, it is not a deficit as large as the Finance Minister Dinkic shows, and it is bad that he is not here, that you are not responding to these things that he should respond to, but rather that deficit is smaller. What is the contribution rate for pension insurance in Serbia – 22%. What's the rate in OECD countries? Bigger or smaller than in Serbia? Bigger, 24%. What is the rate in transition countries – 6% higher than in Serbia. If you put your pension rate at 12%, and not 22%, you know what the budget deficit would be? Then 150 or 200 billion dinars should be allocated to fill out a deficit in the Pension Insurance Fund. Therefore, it is important that we have a clear insight into the facts. Instead of increasing the rate of contributions for pension insurance and reducing the rate of contribution for taxes, because Minister Dinkic here bombes us from day to day by saying the economic policy is called the surplus in the budget (the surplus in the budget means big taxes), why didn't you, Mr. Minister, cut the taxes a little bit, and slightly increase the contribution rate for pension insurance? Then, of course, it would not be such a dramatic way to talk about collapse or collapse, or whatever you want, the pension system in Serbia. That's not true. It is true that 1,300,000 pensioners are the weakest social group in Serbia, because they cannot come before the government of the Republic of Serbia to demonstrate, which is why Labus and Dinkic, and you defend them here, and then Prime Minister Kostunica, hit 1,300,000 pensioners and decided to transfer all the burden of transition to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19713	It's very incorrect. Already one MP has abused the line for six minutes now. In the part of the discussion, I was not present, and I cannot tell if the group, MP or any misread was mentioned. Here you go, Mr. Krassic, but I'm asking you not to do that kind of thing anymore, because it's not correct. I ask you to give the MPs who are ready to conduct the principle debate, and the authorised representatives, such as yourself and such as Mr Petrovic, will have an additional opportunity once again.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19714	Mr. President, it's not my fault that you weren't in one part of the session present. Mr. Lalovic took advantage of the opportunity he has according to the Rules of Procedure, told some things, commented on our discussions, but completely turned things around. Secondly, you had to warn government representatives when they came here, if they gave an opening statement and if they intend to discuss after the MPs in the principle debate, let them at least inform us of the outcome of the amendments submitted to the draft laws. Let them say - we refused everything, we accepted it, we did not accept it, so that we would know that we were focusing in what sense we were discussing the bill. We don't have that. I must say, it is not right at all that the minister turned the debate we had today over the age of the Serbian person, when it comes to the age of retirement. He kept us here going about when who graduated and how theoretically he had a chance to turn a year of life when after school he started working. We didn't talk about it today, we didn't use that argument at all. Today we just pointed out some harsh facts regarding regulations. Until a few years ago, the standard in this country was that a man of 60 years of age and 20 years of retirement is entitled to retirement. How much she'll be, she regulates another member. You have denied the right of the population category to exercise the right to retirement. In three years, it happened that a man lost his right because he didn't turn that age. Now you're going with some transitional and final provisions. We're not interested in parallel practice at all. These people will not exercise pension rights in Poland, the Czech Republic, but Serbia. Then you told us about it when someone graduates, how much it should work, and you told us – because poor working conditions are a benefits. In all countries, there is a well-favoured job experience for those who work in prisons and who fight crime. How can the state improve the working conditions of the police – to ban a thief? That's impossible. Those categories must have a certified internship. This is where fairy tales are spoken, fundamentally ignorant of what is the essence of pension and disability insurance. The insurance case for retirement is years of life, and the corrective factor is retirement, so that it doesn't happen that someone is entitled to retirement just because they've filled their years of life and didn't have any solidarity in the form of investments. This is where MPs G17 plus come out and talk about how they're about getting a pension when they turn 70. It can be at 65, but it's another fund, not a PIO, but if the state is building its own social security fund. Please concentrate on what the subject of these laws is. Everything you've done is to make as little talk as possible about a law that's under regular number two, which is designed for organized crime, that some people are keeping their large assets, tax-free, on their voluntary pension accounts and at a given moment's retreat. When you wanted to talk about reforming the pension and disability system, why didn't you put all three pillars in, why didn't you write new regulations and set out in the transitional and final provisions transitional solutions from a certain day and determine when it would start to apply those regulations? (President: Time. ) Here you tell us how you used the practice of Croatia, Macedonia, etc. You've seen the solutions that exist there, up to the age of 40, where the PIO Fund necessarily enters. Don't tell us any more fairy tales. Open your cards. That's why we're complaining, and that's why we're handling this. When you tell us that 60% of Serbian citizens receive this much, 60% of pensioners receive so much, we are not interested in it at all. That statistical research of yours is something that needs to direct you, but it's something that can't stop someone's right. You're using your internal problems as reasons to deny the right. That's why we raise our voice. Our argument differs from the Democratic Party's argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19715	The People's Messenger Mika Vlaovic has the word, and the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic, and the People's Messenger Milka Silajev.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19716	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've just come to say something to the Minister, and the minister comes out. He probably had other jobs. I don't want much of a pension and disability insurance bill. I think there's a lot that's been said here. As a man and as a host, I object to something: I accept that it can be criticised, that an improvement is sought in the law, but I cannot understand what raised tones and infatuated cheeks of some MPs, why a dispute over something that is completely unnecessary? We know from the DSS the situation where pensioners are, we know what would be most acceptable to them if we could fulfill and know, as hosts, reality, what is possible. What's possible isn't ideal for them, but it's something they'll have today, tomorrow and next year, to get back to them and what's left over in some years. We do not mention who is guilty and who is not, for the guilt of this and that is not a solution. We want to work it out. I had one question for the minister. I think they had the best will and best desire by passing this law on the public debt of the leftover pensions of farmers and employees. Since it's almost the same number, it kind of turns out that employees get paid back their backs for three years, and farmers in five years, so farmers turn out to be second-class citizens. I see there's an amendment to that, and I hope the minister accepts it. If it could not be paid in three years to each other, at least it was rightly determined to be four years for both. It's not normal for someone to believe that old farmers who went into retirement, with another habit that may not be the best, but it's worn for years, and it's domestically held in their hearts, with a few acres of land, and it's selling a few acres of money when it's impossible and it can't work, but it's still trying to do something, not to be unemployed and in these fields, so sick and old, it's trying to create income, and sometimes it creates losses, so what it gets for hire makes up for that loss on that smaller surface that he wanted to process. The farmer's pension is 3,000, so I'm asking you to find an opportunity to bring each other in line, or to be three years for each other or to extend to four years, so that it's equal. I don't know if it's true that farmers will receive the lowest pension of 6,000 since 2006, because they've received 3,000 so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19717	The word of the Messenger of the people is Milisab Petronijevic, and after him is the messenger of the people, Milka Silai.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19718	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian government has proposed five laws in the PIO area. Of that, three laws that solve current problems and two that have been called by continuing to reform the pension system. A very short comment: these three laws that solve current problems, the public debt law, which assumes the obligation to pay back one and a half pensions for employees and 20.5 pensions for farmers is a good step that the government has taken. Of course, we'd be more pleased if he was made to pay off at once. Obviously, the odds aren't. It's good in that she took a commitment and took it upon herself to solve it, after five years of talking about pensioners' debts and inactions. It's a good thing the minister brought out precise data today on debt and debt history. It is good that Serbia heard from the mouth of the minister, not me, that the debt until 5 October 2000 amounted to half the pension. It is good that Serbia's mouth has heard that in the period since 5 October 2000, times when armed democracy was introduced, the debt has not only not been returned, but has been increased for the entire pension. That's the information the minister said here today. It's good that Serbia knows. It is therefore a positive attitude towards this government's proposal to accept that commitment to reconcile it, though not at once, but at least a precise period of time has been established when it will settle. Another law that also solves current problems, that is the law, simplistically said, on the integration of internships. It's about the period from 1991 to 2003. What we are looking for, supporting this proposal by the government, and to have the support by the end of the adoption of this law, it is that no division is made until 2000 and from 2000 to 2003, or in other conditions. Simply, it applies to all workers from 1 January 1991 to 31 December 2003. In no case are workers to blame for not being paid a contribution, any condition that it is. Therefore, all of them should be put in the same position, and the state should find ways to resolve the collection of those companies that misused it and did not pay the profits. The second part of these laws, these two laws, the law on voluntary pension insurance and the law on amendments and amendments to pension insurance laws, are laws that continue to reform the pension system. I will briefly support the law on voluntary pension funds and financial plans as an idea, as an essential need to be done. As for the concrete solutions given in that bill, we have a lot of amendments and, of course, we will make it as good as possible. Finally, the fifth law, which is in fact the real essence of reforming the pension system, which is the amendment and addition of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, is as proposed for us is unacceptable. That's what my colleagues were saying today, and I'm going to be able to explain it from a few more angles. The changes in the PIO system that are offered are aimed at establishing the financial sustainability of that system, the financial consolidation of that system, and if observed only unilaterally, it is not disputed. It is disputed who will pay the cost of financial consolidation of that system. It's a dispute where we're different from the promoter, and that's a few points. It is disputed that no reform, so neither this pension system can be successful if it previously contains the policy and goals it wants to achieve, the development strategy in the area, the dynamics, some period of time when people will already know what's waiting for them in ten years. Then the laws of practical solutions to be solved. The following is disputed: however undeniable is the government's desire to introduce all three pillars in the long term, that, apart from the first state fund, the third one which is now introducing a voluntary private fund, introduce a second mandatory private fund, something that leads to the stabilisation of the pension system, and that is not disputed. What are we arguing about? Let us dispute who will provide those who cannot wait for that period to survive, who will provide them with security. In fact, the current pensioners can't wait for that system to work. The state has to worry about that, too. Thirdly, according to the law – as in most other countries, the PIO system in Serbia is based on ongoing pension financing, which means that all those who work and earn income, in principle of obligation, are singled out through contributions to PIO funds to finance pensions, i.e. users. That's what Minister Dinkic said today and it's not controversial. What don't the Minister and the Ministers talk about? The second sentence in their reasoning, which says – thus, today's deposit bonds gain the right to be financed from future pensions from future taxpayers' incomes, or future insurance companies. That's the key, the difference between us and the promoter. The reform of the pension insurance system is viewed as only a reduction in public spending. The PIO system sees as public spending. We disagree and that's not true. That's why I quoted this second sentence. Retirement is acquired, just as it says, by the payment of contributions during its working century, not only to finance existing pensions, but to gain the right and to secure himself in a time when he will not work. That's where we differ. Therefore, pension is a type of insurance, so it stands – pension and disability insurance, does not stand – pension and disability spending. That's where we differ essentially. Fourthly, any reform to succeed must make sense, not only in consolidation, not only in creating ambience, but ultimately, that people live better. Here we face another problem. Such a reform as is envisaged not only enables people to live better, it does not allow pensioners to retain the level of right acquired, or the value of the right acquired. So the cost of this financial consolidation will only be paid by pensioners. I don't agree with that. Fifth, this is the second reform of the pension system in three years. I guess nowhere in the world is going to reform like that. Both basically have social rights cuts. I'll remind you, and I don't think it's here, those who talk about justice, morality and humanity came out, that first reform in 2002, that was in 2003. Then there was the greatest reduction in social rights. That's when the age pension limit was moved lightningly in three years. That's when the way pension coordination was changed. Not only did this DOS government remain in debt one more pension, but as much care as I'm listening to these days, it has shown that in a legal way it has taken six pensions in just three years, moving on to a new pension accounting system. If he had remained existing, the pensioners would have received six more pensions, and they had borne the burden of it. For these reasons, we think that reforms cannot be based solely on the reduction of social rights. In particular, the two key problems we face, which is the seventh reason – are there other solutions to the consolidation of the pension fund? What about the privatisation funds? We used to listen to other solutions, not to repeat them now. Was the rule of law supposed to come as a final, final measure or as is the case now? That's why we're not in agreement. Of course, we're a serious and responsible party, we don't think we'll accept anything, let it last as long as it lasts, so what happens; no, we'll fight for these rights, but we're willing to do and help as much as possible with the reform, but not to jeopardize so much restrictively the right of pensioners. Two concrete examples: the first extension of years of age to obtain conditions for retirement, so first it is the key to obtaining a pension right – we think this solution is not good and we disagree. The solution that people will later retire on is something that needs to be pursued, it's not disputed. It refers to countries that have a stable situation, where there are jobs, where people can work and, thank God, they have to fight to work as long as possible. In this Serbia, there are millions of unemployed, which the government inherited, which is another concern of the previous government, which has looked at 500,000 people firing and thus solve the problem of the economy, because 500,000 people will not be paid. The problem of this government is not only 1:1 but 1:1:1, one worker - one pensioner - one unemployed, that's what this government found. I agree that a solution must be sought, but it must be such a solution that not only the one who is powerless, who cannot bear it. That's why we're looking for a step. Why were no other solutions offered? What about the variant to be 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, combined with the number of years of work hours, so let's say, 15 years of work experience 65 years of life, 25 years of training 60 years of life, etc.? What about the variant, since we all refer to Western countries, say, in Germany we can retire at 60 years, but 18% is a smaller pension? What about these offered opportunities for a man to choose? I remind you, in 2002, when there was a change, a huge number of people had just reached that right, had escaped for three years, and there was no work. Now that they've reached him again, he's running away again. So here we can only accept that the period is longer. Finally, about the pension adjustment, the key problem. This isn't about demagogy, it's about pure mathematics and calculus, although I was just talking against mathematics when I was talking about reforming the pension system that it's not dry mathematics, it's about being people that they're going to refer to and that they're supposed to exercise some of their rights. Here it's precisely said, and that's true -- it won't shrink, but it'll grow slower. What isn't said? The goal of every state, every society is to fight for a higher standard, increase employment, wages, etc., and this solution does not allow pensioners to do so, it only enables pensions to be harmonised with the cost of living from last year, means no more. This solution is possible in countries with stable systems and where everything works properly. In Serbia, the government does not care whether it consolidates the financial system, and that 1,300,000 people suffer it severely over their shoulders. That's why it's also given here a solution to align itself with the cost of living, either basically or the largest, along with a whole series of others, because there's no safeguard mechanism that's below which pension can't go any further than the average of profit, so that at least give it a chance that he can get close to that goal, and that's an improved standard of living. In that sense, we have given amendments and tied our support to these amendments. Two amendments to these two members are crucial. So we support reform, because we know that reforms must be, because it is necessary. We know that economic reform has to go, and we know that, with economic reform, social reform has to go, but I want you to be aware that there is no success of either if there are no social rights and there is no social justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19719	Thank you. The People's Messenger Milka Silajev has the word, and then the People's Messengers Gordana Komic and Dusan Proroković, and if they are not in the Hall, as they are not now, the Messenger of the People, Verica Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Silaiev.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19720	Dear Minister, honourable Members of Parliament, this is a significant law that says how many bile discussions there have been here. If it was a system law, it's normally known, and the bile discussion was a lot, it's proof that we're convincing each other, and it's known that the most inconclusive fortress in the world is the human head. It is normal that many arguments and many attitudes that have already been expressed will be repeated. I am one of these, and I would say that all of our misfortunes and the accidents of the Eastern countries, or the transition countries, were that the system collapsed as it is and that many human sufferings were present and that the transition of all socialist countries, including ours, was followed by a strong recession at its initial stage, which had many direct consequences. And among other things, there has been a major decline in production and an increase in unemployment and inflation, and a significant part of economic activity has moved to the gray zone. These changes in the economic system have also been reflected in the pension system. In this period, there was a drastic reduction in income, and therefore problems were created to meet the commitments undertaken. This was reflected in different ways, pensions were reduced, paid with great delay, etc. Observed from the corner of institutions, reform of the pension system meant radical adjustment of the established institutions or the creation of a completely new or combined one and the other. In the early years of reform of the country's pension system in transition, there was a change in the so-called pension system. The first pillar, as well as the introduction of the second pillar. Analysts believe Poland has gone the farthest in reforms. The establishment of a successful income collection system that finance pensions depends on the capacity of the administration and the institutions of society in general differs from country to country; institutions that are responsible for the collection of funds, as well as institutions that control the process in general. The improvement of the pension system cannot be resolved overnight, i.e. long and patient construction of not only the necessary institutions, but also the return of lost citizens' trust in the country, to the state. In this process of revitalisation, researchers argue, very close co-operation is needed not only by the government and social security institutions, but also by employers and employees. It has been shown, based on comparisons of the reform processes in certain countries, that there is no universal and successful model, but that each country must seek its way and that with concrete limitations it requires the best solutions. The current pension insurance system is a one-part, mandatory public system, with predetermined pension benefits. It works by system pay as you go, in principle according to which employees finance current pensioners. Such a concept of intergenerational solidarity is extremely favourable where expansion is located, where demographic movements are in expansion and only works well in case the population is young, i.e. when the number of persons employed is markedly higher than the number of pensioners. This happened in Europe and in the world right after World War II, when birth was very expansional. And now so many born children have reached retirement. Now all the countries in the world have a problem with that "golden generation". However, the number of employees and the number of pensioners with age is getting worse. In 1966, this relationship was 1:4, and now it is 1:1, which is an extraordinary burden for employees. That is why it often happens to avoid paying the funds of the contribution or to be paid in a reduced amount. The draft law on the payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance for employees who are not paid a contribution to pension and disability insurance shall regulate the conditions, means and means of financing the payment of contributions. This partially corrects the injustice done to the workers. Since the state should not also be liable to farmers, a proposal for a public debt law has been given on the basis of unpaid pensions and cash compensations to farmers, as well as a proposal for a public debt law based on the commitment of the Fund on outstanding pensions and fines. In addition, one of the basic characteristics of our pension system is the high average and the ratio of the average pension fee and the average earnings. That's how he was about 70%, and now he's about 60%. In Slovenia, this relationship is 52%, and in Croatia it is 55%. It is an extremely high number of disabled pensioners, generally observed, and for years the trend of early retirement is expressed. A high rate of contribution is also necessary; it is 22% in Serbia, 11% on the employee's burden, and 11% on the employer's burden. In recent years, the state has engaged maximumly, in various ways, in order to cover the permanent deficit in pension insurance. The proposed law is passed from the current Swiss formulae of harmonising to gradually reducing the participation of the profit parameters, so that after four years of retirement, it will be brought into line with the cost of living alone. We, who still spend about a fifth more than we create, need to be aware that no one else will fund us, no credit, no donations. The time has come for us to reduce consumption in all social segments to what we produce. At present, the situation is that 40% of pension funds are being reconciled from the budget. In particular, only within this year will the state set aside about 70 billion dinars for this purpose. In Serbia, 14% of the social product is retired, while the average in OECD countries is 8.1%). It is proposed to raise the level, which is what is good and positive and that our population with the lowest incomes should not fear, the lowest pensions to 25% of the average income employed at the level of the Republic in the previous year. The level of the lowest age and disability pensions for farmers shall be determined at the level of the minimum pension of the users found. The newest law on pension-inhabited insurance has been considered and voluntary pension insurance. Under this type of insurance, those who self-initiatively want additional insurance for risks of age, disability, death should be ensured. This will be achieved by voluntary payment of funds, so that it will be a premium. The premiums are characterized by voluntary pension insurance, and they contribute to mandatory pension insurance. This level of pension insurance should operate on the basis of capital coverage, i.e. to be based on a system of capital accumulation. The collection of funds based on the payment of premiums should be invested in the financial market in different forms of securities of value. The funds of voluntary pension insurance must be a source of security for the future pensioner. These are long-term assets, extremely good for investment, which strengthen economic processes and as such must have a privileged position by the state. A large number of countries in the reform transition stand on three pillars, on three levels. The first is compulsory insurance, the second is compulsory pension insurance under which each individual has its own savings account, the capitalisation principle, and the third is voluntary pension insurance. We're starting from the introduction of this third pillar. The practice of a large number of countries has shown that this insurance system delivers significant results only in the reform of the entire pension insurance system, especially for the young population, while the elderly seem to have to wait until a safer age. The G17 will support a set of laws that, whether we understand it or not, are the necessity of this time. I hope that even the opposition part of the Assembly will do so for Serbia's sake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19721	Thank you, Mrs. Silaev. Now the word has a People's MP Gordana Komic, but is not present. The word is "Verica Radet." There is no more time for Mr. Urosevic and Mr. Vucelic. That time of the parliamentary group was spent by Mrs. Silayev. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta. Let MP Velimir Simonovic be prepared, followed by Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19722	Ladies and gentlemen, I love it when ministers present the government's draft laws. Every time I listen very carefully to the Ministers so that I can plead with them during the debate. But today, unfortunately, it will not be possible, not only because Mladjan Dinkic is not here, but also because neither Minister Lalovic nor Minister Dinkic said anything about these pension and disability insurance reforms. What the ministers were telling us here today was the beating of empty straw, as the people at our place say. There was nothing concrete, no argument that would convince the MPs that what the government is offering is meaningful and that it is possible and applicable in the Republic of Serbia for this moment. What we read and follow in the media these days shows one great fear of Serbian citizens from these, Minister Lalovic, your laws. You tried today, along with Dinkic, to say that there is no room for fear, but we have been trying to explain to you all day that unfortunately, there is room for fear and that these bill proposals and your relationship with the IMF are indeed something that Serbian citizens should fear. During today's debate, I remembered a statement by Zoran Djindjic in late 2001, following the famous five-octobar revolution bulldozer; then he said that the transition to Serbia will certainly not survive all of them, but those who remain alive will one day live better. That's what motivated you and this government when it suggests such a drastic solution to what you call reform. Minister, these are not reforms, especially when we know that we have one reform, the attempt to reform pension disability insurance in 2003. Here's one MP whose group of MPs will support these laws, said one cruel truth. He says -- these laws are good for future pensioners, they're only a problem for those who are currently retired. We know it's like that, but it's really scary. What are you going to do about pensioners who are currently receiving pensions, who are currently retired? I don't know if you're aware that these people, that category of Serbian residents, are already slowly dying because there's nothing to live on. This is your so-called. The reforms will continue with the slow dying. Believe me, Minister, it would be more humane to kill them and then start applying to those future pensioners. What's going on right now... I don't know if you know, do you communicate with Serbian citizens, how pensioners live, how they live in Serbia at all? Pensioners are indeed a category that is at the mercy of this state, of this government and even now, with these laws and laws like this, I don't know if anyone will survive the application of these laws. Regardless of what some MPs here today have tried to convince us that these are good solutions, I will repeat what my colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party have been saying all day. The fact is, and the truth is, you're cutting pensions with these laws. Don't convince us of one of your accounts that says that's not the case, because that's the case. It is true that you hereby abolish existing privileges. It is true that these laws increase the age limit and it is incomprehensible that someone dares to come out here and say that everything I say now and that Serbian radicals say all day is not true. That's what it says here. That's what the writers can do, and they should know how to read it. I'm going to comment briefly on two or three members, because we've tabled certain amendments. Of course, when it comes to amendments, we'll talk about it in more detail. Now I'm just going to say what's most drastic. For example, Article 4, which really moves the age limit, I don't know how you're going to explain (if you try again at 19.45 to conclude a session, as you did by mistake at 17.45) that this is not a shift in the age limit when you say in article 19, which is referred to by this Article 4 (points 1) to 3) are changed and said, and Article 19 refers precisely to when an insurance officer is entitled to an age pension: 1) when he is 65 (a man) or 60 years old (a woman) and at least 15 years of insurance training; 2) when he turns 40 (a man), or 35 (a woman) years of insurance and at least 53 years of life. It would be nice if you could explain to us how old this man starts working when he's 40 years old and 53 years old. Is it possible that someone starts working when they're 13 years old? It's not possible. Of 15 yes, but of 13 no. We've been passing some other laws here, so we need to know. And when she's 45 years old, she's in insurance. This is what the citizens of Serbia are afraid of. This is what you're commenting on in the media these days. This is what it says in support of our claim that you are destroying pensioners with these laws, making it impossible to create new jobs and employ young people in Serbia. I'd like to say briefly about Article 22. Proposal for a law relating to Article 80 of the basic law, which speaks of the basis for changing pensions, i.e. the harmonisation of pensions. In your first position, you say, "The pension has been coordinated since 1 April of the current year, based on statistics, with the cost of living on the territory of the Republic in the previous 12 months. "I ask you, why didn't you do this coordination, say, with the profits? It's more real and it's something you can't set up at the Statistics Office. In this state, as you have now predicted, the minister can determine the methodology, you know that. The minister will determine that he changes the methodology from month to month to give information on how the minister, the ministry or the government of the Republic of Serbia fits. So this is not the right way, this will further endanger pensioners in Serbia, because you can read data by moving the cost of life and your famous "user basket", which, as you show it, is certainly not enough to live. Someone here was talking about that experiment that someone did, when the MPs also participated and tried to survive with the average wage and found it impossible. So you will thus coordinate these data and distract the public, talk – statistics have found that there has been no increase in costs and therefore we will not increase pensions. It's a big trick, those statistics don't mean anything. I'll remind you that in Argentina, when the state went bankrupt, when it was the biggest crisis in Argentina, the average salary was $500. This does not mean anything, as nothing in Serbia today means an average salary of 200 euros, as it is much harder to live with 200 euros today than it was living with 100 marks in 1990 and 2000. Ask all the citizens, ask the pensioners. Don't run a cabinet policy, but live a little in this people. This is where the public debt law is discussed when agricultural pensions are left behind. It is truly incomprehensible, we expect you to accept the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party, to put in different baskets pensioners of farmers and pensioners who have become out of work. Anyway, agricultural pensions are much less, you've forced farmers into compulsory insurance anyway, and Serbian radicals have been against it; you're now putting them in a different basket, and you're extending time to take over this public debt. It would really be good for you to accept the amendment, to show a little goodwill when it comes to farmers in Serbia. Since there was a speech here today, and you, Minister Lalovic, and some MPs who will support this law, spoke about joining the internships, that is, the payment of contributions where they are not paid, and then someone here said this job would be completed in a year—it is again a confusion, delusion and deception, misinformation of Serbian citizens. Article 7. You only formally commit yourself to something you don't have to comply with, because there are no criminal provisions and there's no telling what's going to happen if this isn't respected. "The Fund is obliged, if the conditions laid down in this law are met, to adopt a solution establishing the right to pay the contribution under this law, no later than 12 months after the date of application. "What happens if that solution is not reached within 12 months? This bill doesn't say that, and it should. "The right to determine the staff insurance of the persons referred to in Article 2 of this Act is obtained when funds are transferred to the Fund from the Republic's budget, within the framework of the planned transfer funds to mandatory social insurance organisations, and in height and in a way that does not jeopardise the liquid possibility of the budget... ". Who's going to evaluate this? You will say at the end of this year or next that there are no conditions to apply Article 7 and yet there will be no associated work experience for those who have never been before. So, you're trying with some words so beautiful, and it's even been sad and funny here today to listen to the minors of some poetic speeches on the subject of such life regulations, to convince the citizens of Serbia that after these laws they'll live better, that you won't cut their pensions. When someone said that about this speaker, then one of the colleagues who, by respecting his party discipline, will vote for this law, because of the ruling coalition, turned to us from the Serbian Radical Party and said – yes, pensions will increase, but in fact it will be less. That's the point. Pensions will be less, and you have to admit it to the citizens of Serbia. Since there are very few MPs here, I am speaking to you, Minister, to tell Dinkic, if you see him, that it is not too late, to withdraw these truly destructive laws, do not carry on the souls of the pensioners in Serbia. We Serbian radicals are for reforms and we know that we need to reform the pension system, but not in this way and not at this pace as you predicted. If you do not do so, it would really be good for fellow Members who make up the congregation majority to think carefully about the promises of their parties in the election campaign. I'm telling you, anyone in the election campaign ahead of the last parliamentary elections, on the basis of which we are in this room, mentioned that this is the way the so-called. reform of the pension and disability system, believe me, not if you didn't have one MP, you wouldn't have a single vote. Don't let the citizens ask you before the next election why you lied to them. You have no right, gentlemen of Parliament, to make these decisions, because pensioners are our parents, our grandparents, they don't deserve it, and you don't have the right to destroy them, to make laws that will slowly die, because with pensions that are now impossible to live, let alone with pensions that will be reduced after these laws. I'll remind you, when we talked about the first one in 2003, the "great" reforms again, all something big, reformistic, as if you were discovering a hole in the potsy, the previous government acted like that, and you did today, when we talked in 2003 about the government's proposal at the time, then a colleague who was a member of one of the DOS parties said, opposing the discussions of Serbian radicals, that he had a grandmother who received a pension of 6,000 dinars and that that woman lived well with those 6,000 dinars, even from time to time managed to buy some chocolate for the grandchildren. That fellow's an MP today. Did his grandmother survive with 6,000 dinars a month, if he wasn't helping her, I don't know, but I know that his MP group is now, among other things, because of such pension insurance, at least five times smaller than it was in 2003.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19723	The word has the People's MP Velimir Simonovic, and let MP Milan Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19724	Ladies and gentlemen, I will refer to this law, but in a very general way. I know, and anyone can find out if they want, that in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia between the two world wars, the pension fund was completely independent of the budget, and it was such a rich fund that the finance minister could come to borrow money from the fund for a certain amount of interest. Even an expert, whom I later met because he was a professor at the Faculty of Engineering and was an expert and advisor in that fund, suggested that the fund invest money in some mines in South America. After the war, this fund began to disappear, to land for various reasons. It was said that some resorts, hotels, etc. were built from that fund. In the end, it came down to a large part or a good part of the pension being paid out of the budget. It's not normal at all. The government's efforts and every other government should be in that sense that the fund will become rich enough and completely detached from the budget. How many years it takes I don't know, maybe it's five, 10 years, or maybe even 15 years, but it has to be the ultimate goal of this and future government, that someone who's busy today can't say, I work for the pensioners. He doesn't work for pensioners. He works for his pension, and the pensioners earned their pension early, except their money's not in the fund because someone spent it. Therefore, everyone who is employed today only works for his pension, which he pays for in the fund and who he is due to receive one day when he is mature for retirement. If the minister used the words - the sustainability of the fund, the thought of what I'm talking about, then we totally agree. The fund cannot be sustainable if it is not separated from the budget and if it is sufficient, as a strong financial institution that can regularly pay out pensions. We've been listening to very flammable speeches here not only today, but we've been able to read in the press these days, and in public too, many think it's necessary to scare the pensioners that they're going to fail, they're going to die out, they're going to cut their pensions, etc. I am convinced that the ministers today were very convincing in explaining the new few laws that are being discussed here today and that there are no pensioners to be afraid of, there are no objective reasons. As for the 65-year-old internship, it's no news to us, ladies and gentlemen. We had a recent Law on Higher Education, which said that teachers from higher education institutions retire in the school year in which they were 65 years old. When 10 or more years ago it was similar in the University Act, but it was said that women could go at 60, then our college colleagues rebelled terribly. They said we want to work until we're 65, we're equal to men. I know there's now a certain layer of citizens, employees, who don't want to retire 65 years ago. It is well explained that the entire pension system will have a gradual trend in its realization. They don't make any sudden changes here. It will go gradually, some will benefit from the current law, etc., not to repeat what Minister Lalovic was talking about. Seems a little funny to me when I was listening today to some count on how many pensions there will be in 2030 under this new law. Ladies and gentlemen, by 2030, who knows how much change we'll survive. The role of science and technology will be so great that over 15, 20 or 25 years of life, not only in our country, but also on the planet, it will be quite different. Our political parties, our ideologies, our way of life, our philosophy of life will be worth nothing in 25 or 30 years. It'll all be different. Let's not worry about how many pensions there will be in 2030.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19725	The word has a People's MP Milan Markovic, and let MP Momir Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19726	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I am impressed by the government's attitude towards Serbia and the public in the Republic of Serbia, towards the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, according to everything that makes real life in the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia is obviously in the head just a figure of 126 MPs who maintain the government. You have today proposed a law that is very difficult in every respect, it is also difficult for you to explain it, it is also difficult for MPs who should vote, it is also difficult for those to be applied to; it is difficult for all citizens of Serbia in general, because it will apply to all of them. In doing so, you have three DSS deputies and two G17 MPs in the room. You couldn't have that much respect for your MPs sitting in the O.R. when you explain it. Minister Dinkic is at press conferences, not in the National Assembly, where he belongs. You were here half the day, half the day you weren't there. It's the way you make such important laws. I was shocked by your performance this morning. Believe me, at one point I wondered if you had any political experience at all, what this is all about. You were talking about the government of the Republic of Serbia as an incredibly successful government, how it set some standards for Serbia's future, like I don't know what, this or that. You don't know which country we all live in and as living citizens of Serbia. You say -- the government of Vojislav Kostunica has set some standards for future governments. Mr. Minister, what standards have you set? What have you done in Serbia for the past year, two days? Is the standard every third day an affair? Is that a standard to be followed by future governments? Is it standard to drive on Syrian oil? Is the standard when yesterday's high-ranking official of the ruling coalition accuses the government of buying out the Czech debt? Is the standard "Knjiz Milos", where we heard today the accusation of your former coalition partner again that the state then lost I don't know how many hundreds or tens of millions of euros? Is that the standard for some future Serbia to be managed? Is the standard for the future Serbia to be run by so-called. Power affair? This is where we had the Survey Committee, etc. and never did the survey committee report come to this assembly's agenda. Is "Erikson" an affair the same standard for Serbia's future vice president? Is everything that happens around the Serbia-Montenegro Army the standard that you have introduced in Serbia, which we all need to follow in the future? Is the standard the same congregation we have today? That's what you say who are one of those who is suspected of participating in the counterfeiting of the Labour Act. We have filed criminal charges against a number of people, including the president of the National Assembly. Is that the standard you set for us, and in the election campaign you swore to build institutions? What institutions did you build? You have destroyed every institution in Serbia. You are talking about this government, and it is only worth talking so strongly about in terms of the following fact: the only government in Europe and the only government in Serbia that ruled with so little support for citizens. There is no government, you know it, and I know it, that it ruled with so little support from the citizens. There is no government that has divided Serbia into political parties and no one is allowed to interfere in the portfolio. Neither you can mention anything about G17, nor the G17 can mention anything to the DSS. You've eaten Serbia on the feds and you can do whatever you want in those feuds. Is that the standard we need to apply tomorrow if we come to power, or another opposition party if it comes to power? It's not standard. Instead of your opening presentation being really focused on the new law, your opening statement was directed to the government of Vojislav Kostunica. It is hard to say whether there was a worse government in Serbia in a multi-party system. Maybe it was worse by the results of that government, we had catastrophic results, the country was devastated, we had war, crisis, misery, misery, etc. Since 2000, this has been the worst government. Is this standard that you've been doing so well that the president of the Anti-Corruption Council tells the government of Vojislav Kostunica that it is the centre of corruption in Serbia? That's the standard you're explaining to us here. We're listening to you this morning, 40 minutes you're talking about the government of Vojislav Kostunica, instead of the law. Then I'm talking about the government of Vojislav Kostunica. Is this standard that no one should give up in the future for inflation to be 17%? Is it standard for us all to have Velju Ilic as Minister? Should we all have a minister with such behaviour tomorrow, as Velimir Ilic, one of the most effective ministers, said Mladjan Dinkic. No wonder it is most effective in the government of Vojislav Kostunica. Only in such a government can he be the most effective minister. Is it standard for no one to step down from tomorrow for ministers to go deaf about their constitutional obligations? We sent parliamentary questions to Velimir Ilic on 2 February 2005. Can one of you in the government tell that man that his constitutional obligation is to answer parliamentary questions? That's the standard you're telling us you've introduced. Is the standard what happened at JAT? In the morning, you say that this government is not managed by party interests, that it is important for Serbia's distant future. How did you replace Nebojsa Covic, your president yesterday? With which interests you've managed, you've replaced a man overnight. What, you may have made an assessment of what Soren Jessen-Petersen would say, how Nedjad Daci would laugh, how he would laugh. They're laughing at us. Watch out for that comedy, until yesterday the man was a legitimate representative of Serbia in all those talks held by the Coordination Centre, and overnight the man was replaced. And that's a serious state? Is the standard for future authorities that one finance minister accuses the defence minister and that the whole of Serbia is waiting for the defence minister to be replaced at the presidency of a party? It's a non-serious state. Is the standard, at the very least, that in the government of the Republic of Serbia, there are people who get less than 1% of the votes in the elections in their cities? That's the standard you've been following us. Not to talk about many other things. I guess one day here will change the standards, the standards that you have introduced, so this National Assembly will have the opportunity to discuss the work of ministers and the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I will remind you as Minister, also, that, contrary to the Constitution, you opposed the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, refused to discuss the work of Minister Jocic, the work of Minister Stojkovic, the work of the National Assembly president and refused to discuss the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia. You've had a great excuse – some have done it before. Apart from you, there was an incredible number of passwords here, from that darkness in the tunnel, I am sorry that my colleague Vukevic is not here, I wrote down what he was saying, besides that man didn't understand his whole speech, that the EU was a term from earlier times, or basic elemental things he didn't know how to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19727	Maybe we should get you a stenogram.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19728	I was hoping to speak to you on Monday, to tell you the truth, so if I took a stenogram of what the MPs here from the ruling coalition were saying... You can't say reform, reform, and now reform, so whatever you push, it's reform; and says a colleague earlier – DS should decide whether it's for reforms. Who's for reform if it's not us? That doesn't necessarily mean that we vote for every law that you pass under the pretext of reform. Who, ma'am, voted for the laws when the SPS wouldn't vote? Who supported the law? One-quarter of the law is supported by us. Then how can you accuse us of not being in favour of reform? That, in the end, is not correct. Do I need to remind you of the Seed Act, when Minister Dulic told your coalition partners that during their rule, corpses were driven in the freezers, so they got angry and said, "We will not vote." Of course, the Democratic Party voted, because the law is good and reformal. We could not vote then and your coalition would fall apart. It is not fair that you question us, our desire and our readiness for reform. As far as the law is concerned, the law is deeply unfair and there is no doubt that this is due to poor negotiation and the result of government work working from today to tomorrow, from Dnevnik to Dnevnik, from public opinion research to public opinion research. How did you even get into a situation where you had to force this law here now? What is this negotiation that Minister Dinkic says was so obvious? It is a state, the minister is a minister; what a shocking negotiation and that no one here in Serbia knows who, in the end, has offered these refineries to be sold. Who during these negotiations offered to pass such a law? You read in the newspaper – Minister Dinkic says it is Mr Naumov, and Mr Naumov says - I don't know anything about it. It's the government of the Republic of Serbia. That's the standard you've been talking about here for 20 minutes in the morning and Serbia will follow in the years to come, the government of Vojislav Kostunica. As for leaders in the Balkans, let me tell you right away, Serbia as a leader in the Balkans, that assessment refers to that we are in this time period, and we have come, thanks to the reforms that have been done since 2000, during this time period, to make certain changes in our legislation. One of these changes, among other things, is, let's say, it doesn't take $5,000 to start a company, it needs $500. I don't know what you're making of it. You say, "Study of feasibility," I mean, only who can't have it. Did we perhaps reach Albania in this process? What are we talking about? We're the last ones back in the region. A colleague, Vucevic, says, also colleagues from G17 plus – this law is a guarantee that pensions will be paid in a month. Who says it's a guarantee? What, so far it wasn't a commitment, it wasn't even in the last 10 to 15 years to pay off a month in a month? What guarantee is that? What's the guarantee when we don't have a growth in production, when we don't have a salary increase, what's the guarantee that a month in a month is going to pay here? It's not to pass the law. We, people, have a fundamental problem with our economy. Our economy stands. There's our problem. He says – the law is a guarantee that the month will be paid in a month. What, now all of a sudden there's gonna be money? Where's that money coming from? Then Dusan Petrovic comes out, explains why the law is wrong here and why the DS won't vote for that law and you in the absence of arguments make me not know what. Look, please, in an explanation, says Minister Lalovic, among other things, there is a proposal to change the dynamics of harmonising pensions once a year, so the transition from the current way of harmonising pensions to coordinating pensions with the cost of living on the territory of the Republic in the previous 12 months, so he says, is proposed extraordinaryly, if prices rise to a little and more than 5 percent cumulatively. In other words, everything is proposed as restrictively and worse than the current situation. All this well concludes - the social standard of pension users will improve. I don't know if you're kidding. You answer me if it's true that today who is receiving a 50 percent pension for a consumer basket, does he ever have a chance to be 55 percent of the consumer basket for the rest of his life? That's the question. That's the essential question, are we nailing this fate to someone: you're poor now, you'll be poor until you die. In 2010, the MP could have a salary of 10,000 euros, where the average salary in Serbia could be 5,000 euros, but the one who now has half the consumer basket will have it. That's what this is about. That's why we can't vote for this law. It's terrible to condemn someone now to be a lifetime poor. It does not necessarily mean that if this law is not adopted, there will be a system of reckonings as well as so far, God knows how it will be better, but people have a chance, have some hope, live with some hope and say it will be better next year, so we hope for the last 15 years in this Serbia. That hope gives life. No, when this law is passed, one who has half the consumer basket will have as long as he is alive or less, because it is harmonised once a year. That's true. I'd like you to come out and tell me that's not true. That's my question for you, and that's why, among other things, we can't vote for your bill. You say it is an increase in years of life and age, so it exists in this land and that land. The way we heard it here, it's not exactly what you said. We also heard that there are countries that are in a different environment and the whole environment is different. No one says that he should now work until 65, and whether someone is thinking about not opening new jobs that might open this year for the one, or next, or in 2010, for all the unemployed who are waiting to open those jobs. It's not so possible just to look unilaterally. There's no guarantee this law will solve this issue. I don't think you're the effects of the law that we've done well. There's no evidence here that it's going to get better now. Someone next can think of and say – let's now extend to 67 years or 70 years, etc. This is wrongly negotiated with the IMF and you know it and we know it. That is the essence of the problem, that the government of Vojislav Kostunica does not have a clear policy-making strategy. You've shown this on a million examples so far, and you're showing it on this case as well. My question remains – will those to whom after 2009. (definitely that date, after 2009) the salary is 50 percent of the consumer basket ever have a chance of their standard of living changing in that sense, if they are pensioners? I know the answer that won't, that's clear, won't always be in line with the rise in real costs. I'd like you to tell it here to the citizens of Serbia, and don't accuse us in any way anymore. The Democratic Party is not guilty of your incompetence, nor is it because of the state in which Serbia is located under Vojislav Kostunica in this year and a few days. You're on your own. You had a nice power a year and a half ago, and I know a lot of people who laughed in the previous session, you laughed then, because running a state is a serious business. It's sad that you did see that running the state was a serious job, but you didn't start doing it seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19729	I thank you, Mr. Markovic. The replica was reported by MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic. I'd like the government to deliver us for the next session when those negotiations were, since Naumov told us at the Parliament Club that it was in 2002. It would be good for lawmakers to finally know when the agreement was signed, which year, whether 2002, 2003, 2004, or 2005, so that we MPs would be informed. This is how we're deluded. One of them talks in 2004 and the other one in 2002, it would finally be good to know when.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19730	I'll try to answer some of those questions. I'm really sorry, Mr. Markovic, that you thought you were gonna talk Monday, so you didn't get a little bit better prepared to talk about the law today. Then you took advantage of a series of passwords related to the government's work, and some of them I'll try to give an answer. Don't call on standards, please, standards in conduct, and you've called one government minister; but your prime minister in the past government, how he acted, would you be kind enough to tell me. Do you think his behavior was better, that it was more cultured, that it was more moderate, that it was more polite? He was prime minister of the government. I'd say their behavior is quite comparable. As for JAT, you asked for standards in JAT, are gold spoons that standard in JAT you're talking about? Whether the standards are associates with fictitious accounts to which billions of euros are paid, associates from whom you have not fenced, unlike this government that is willing to fence itself from its associates at the same time that it realizes that there are some problems with them. They're not affairs, Mr. Markovic. It is the willingness to deal with those in our ranks who have problems with corruption or we suspect they have problems with corruption. For me, it's a perfectly acceptable standard, probably not for you. Is your standard of destroying institutions like Bodrum and everything else that's been going on? Please don't tell us about the standards, let's talk about the law, of course you talked about it at least. Is your standard an unsustainable budget, with the huge deficit that this government inherited, with debts that haven't even been shown? Are those the standards you're talking about, Mr. Markovic? Come on, please, let's put the story of standards aside, 'cause it'll last till midnight, and let's get to the story of the law. What did you say about the law, what's wrong with this law, for you? You're talking about reform being just a matter. Not true, these reforms have laws and articles in those laws that are or are not right, are reform or not reformal. What in this law isn't reform for you, I'd like to hear, I'd really be interested. As for pensioner standards, Mr. Markovic, let me remind you, if you haven't met, in 2001 and 2003 the pension bill was changed, at the time of your government. At that time, a change of account was made, and above all, the clause that counts for ten of the most favourable years for retirement was changed. Did that reduce pensioner standards, that's my question to you, or didn't it? Next, at that time, it moved on to so-called. the Swiss method of reckoning, which introduced not only the alignment with the wages, but also the alignment with the cost of living. Now you're saying it's a bad solution. Do you acknowledge that your solutions were bad or are they always bad? Also, at the time of your government, the retirement age, Mr. Markovic, was extended, at one point in three years. You're now talking about the extension of old age being something that is unacceptable. I'd like to ask you for a little more consistency, so we can talk at all. So if you're completely inconsistencies in your statements, I really can't follow you. So, I wouldn't talk about this any further, and I believe you'll have something else to say, so we can talk about it further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19731	I thank Snezani Stojanovic-Plasic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19732	Ma'am, right to say I don't know what to start with. So, what you think you can compare Mr. Zivkovic and Mr. Velja Ilic, it's really a problem, your party and your party. Of course they are incomparable, such as the incomparable Democratic Party with New Serbia, such as the incomparable Democratic Party with G17 plus. Everyone in Serbia knows what G17 plus compares to, it's JUL. You know everyone compares you to JUL. Mr. Zivkovic was a gentleman for Velimir Ilic. That's the first one. Secondly, what JAT, what you're talking about, is an affair concerning Belgrade's airport. Then you arrested, or UBPOK was arrested, because Mr. Spasic was Mr. Dinkic's personal friend, Mary Rushet, and several other faces, which we see immediately after that were released. I don't even think there's a procedure in place for Maria Rushette. It was political retribution, and these other persons will answer to the law, and let them respond. Whoever stole it, let him answer if he stole it, it's no problem at all, and why are you bringing it up to me now? In what sense do we now have to give up and who? Are they our officials? Are they our messengers? If they're our party presidency members, I don't understand what you're talking about. I told you JAT, the problem is in JAT, and then one of your ministers comes and says, "We can't, it's the domain of the other political party." You've made all of Serbia by the parties. It can't be mixed with Velija Ilic, because JAT belongs to the SPO. Who gave you the right to give you the resources of this state, not the SPO, but the G17? It doesn't belong to you, like it doesn't belong to us, it belongs to the state. You can only manage for a while. That was a JAT problem. Secondly, the fact that you mentioned Bodrum – ma'am, you can't remember, you forged the Labour Act. For God's sake, people, a law has been passed here, and you've rewritten it and sent it to the President of the Republic a different law, what about you? What are you talking about here? Everyone knows that, your officials know who tipped us off from the government that you did it. You know, maybe you, too, who tipped off the government that it was a forged law, reported to the President of the Republic's office that they falsified the law. Someone will answer for it. There's no such thing as a worse thing. Why Parliament, if you'll forge the laws. Secondly, ma'am, you've built a political career, or your party, with daily attacks on the Democratic Party government, drawing these panorama, bringing up affairs, I don't know what you've already been doing, and then you showed that you have no elemental response to the state's relationship. What happened to all that now? Why don't you arrest one of those people? You haven't arrested anyone. There's no worse control of the judiciary than you've established over a year and a half. Why aren't you processing someone? Where are all those thieves from the Democratic Party, so you can arrest them? Why don't you arrest us? I'm only telling you what your coalition partners are talking about. Today people here joke that you need to take away your passports, that you've fallen to 0.9% and that your passports should be taken away before the election. I'm telling you what your people are saying. And I'm telling you about the Czech debt. Did I say that or did Mr. Drakulić, the senior DSS official yesterday, who was a candidate for the vice president of the party? Did we talk about the Czech debt or him? Did we talk about Syrian oil or him? Are we talking today about "Knjiz Milos" or Meho Omerovic, your associate this morning? What's going on with the Yugoslav Army? Who killed those soldiers in Topcider? Your distinguished piece, Mr. Davinic, Minister; you have now noticed that you have made a little mistake with Mr. Davinic, and if he had agreed to take Mr. Radovic to control the finances, then you would not have cheated with Mr. Davinic, then Davinic would have been good to you, only if he had agreed to press Mr. Dinkic to receive Mr. Radovic. Don't talk about crime and corruption, at least the right to have the government of Vojislav Kostunica, especially G17 plus. That would be better if I could talk tomorrow, I say because I wanted to take out all the passwords you brought out here today. I repeat, I cannot vote for a law that will tell a large group of Serbian citizens - you are poor and you will remain that way for the rest of your life. I can't vote for a law that will take away their hope. Get out here and tell me if it's true that someone who has a pension in 2009 which is 50% consumer baskets for the rest of their lives will have 51% consumer baskets. It's a question for you, and that's why I can't vote for that law. You write in your explanation that there were two criteria, even says that the effects of our reform were good, but in your opinion not enough. But the point is not that you make it worse than we are, the point is that you started the economy, how much money could have come together. Mr Dinkic is talking about how many millions and millions of euros have been embezzled in this affair. I don't know if it's been embezzled, and that's what Mr Dinkic says about the DOD, which is back under G17. To be honest, there is nothing in this Serbia where the affair is tied up without something related to G17.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19733	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. That is why it is best for us to return to our law, when we were in power, that is the most honest – 90% of the salary. Here you go, Mrs. Snow White.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19734	The best thing to do is to go back to the law we're discussing today, and with this whole replacement of thesis, it's really impossible to argue. I was quite clear in what I was saying and, of course, sir, that many of the affairs had not received an epilogue in court. Bodrum hasn't won yet, unfortunately, an epilogue in court, but you admitted that affair. So you admitted that it happened. For me personally, it's a high moral act and it's perfectly fine, but it happened. Do you need proof in court now? Of course, I expect we'll get an epilogue in court for all these affairs, but unfortunately, so far they're gone and don't call for court, I beg you. It's just that some things are what they are, they were there, they were admitted, and they happened and we can't run away from them and we're going to bear all the political responsibility. Don't you, Mr. Markovic, worry about what the G17 plus rating is, how we're going to pass the election, etc. As anyone passes the election, it'll be seen in the election. The choices are the only criteria. The examination of public opinion, it's a great honor, but you'll allow it, the election is the only criterion. I'm not really going to repeat the results that we had in Leskovac in the local elections, but they were significantly bigger than those, I don't know how much you've just invented some 0.9%, so you must have slept up some sleep for you tonight. So I've asked you certain questions regarding the pension law and about what you've been doing on that plan. Now you're criticizing this government that goes that way. I don't see the possibility of you criticizing something you've done yourself and criticizing the direction you've been going. Is it possible to criticize the direction you went yourself? Is it possible that a year ago, criticism is spread against this government as it is demagogue, as it is populist, as it does not have the strength to reform, that there is no power to restructure public enterprises, and when it does, we will all find ourselves defending poor citizens from a government that does evil to them, which is both like this and what class has no power, the hour has too much power, etc.? I call for consistency, and that's what we really do. Don't, I'm really asking you, worry about how G17 plus behaves. That's what G17 plus is responsible for. G17 plus is ready to account for what he does and for what he doesn't do.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19735	I thank Mrs Plassic-Stojanovic. Mr. Markovic, you have a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19736	Mrs Plassic, we have passed the law and that law has been very restrictive. He had to be like that. You know that. You supported him. You may not have been here in Parliament, but that's the way it is. We're telling you it can't go on. I don't understand you at all. Now, to prove that we're reformers, can we even cancel their pensions? This isn't about that. This is about you applying only one method of reckoning. This method of reckoning for every pensioner in Serbia means – that is to him, for the rest of his life. That's what I'm talking about. Tomorrow Serbia can go up. What does he have to do with Serbia going up, the best? You can't answer that. Is it true that since 2009, a pensioner who has 50% consumer baskets has the chance that, under the provisions of this law, he has at least 51% of the consumer basket? Explain it to everyone here, because everyone knows that the pensioner doesn't have that chance. That's why I'm against the law. I've told you a thousand times, because that's why we're against this law. You Democrats want to honor that it is against reform. If we tell you the law is wrong, we're not against reform. What logic is that to you? What makes you think that you G17 plus have a monopoly on reform and that what you're doing is reform, and what you're not doing is not reform? As for the restructuring of the economy, where did you step away and how much? What about that NIS? You almost dropped the government and the coalition. Where's that NIS strategy? You've broken the law by force. That's why you dropped one coalition partner. One of you made up, one of the MPs is the chairman of the Management Board of the Action Fund, that's these few MPs from the SPS, and that's how you solved the problem. That's true. You didn't do what you did with the EPS. There was a strategy, it was explained, there was a public debate. The result of bad negotiation is that you do bad work. As a result, you don't have an advance strategy. You can honor us with this Bodrum affair. I have no problem with this Bodrum affair being respected. What are you going to do with all this stuff you said about each other? What do you want with the Syrian oil? That's millions. The Bodrum affair is the abuse of one card. What about falsifying the Labour Act? How much has the National Savings Bank been sold for? How much was it bought for, and how much was the National Savings Bank sold for? As this went on, what went under the grain? The sale of the National Savings Bank went on. You have a National Savings Bank called national, a world in error thinks it's national, it's Serbian, and it's private. (The Belief of Radeta, from the place: It was kidnapped national. So it's private. According to my colleague, it's been kidnapped. I don't want to be accusing myself of anything here with you, so don't take away my right to be against the law. You can't tell me the Democratic Party isn't for reforms. We are for reforms, but that doesn't mean we have to be for everything the G17 proposes. Now comes this story that we have ahead of us, and the story has started by Mr. Lalovic starting his morning presentation with incredible praises for the government of Vojislav Kostunica, for a government that is a phenomenon, because nowhere in the world does the government have such support as this government has. There's no such government anywhere. Twelve percent of political citizens rule. It's a government made up of parties that have nothing in common, and they have nothing in common ideologically. They're only held there by power, a desire for power. What do you have in common with the DSS regarding Montenegro? What do you and the DSS have in common about "Sabre"? What do you and the DSS have in common about Kosovo? What do you have in common with the SPO? You have nothing in common. You just care about the government. That's the problem with this Serbia. You've made Serbia. You took everything from us and divided it into political parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19737	Mr. Markovic, I gave you a minute, and you spoke almost four. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Plassic-Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19738	Yes, it is true, this government differs significantly from the previous one. It is true, there are certain differences and there are different views in this government. My Lord, you must know that this is the essence of the democratic process. I suppose you know that the essence of democracy is the right to differing opinions. Not everyone can think the same way as at the time of your government, when the Democratic Party only had a mandate to decide everything, and the small satellite partners were there to track it. The government of Vojislav Kostunica is a different government, it is a democratic government. We have a lot in common, and we have basic attitudes that are common. Of course there are some attitudes that differ. It's totally natural. I'll answer your pension questions. As far as pensions are concerned, it's not true that the pension is sealed. So you didn't read it right. The pension will grow, according to the cost of living. It will grow in line with the cost of living. As long as the cost of living grows, there will be pension growth. So, pensions will monitor the cost of living. The alignment will go gradually. I really don't understand what you don't understand. It's not true that the pension is sealed. The pension will grow, as will the wages. Of course it's not true that the poorest pensioners are the poorest, because I've already said that the lowest pensions are going to be bigger than they are now, because the accounting base is going to be different from the one you set up, it's going to be 25%, not smaller, like when you were counting it. Where's the guarantee that pensions will be paid? That's where the fund's gonna be sustainable. It's very simple, Mr. Markovic. So, the fund will be sustainable and pensions can be paid. There will be no debt to the pensioners, who have been created and which you have failed to resolve. The government will settle these debts and thus allow the pension not to be paid back in two months, but to pay pensions for the previous month. That's what the law says. I don't see what's going on here and what else we need to argue about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19739	The Republic was announced by Mr. Ambassador Bogoljub Pejcic. Mr. Pejcic, please wait, because Miss Natasa Jovanovic wants to speak in the Rules of Procedure. Ms. Jovanovic, please don't mention the consumer basket again, because in my mandate, the consumer basket was full, but it was a small number of products. The consumer basket can be filled, but the number of products can also be reduced. That's the experience we've had before.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19740	Mr. Angelkovic, about the consumer basket and how pensions are going to fall, were to be given first of all to Serbian Radical Party MPs. I am reporting because according to the Rules of Procedure, which has been voted by the parliamentary majority, the schedule of speakers has not been done in a business order. The Serbian Radical Party is the most numerous political party, the opposition, the only real opposition in the Serbian parliament. With so many MPs and with our decadent stand, not only when this law is at stake, which is truly murderous for pensioners, both these current and future ones, as well as for all the legal proposals we are against, we could not in this way... Of course, Mr. Angelkovic, you were not the creator of this list, nor am I blaming you, nor is Mr. Markovic, who only chaired the morning session, but only Predrag Markovic or the service that did so. We couldn't be treated like this on the speaker list. What's going on? I must remind the citizens of Serbia that the debate in the absence of Minister Dinkic, who told something he wanted and what he had, in his manner, gone, has a lot of work to do, that the mud continues, to continue with its hohstuplers, to then at the arrival of Lalovic and his replicas to expose only one Serbian Radical Party MP, who was able to come to the turn to speak tonight at 15 minutes to 20.00 hours. Members of the SRS have found themselves on this list in the statement of parliamentary groups that are against, such as our parliamentary group, in the situation that, as the most numerous parliamentary group, they are waiting, as if we are some of these foreigners from Kostunica's government, not the most numerous party in the Serbian parliament, in turn, so we are waiting for the last wagon. Where it was that the strongest wait for a word or that they should speak at the end of five Serbian Radical Party MPs, only because the list of those who are now limited to Serbian radicals. That's not normal at all. It is not possible to treat the strongest parliamentary group in this way. Look at the Rules of Procedure and you will see that the schedule of speakers was not done in the right way, especially because some MPs from the ruling structure, or what is called the Government, or what is supported by the Republic Government, spoke out of order; because of the lack of one or give up, two speakers happened to be from the ruling party, or one who supports this law, and then waiting for Momir Markovic to speak and state the position of the Serbian Radical Party for 40 minutes. Let us, as the parliamentary group that has the most to say about this, present the most arguments in favour of our claim that this law is not good and that it will reverse economic flows, that it will destroy pensioners in Serbia and those who are due to retire in the coming years, we speak as this chamber rulesmen predict it, not spend all day in mutual accusations of those who have all come out of the same kitchen. Now you need to measure here who's a bigger thief than you are. It's not. Serbian radicals, MPs who have received the highest confidence of citizens and who will certainly get the highest trust in the future elections, and pensioners, both unemployed and those who need help, have something to say, unlike you, with hollow and empty stories. You who support the law, with an argument that you cannot be sure for yourself that it is correct, as Mladjan Dinkic today did not know how much of the transfer in percentages from the republican budget to the PIO Fund – 40%, is not, but is 60%, a moustache here, so what do people expect? Be assured that because of this relationship to the most numerous parliamentary group (and once it has been held by one of the ruling structures, I think we will use every opportunity, both by amendment and by extension, whenever it is, to tell you that the law is not good and to make valid arguments and what this consumer basket contains, and what will be a rapper to determine pensions for the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19741	I thank Miss Jovanovic. The Serbian Radical Party has 59 minutes left. The word is from Mr. Pejcic, for the replica. You've got three minutes, Mr. Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19742	My young colleague Markovic told a bunch of lies without blushing. Maybe that's because it belongs to one party that's different colors, but it doesn't matter. He said I was, like, rewarded by the Serbian government. I can tell him, from this place – Mr Markovic, I am not rewarded, I am offended. Because that's the function I've been given for free, that's one of the few boards of directors that hasn't been paid. No member of the Management Board of the Action Fund, nor have I, his president, been paid. As for our support for Vojislav Kostunica, I can tell you that we are honored to support the government of Vojislav Kostunica, especially Vojislav Kostunica, whom we consider the most honest politician for the last 60 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19743	I thank you, Mr. Pejcic. Otherwise, according to international status, Mr. Pejcic, the Democratic Party belongs to the red color, so that's not disputed. Mr. Markovic has a replica, to be exact, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19744	I respect Mr. Pejcic too much, as a longtime political fighter, and I have no intention of addressing him the way he spoke to me. I don't see what I lied about. So it's no secret for the citizens of Serbia or anyone. Mrs. Cekovic got a certain position, you got a certain position. Who's talking about paying that position? I think one other party has arranged the position of director of one of the companies to be separated. It's a public matter. Everyone knows it's done. The paper said it was done. You are simply, like so far, dealing with what would be said in the people. That's how you made the ministries, that's how you made everything else. So now you're preparing the ministry for the two MPs you took from us, from our list, for the Members of Sulaiman Ugljanin. By yesterday, you all were upset that they were from Sulejman Ugljanin, and now – great to support the government of Vojislav Kostunica. And you'll give them something. Okay, that's the policy you're running. Your general policy is based on that way to patch up the holes. Do you think the government of Zoran Zivkovic couldn't have "stealed holes" in that way? I'll give this one to that one, this action fund, right here, over there. So, Mr. Pejcic, I didn't lie to you. You've won a seat at the Action Fund. Whether you think you're rewarded or not, I don't know, but that's a function that's definitely significant, and it's coming along the political line. I don't know why you got so excited about it. I have to look back on this too, Mrs. Plassic, is it true that if in 2009, the pension is 100 dinars, the consumer basket is 150, the cost of life increases, and the consumer basket is 300 dinars over time, is it true that the pension will be 200, that it can never grow more and that the one who then had so many percentages of the consumer basket can never have more? You didn't answer that, or you did, you admitted that. Only in the first four years will it be the reckoning we adopted, which is to apply two criteria: and the increase in the cost of life and the increase in earnings. It is true, in 2009, only the system is moving – the increase in the cost of life. So that's true and you've confirmed it. That's why we can't vote for this law, because it needs to be announced to pensioners in Serbia – gentlemen of pensioners, who today, and probably in practice will be worse, has money for half the consumer basket, will have so much while he's alive. He'll never have more unless he gets the lottery. It's the essence of the story, there's no hope. We can't vote for a law that takes away hope. You do it again if this isn't true. So, from 2009, it's 100% so, by 2009, it's a transitional period. As for the mention of our time, dear gentlemen, I would be happy that the great government of Vojislav Kostunica, which is so proud of Mr. Pejcic... But I don't remember he was so proud of that government when the first convictions were made for the crimes at the Ibarian magistrateal. You're not so proud of that government, and now I see, you're proud of the honesty of Vojislav Kostunica. There you go. Just be proud. There's no problem. Let me tell you something about that 2000-2003 period and the consumer basket. When we came to power, DS with everyone else who did DOS at the time, the consumer basket needed 2.2 average earnings. When we left power, it took 0.9. Repeat that score in half, repeat some of the results that were made from 2000 to 2003, in half, because I admit half of some objective circumstances, loans, our position, you'll be very successful. You know what's sad, just to tell you: what, by these indicators, the chance after the rule of Vojislav Kostunica that any government in Serbia in any longer period repeats such a leap, such growth in such a short time is really very small, we all know that here. It's a growth that was definitely interrupted that tragic March of 2003. Therefore, the results of the work are clear. You will present your results to the citizens when the elections come. We will illustrate what we have done. We'll probably fight over the affair, and we'll tell you who yours are, who they belong to. Everyone's gonna put out their own program. We'll see what it's gonna be like. But what I said remains, you said nothing different from what I said, which is that pensioners should be told that this law means it – who is now poor remains for the rest of their lives. I will always be against such a loss of hope.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19745	I thank you, Mr. Markovic. Please read the existing law. Under the existing law for five years, the pension would be exactly 200 dinars, if the consumer basket is 300, because 50% of the salary and 50% of the cost of life, according to the existing law that was replaced in 2001. It is true, according to the 2001 law, there would be 100 dinars now, 300 in four years. Here you go, Mr. Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19746	I'm sorry, I don't usually run with any controversy, but I just want to say that in the day of the publication of the Official Journal, when I was appointed president of the Management Board of the Action Fund, the same day as the member of the Management Board of the Faculty of Drama Arts was appointed Dragan Gilas, a member of the Democratic Party. I don't understand it then, if I was privileged, whose settlement was and who was guessing with whom. Therefore, Mr Markovic, I would ask you, if you are already accusing this government as you accuse it, to clarify how it is possible that many functions of the Republic and of the boards, where you are all in power, as is possible in such a government of Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-15-0.u19747	You mean that Dragan Gilas, the head of the National Office? I don't think Mr. Markovic's five minutes is enough, and I don't think he'd accept it now for five minutes. Therefore, pursuant to Article 85, due to the importance of the agenda point, we continue at 10.00 p.m. on Monday.
