ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22030	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 91 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 92 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than 1/3 of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Miodrag Stamenkovic. We continue to work and move on to a joint search on proposals for legislation from the agenda under points 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle search on drafts of the agenda under points 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. We move on to a common principle search of the 6-10th agenda: – PROPOSALS ON HEALING OBJECTIVES, SERBIA Red Cross, COMMENTS OF PARENTS, SUSIDENTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DRUGS AND HEALTH PROTECTION Does the representative of Prof. Dr. Tomica Milosavljevic, Minister of Health want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22031	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today there are several important laws on the agenda of the Serbian Parliament that regulate the area of health protection of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The reasons for the adoption of these several laws, including the three health insurance laws, the health care law, and the health care chamber law, are actually three system laws that significantly alter the organisation of healthcare in Serbia. In addition, the law on the Red Cross of Serbia fills an empty space. I will try to explain today at the beginning of the debate in principle how important this regulation is. The fifth law is a law on substances that can be used in the production of intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances, or, in short, the precursor law, which is also significant. The reasons for the adoption of a new health insurance law are: above all, the need to bring the population's constant growing needs for the use of health care and to ensure the sustainability of the health system - institutional and financial; to bring health needs into line with our real opportunities, to bring public spending in the area of health care into line with the real opportunities of society in general. Then, to preserve the intergenerational reciprocity and solidarity of all citizens of Serbia in the area of health security, regardless of gender, age, material opportunities and to cover the largest number of citizens in compulsory health insurance, as an institution that we have developed decades ago. Then, the need to make the budget of the Republic of Serbia, but also the means of the employer, i.e. the insurance company, providing funds for protection and other compulsory health insurance rights, in order to make the system sustainable, in which the participation of the state (for those who do not have their own income), as well as individuals and employers, forms the basis for the provision of solidarity. Of course, it is necessary for our legislation, after several years of persistent work to improve the situation and conditions for treatment, and for those who use health services and for those who provide them, to be in line with the high standards of the developed world, in particular the European environment. I must say in the course of this initial exposure that from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, if we look at programmes financed by the budget, which are programs of general interest, the equipment of health institutions, the health care of the most sensitive persons who do not have their own income, let's say, for the equipment of health institutions, if observed in 2001, were provided ten times more funds in 2005. However, the means, hard and concrete moves are not all necessary; in 2005, it is the year in which previous experiences must be summed up and the rules fixed, to bring some new, of course, based on our decades-old experience. The creation of competition in the introduction and organisation of voluntary health insurance which can be carried out not only by the Republic Health Insurance Office, but also by other insurance companies involved in insurance. Also, a gradual deconcentration of powers from the level of the Republic Health Insurance Institute to branches, the transfer of certain powers in the implementation of the compulsory health insurance system to branches, in order to further implement the reform of the mandatory insurance system, when real financial opportunities are created, decentralisation in the organisation and provision of compulsory health insurance. New solutions have been proposed to ensure, implement, organise and implement health insurance, of which they are most important: to specify the principles on which compulsory health insurance is organised, in particular to ensure solidarity and equal availability, no matter how much money a person has in his pocket. The circle of insurance insurance is arranged in a more precise way, i.e. a single-based insurance system, as well as the establishment of a far-reaching base of compulsory insurance, and it is established that persons older than 65, unable to work independently and achieve income, are provided with compulsory health insurance from the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget. The current status of unsecured persons actually does not exist in the new law. Insurance companies are all citizens of Serbia for whom the contribution to compulsory health insurance is provided, either on the basis of employment, either on the basis of a number of other ways, including current unsecured persons, have been avoided and exiled, for which the Republic of Serbia provides comprehensively mandatory health insurance for all citizens. Also, there is a possibility for persons not covered by compulsory insurance to be involved in this insurance. Equipped insurance undertakings with regard to the type of rights to be provided to them under compulsory insurance. Also, a previous health insurance training was introduced. More precisely, the right to the health care of insured persons is governed by the means of compulsory insurance. The rights to be guaranteed by insured persons by means of compulsory health insurance are precisely laid down. An obligation has been made for the Republic Health Insurance Office to adopt an annual health care plan and health insurance plan to be provided to insured persons in one year, with prices of health services from so-called services. mandatory insurance packages. In order to represent the principle of equality and equal availability for highly specialised and expensive health services, waiting lists have been introduced, which are not only in order of arrival but also in complex criteria. It is based on the fact that the Government can adopt an act which, under special circumstances, exercises compulsory insurance rights which are provided as a priority in relation to other rights to insured persons, and also a state guarantee for the implementation of the obligations of the Republic Health Insurance Office in respect of emergency medical assistance and health care provided in stationary institutions, which is identified as a priority under this law. The use of protection abroad has been identified in cases of emergency medical assistance, but it is found that these persons are voluntarily provided to ensure that they and their family are entitled to greater scope and content during their stay abroad. The right to profit from compulsory health insurance funds is in line with changes in labour law. One of the main areas of public spending savings is the reduction of the cost of inaccessible large levels of funds that are otherwise given for payment during sick leave. The right to compensation for transport costs for insurance and family members is reserved when using outside the branch protection. The right to compensation in the event of death of a person who has executed the funeral, given that this right does not constitute a right of health insurance, or in parallel legislation, is not provided by means of compulsory health insurance, but the right is reserved from the budget and from the funds of local self-government for persons receiving social assistance. The identification of the characteristics of the insurance undertaking, as well as of the insured persons, shall be carried out on the basis of the information to be introduced, under this law, in the parent records. The chosen physician is a basic professional medical authority in the process of exercising insurance rights, which manages the process of using these rights, introducing a newspaper in the use of healthcare with the ultimate goal of providing health care quality, i.e. complete care of the health condition of the insured persons. This reduces costs, i.e. repairing the management of health care costs. More specifically, the powers of the medical committees are regulated. Contracting health services from compulsory insurance funds with service providers has been set on the principle of equality, both with health institutions whose founder is a republic, i.e. an autonomous province, or a municipality or city, and with the founders of private offices and other forms of health work, thus giving priority to the conclusion of the contract between the RZZ and health institutions to medical institutions accredited by the competent authority. Arbitration has been arranged to resolve disputes, which previously occurred. The contract conclusion control shall be carried out through the introduction of authorised insurance supervisors. Significant newspapers have been introduced into the financing of compulsory insurance. A decision on the amount of funds to be transferred to branches for the performance of the legal functions laid down by the Republic Bureau shall be made for each financial year, depending on the financial opportunities of the Institute, or in accordance with the financial plan of the Republic Institute for a certain financial year, and the Government shall give its consent to this act. The budget provides funds for persons who do not have their own income, thus obtaining the property of necessarily insured persons. A condition has been created for persons involved in compulsory own funds insurance to be provided a contribution in accordance with the law governing the contribution to compulsory social security. The branches are given greater authority; supervision of the work of the Republic Institute by the Ministry of Health Affairs has been prescribed. Voluntary health insurance is introduced on the principle of equal opportunities for providing this type of insurance, both from the Republic Institute and from other insurance companies. So, the Health Insurance Act is a series of new solutions based on previous experience and systemically relies on the other two laws of this, conditionally stated, package of laws today. The Health Protection Act is an important system regulation. The reasons for the adoption of the new law, since the last adopted in March 1992, with many changes in previous years, are: in the meantime the growing needs of the population are conditioned by the growth of general and health culture, by extending the life span and by increasing the number of older people (who suffer and use health care more often than other groups), by unfavourable movements in the environment and work environment. Then, health care and health care costs are constantly increasing worldwide and are largely in line with the material opportunities of all societies, rich and poor. In order to overcome such a discrepancy, there is virtually no country in Europe that does not actually carry out a continuous process of reforming the health system. The difficulties in the functioning of the system were also potentiated by weaknesses within the systems specifically related to: centralisation, carried out in previous years, in the establishment and exercise of founding rights in the public health sector, in the state health sector and centralisation of funds and decisions; too many prescribed types of specialisation and absence of a planic approach in their approval, leading to an increase in the number of specialities in all institutions and the penetration of many specialities at different levels of the organisation, sometimes without socio-medical and economic justification; often intolerant differences in personnel security of the population and individual health institutions. To overcome many problems in the organization, this law proposes new solutions. Closer is the division of responsibilities in the achievement of healthcare; patients' rights are defined in almost a quarter to a third of the legal solutions, according to European accepted documents on the protection of patients' rights. A change has been made in the organisation of health services – it is proposed to separate health centres to the homes of health and general hospitals, i.e. the organisation of a pharmacy as a pharmacy that can have several organisational units in its composition. New forms of private practice have been proposed to streamline the current form of the organisation. The organisation of activity at the primary, secondary and tertiary level is proposed. Decentralisation has been carried out in the organisation through the transfer of founding rights over certain types of health institutions to local self-government (municipality, city) and autonomous provinces. More precisely, the effectiveness of health institutions and private practices is regulated. The concept of equal conditions regarding the establishment of institutions, regardless of the founder, legal or natural person, is represented. It is proposed to introduce a concept of continuous improvement in the quality of healthcare, as well as quality control of healthcare and accreditation of institutions and programmes of continuous education. The work of healthcare professionals, as well as the process of issuing, renewing and withdrawing a licence for the independent work of healthcare professionals, is being organised closer. The law proposed the establishment of expert bodies at the level of the Republic of Serbia: the health council of Serbia, the ethical board of Serbia and the republican expert committees. The law makes it clear that sectoral laws will be passed after the entry into force of the health care law: blood transfusions, protection of the rights of mentally ill persons, the taking and transplantation of human body parts, biomedically assisted fertilisation, medical records, public health. Decisions relating to the work of traditional medicine that will regulate this area in a way that provides for the protection of patients in the application of traditional medicine. It is proposed that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopt a health care strategy for Serbia as the basis for planning, development and organisation in this area. A number of other solutions have been proposed to improve the organisation and functioning of the service, i.e. the work of health institutions and private practices, as well as the work of health workers, i.e. associates. As one of the main reasons for the adoption of this law, decentralisation in the organisation and management of health services, and especially at the primary level, is one of the most important aspects of reforming the system. It is considered justified for improving the protection of the population, in ensuring better allocation of resources according to needs, and especially at the primary level of health care, including the wider community - local self-government in making decisions on priorities in the system and reducing inequalities in the provision of health needs. However, decentralisation in the health care system in all countries that have approached decentralisation is a very complex enterprise, more difficult than in the social sectors of other species, given the sensitivity and dependence of the health care system on all other elements and factors in society: from regional development, finance, the health status of the population. There is not one unique model of decentralisation that would be applicable everywhere, but decentralisation is adapted to the specific conditions of each country, as well as the situation found in the organisation of health services, the habits of the population. The proposed solutions accepted a model of decentralised design, which is based on the organisation's theory and in practice of the largest number of countries, there are elements of the health care system that cannot be decentralised, which represent the responsibility of the national, central, republican level. This is the establishment of a basic health policy framework with objectives to be achieved within the appropriate deadlines. It is a monitoring, evaluation and analysis of the health status of the population and the safety of the population of health care. This is also the adoption of strategic decisions on the development of the necessary resources in the health system, in particular resources related to health infrastructure (the health care institution network plan), as well as human resources: number and type of employees, number and type of specialisation and narrow specialization. In addition, the issue of certificates of importance for the performance of health work, both health professionals and associates, and health institutions and private practices throughout the territory of the Republic, which is the issue of a licence for self-execution, i.e. the issue, renewal or withdrawal of a licence, and the accreditation of health institutions, inspection supervision. At national level, financial resources must be provided for the implementation of the general interest programme in healthcare. Also, at a national, republican level, financial supervision of the implementation of healthcare, or pharmaceutical health care, must be ensured. The proposed solutions in this law, in the decentralisation section, rest on forward-defined objectives, or functions that cannot and should not be decentralisationd because of their specificity. However, the proposed solutions in this law are fully in line with the solutions already adopted by the National Assembly by the Law on Local Self-Government, as well as the Law establishing certain competences of the Autonomous Province. The law on health care workers’ chambers is an expression of the need to establish a legal basis in a comprehensive way for the establishment of chambers as independent professional organisations of doctors of medicine, dentistries, graduate pharmacists, graduate pharmacists of medical biochemistry and medical specialists of clinical biochemistry, as well as nurses and health technicians. The establishment of a chamber creates conditions for establishing higher professional standards in the exercise, then conditions for protecting patients' rights from unconscious treatment, conditions for greater disciplinary responsibility for healthcare professionals, conditions for better and continuous education. The chamber actually receives significant public authority, which is an independent and independent functioning in the process of issuing, renewing or withdrawing a license for independent work. The bill on opiate precursors and psychotropic substances is a significant regulation and the main purpose is to prevent the abuse or use of substances that are considered precursors to obtain intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances. There are several international conventions that commit our country to very precise regulation of this area. The regulation is made up of close co-operation with the authorities of the MUP, Interpol, international associations. The adoption of this law will create conditions for continued co-operation with the International Drug Control Biroom and an international programme for the control of intoxicating drugs, which should and should contribute to the effective repression of illicit drug trafficking and psychotropic substances. This is the beginning of an important legal arrangement of this area. The law on the Red Cross of Serbia is proposed for the basic reason that the position and authority of the Red Cross of Serbia comply with the changes made in the development of the International Red Cross Movement and the Red Crescent, which belongs to the Red Cross of Serbia, and with the social changes created in Serbia-Montenegro. On the one hand, the double position of the Red Cross as an independent, voluntary and humanitarian organisation and the work of the national society of the Red Cross of Serbia-Montenegro, and on the other hand, the law clearly determines the position, rights and obligations of the Red Cross as an auxiliary body of government in the humanitarian area. It is also one of the requirements stemming from the international position of the Red Cross of Serbia. In order for him to be internationally recognised, it is necessary that his country recognises him and accepts him as an auxiliary authority in the humanitarian area, as the only organization of the Red Cross in the country. The law is a clear and precise legal basis for the operation of the Red Cross of Serbia, providing it with the position of an independent and humanitarian organisation, which is also the auxiliary body of the government in the humanitarian area, since it has important public powers relating to first aid programmes and programmes of popularity and voluntary blood donation. In carrying out its work, the Red Cross of Serbia helps all people without discrimination on any basis. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am convinced that we are all together aware of the importance of making these legal decisions in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Health, after a period which has not yet completed two full years, has enough arguments for all of you to support the adoption of these solutions and to actively participate in their repairs, which has already happened through the amendment debate. In fact, to make this a real conclusion, on the one hand, of the great effort of healthcare professionals to better define regulations and to put more into place a scale that they have to skip in all regulations so that the healthcare organisation has better effects for each of us as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, because we have earned it. The health care system rests on experiences that are numerous, rich, which bind us. We don't start from scratch, and we don't have the right to build towers in the air. These legal solutions come from the fact that any reform of the health system, if it wants to be successful, designed and serious, must start from what you have and make better on that basis, including the efforts of everyone. When I say the efforts of everyone, it is not a phrase, because healthcare is not an isolated system, it is not an island and is not the only one responsible for Serbia's citizens' health. Before I finish this opening debate, I want to thank you for voting the tobacco law, which you clearly showed the direction in which the country will move in the coming years. We have to stop smoking this much because two-thirds of people are dying of tobacco-related diseases. A dinar from the pack, marking and strict regulations that you have brought shows that the MPs of the Republika Srpska Assembly are aware that the health system and the Ministry of Health and the minister must not be the island and the part that cares, as a drawer in the state administration, about the health of citizens. There's a responsibility for everyone. You've shown it in the best way possible so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22032	Do the officials of the committees want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger of Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22033	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, I have a very unpleasant duty for me to, as chairman of the Health Committee, establish certain facts that cannot serve on the honor of the Committee on Health and not on this House as a whole. Today we are discussing an extremely important set of five health laws, three of which are system laws. However, what happened to the situation (and some of these circumstances could have been prevented), we are having a limited discussion today. This, for the sake of the public, must be said clearly and openly, the Health Committee has failed to discuss the amendments addressed to the system laws. The Health Committee has no amendment to the government, no response from the government, and we are in charge of an open debate. This is becoming a sectrossed parliament today, and this is the beginning today, probably, of tyranny, when it comes to legislative procedures in the Serbian Parliament. Please, two things have to be said. When a united debate is being conducted on five laws, and of which three laws are systemic, it is an outrageous precedent in all parliaments of civilized countries. This would make it completely impossible to deliver the opposite opinion that, when radicals are at stake, and I believe other MPs, is not in the function of obstruction, but exclusively that through the exchange of views and counterargumentation, the best solutions for an extremely important set of laws that this Parliament needs to pass. Please, let me get this straight. At the 27th session of the Health Committee, which I scheduled on September 20th and put on the agenda system laws, health care law and chamber law, where Mr. Minister was present and with my team, I presented the laws, the Committee, i.e. The position refused to make a statement on those laws, which he also warned the minister that it was not correct, that he was coming, that we were talking, that we were discussing, that we were not making a decision. What happens next? A famous 7 October meeting in parliament, where most of the Committee is not present, the president of the Committee has not been informed, the president of the Assembly opens a meeting and, beyond that, a public statement, which reads - the DSS Health Committee has rejected corrupt laws. It is said further – on the round table held in the Serbian Assembly of Health Committee DSS on October 7th, the opinion was that the draft health care law and the bill on health care workers' chambers from the assembly procedure should be withdrawn. Who said that? Arguing the basic documentation of this position of the Health Committee, rapporteur Dr Vukasin Canak, a colleague, I do not know, at the meeting I was not present, a doctor from Novi Sad, stated that the drafts of the laws mentioned were in public debates, but that they did not get a positive opinion. I won't read any more. You can find this on the website, the whole document. Please, immediately after that, I schedule the 28th session of the Health Committee, with a proposal to discuss, among other things, and to make a decision on the two system laws that have been informed by the Minister and which have been standing in the Assembly for six months. Here, I will now read the minutes – on Miroljub Maric's proposal to withdraw the 3rd and 4th points from the proposed agenda, most votes (six for, two against and one abstention) were removed from the statement on the law. I warned that we would come to a time teat, that we wouldn't have time to discuss it. The record is here and my warning has been found in writing, the record has been regularly adopted. What was the solution and what did the Committee take as an attitude? That it is necessary to wait for the budget law and to discuss all this in the package and that the debate should begin when this package comes to the agenda. We respected the will of the majority, we received a call that we received and called on the 29th session for Tuesday 15th November, amendments to the laws that were given in the ordinary procedure and they could until Saturday at 10.00 hours to surrender and had no purpose to argue earlier and I considered it logical. All day (Monday) the service had arranged amendments that had been given to her since 10.00 on Monday and then we could discuss it on Tuesday. The debate was suspended because of the vote in the assembly, so due to objective circumstances and we couldn't work. The work has been suspended and the session is scheduled for tomorrow. What's going on? The next day, a debate was held in a way that, on a proposal by the parliamentary majority, the minister was also heard with views on the insurance and debate law being interrupted. We find, quite accidentally, that the work of the Assembly is being extended until the final set of laws is exhausted and that we will speak today. So it is clear that no regular parliamentary procedure is respected here when such laws are passed. From this place I ask primarily the Prime Minister of Kostunica, then the president of the Markovic Assembly not to play with the health of the Serbian people and other peoples living here. Systemic laws in a criminal manner like this have not yet been recorded. If you're going to stand behind it, the Serbian people will remember that for you. Why am I saying that? This is not my assessment, that legislative procedures cannot be passed in this way. It hurried the legislator to urgently pass this law and he imported it in one unencumbered way with the budget, and we will clearly explain, because there is nothing to do with the budget of the system laws, that it is one game and we will expose it to the end. The World Bank, we know, received information that she sent you a letter from Mrs. Caroline, I don't know her name, the director of the representation here and she said to you: "Since the Ministry of Health would like to move ahead quickly on the finalization... "and then he says there, you translate now, because there are language experts here. She told you this nicely and told you four things: firstly, the high speed of finalization. Second, a huge benefit package inappropriate by means, she told you. There are no instruments to increase efficiency and curb prices. There's no internal control, and that generates corruption. That's what they told you. They told you you didn't do what you did financially well, you didn't see if you could cover it, this package of yours, financially. I know exactly, I've seen the letter, I don't have it, and it can be relocated to his property. You'll say if that's not true. Now the finals, the Assembly and the malversions we're used to. The proposal of the G17 Plus Parliament Group, I believe it's out of ignorance, I don't believe it's out of intent. I don't think the colleague who signed this here wanted this on purpose. I don't blame my colleague, I blame the leadership of the assembly. It's going on a joint principle search, and then there's a set of these financial laws, and then there's this one of ours, and it's not listed as an emergency insurance law. I point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure and then the exhibition to the left, to the right, to the tralala, to the joke, to the joke, to the no, we thought we would, we won't, it turns out it doesn't matter, it's so random. It can't be like this in a procedure, like this, uniting these five points together. What's far more important, I'm obliged to read you the next letter. The Society of the Doctors of Vojvodina points to my name and to the Committee on 11.11. The following letter: "Dear Mr Momchilov, please, as chairman of the Committee on Health and Family of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, meet the MPs with the views of the Association of Doctors of the Serbian Medical Society, who were presented in public debates held in the Assembly of Vojvodina, organised by the Minister of Health of the Republic of Serbia. The Doctors' Society of Vojvodina of the Serbian Doctor's Society, following public debates, has fundamental objections to all the three system laws in the field of health, which we delivered in writing to the President of the State, the Prime Minister and all ministers. The remarks concern the discriminatory, monopolitical, centralistic and high-corruption potential of the provisions, which is in line with the opinion received in discussions by OSCE representatives, Transparency International and the government's Anti-Corruption Council. Frankly, for me and our radicals, it's relevant to this last one, but it's in this memo, and I'm obliged to read this too. "The proposals for system laws in the area of health that will be discussed in the form presented have been completely rejected by the expert public of the AP Vojvodina, as none of the essential remarks given to them has been adopted. With warm greetings, signed by the president of the Health Reform Council of the Doctors' Society of Vojvodina Primaryius Dr Branislav Kardaševic." I've got ten minutes at my disposal, I won't use any more. I'm going to use my own opinion, so I'm going to continue, I'm not going to abuse this pay phone, and then I'm going to continue the argument to see what professional and relevant professional organisations say about the draft of these laws. I warn you once again: this is the end of parliamentaryism, here normal work of the Health Committee is not allowed. Why? I don't want to get into the motives of my colleagues from the position, who didn't want to provide the quorum yesterday, although I have to be correct in order to say that my DSS colleagues were present all the time, they spent all day with us radicals, hoping that we might still be able to express ourselves in such an inadequate way to our amendments. I'm sorry, Mrs. Liver Dacin was also present with us the whole time. They didn't regret the effort or the obligations they had, and we know that yesterday was also a religious holiday and that many had to cancel it, too. For now, that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22034	National MP Predrag Mijailovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22035	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the sake of truth, I must say, since I am chairman of the DSS Health Committee, Mr. Canak Vukasin performed at that session, or on the round table, and he just gave the DSS's position that the DSS wants and wants to discuss the laws, the whole set, that under number one must enter the health insurance policy procedure, which is fundamental and beyond the other system laws. It was the DSS's position, not to reject the laws. It's just doing the truth and making a normal coalition relationship. It is our position that has been and remained and therefore we are now normally taking part in the debate on all laws, both amendments and in other things, and we will try to amend these laws as well as possible, and that is fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22036	Do the MPs who issued an opinion at the meetings of the Committee on Health and Family when considering the bill want a word? Yeah. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22037	I said we had taken the stand, MPs of the Serbian Radical Party. The first reason is certainly the one that I have already stated – that there is a debate here, that is being debated here, that hastens itself here with the adoption of the law. We'll see what kind of discussion will be, if she confirms what I'm saying. What I can say is that the SRS will vote against the proposed laws. The will of most professional associations and trade unions is not respected. Systemic laws are not reformal, and newspapers and the way they are brought are merely preserving the existing poor state of health, and this poor condition is characterized by increased mortality and disease, high levels of corruption, inaccessibility of health professions to population categories, irrational spending of funds and the implementation of completely non-transparent projects suspected of corruption. We're going to prove that, of course, in the discussion of details, every point of what we've said here. The Health Protection Act and the Insurance Act are too extensive, with many unnecessary and declarative members. Both laws, along with the chamber law, further promote the centralisation of the minister's power and give him a series of unnecessary powers. All three of these laws are fully discriminated against by the private health sector. A number of sub-legislative solutions will have to be used to standardise a number of other uncovered healthcare areas. Basically, system laws are not healthy, but more disease laws and disease laws. The law on chambers does not worry about the interests of doctors, dentists, pharmacists and health professionals of secondary education, but rather about trying to impose unnecessary, expensive, additional control of health workers. He doesn't talk to any of his members about the rights of a doctor. Systemic laws reflect and maintain the monopoly of the state health sector, which is unacceptable for the transition society, and especially for those who say they are Democrats and want to go to Europe. It's a shame that radicals tell you that you don't know that the best form of decentralisation is in terms of transition and weak institutions of the legal system of privatisation. It's the alpha and omega everyone knows. Systemic laws are a generator of corruption, especially a member of the 199th Health Protection Act, and these solutions – a poorly defined and financially unsustainable package of services and by focusing on cutting public spending, the insurance law, I think, is completely disregarded by the social care of citizens. Here I will promote the only two objectives that can be relevant to any doctor and any country health care in transition. First, the preservation of the biological integrity of the nation, which is seriously threatened by both the white plague and the diseases and the mortality, which is clearly evidenced by numerical data and we will prove it in the discussion of details. Second, social justice. He's got to worry, and you're in health care. We're going to give you a picture (a laugh from G17 plus, it's funny) of poverty, we're going to give you a picture of our population being received and then we're going to give you other documents from the World Bank telling you whether the social component should be ignored or not. The Red Cross Act, through an emphasised insistence on the transfer of public authority to a republican organisation, is important for the nation's vital interests, raises the issue of voluntary blood donation, and invades other important competences of the federal state, and therefore we will not vote in favour of this law. Just one explanation: when it comes to war conflict, then the state is in charge, the military is in charge of war victims and all, and that's the jurisdiction of the federal state. We are not going to transfer the essential powers of a state under public authority. The law on intoxicating substances is a necessary and necessary law, on which we have no fundamental objections. Thank you, I've been shorter than five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22038	The People's Messenger Goran Cvetanovic has the word, and the People's Messenger Milet Poscurica should be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22039	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's perfectly understandable when an MP of your position, especially when it comes to a health associate, proposes to be a joint principled search of five laws. It's absolutely inappropriate for only five hours to be discussed, but as a colleague, I have an understanding when it comes to a health associate to suggest that such a set of laws be discussed jointly. I do not understand the behaviour of the health minister, because it is a relapse of the former DOS government, which holds lessons and political marketing at the Committee's session, arguing that representatives of the SRS do not politically appreciate. Given that the health minister is still from the former DOS government, I will remind him that his vice-president of the Republic government, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, did not allow SRS MPs to discuss the work of the government, because we as an opposition did not vote for the composition of such a government, so we have no moral right to discuss it. Analyzingly, the health minister started with us, as representatives of the opposition, to support the proposed laws in the principle debate and then to have the moral right to submit amendments. Since we are against the proposed laws, we have no moral right to submit amendments, because that way we obviously don't use ourselves. As long as the health minister was professionally expressing his opinion, I appreciated his personal integrity, but when he started with political marketing, I absolutely must say that we, as representatives of the SRS, do not appreciate him politically. As members of the Health Committee, we gave guidance to the Minister at the first session, where we proposed a proposal for conclusions of the Committee on Health and Family of the National Assembly, on the state of health and health care strategy in Serbia. I will remind him that only at yesterday's session were members of the Committee who had critical reference to these proposed laws. I'll only quote one of them. Dr. Vladan Vukicevic said that "The bill on health care, in fact, makes the difference between the private and state sectors, despite the declaration that it establishes the same conditions for both sectors". He believes that many members of the Health Protection Law bill point to private degradation compared to the social sector. For example, conditions are laid down for closing private practice, but not state institutions, as well as for certain legal solutions to affect the choking of private practice. He also made remarks concerning Article 199, which regulates the additional work of healthcare professionals, saying that an explicit provision on the punishment of unregistered practice should be introduced into the law. I guess it's more appropriate for the representatives of the position to criticise the proposed laws, and then vote for them, and less morally, say in the beginning that we are against this bill and that we are voting in accordance with our presentation. Representatives of the Serbian Radical Party had only a few principle remarks in yesterday's discussion. First of all, what many health institutions have made objections is that the draft health care law, with a significant remark being made before the health care strategy and with a general assessment that it suffers from inconsistencies and contradictions, does not provide real answers to the challenges and problems in the health care system. It has been pointed out that significant objections to the draft laws primarily gave the Society of the Doctors of Vojvodina, that the drafts are anti-reformal, that they are the basis for corruption and conflicts of interest of privileged groups, as well as individuals. The conclusions of the Social Medicine Section of the Serbian Doctor's Society have been made that the conditions for the adoption of the proposed law are not met: a new constitution, established policy by parliament, a health strategy with the objectives of the concept of the development of the health care system, as well as the privatisation of the health sector, as well as that the draft laws must be brought into line with the Health Insurance Act. Among other things, it was noted that the Doctors' and Pharmaceuticals Union of Serbia, the Health and Social Protection Union, as well as the Association of Owners of private health institutions and other forms of health care. What is the opposition of the Serbian Radical Party above all is that the concept of system laws is state-monopolistic, without serious respect for private practice, which is socially realistic, useful and competent. Quick privatisation is needed, first of all, primary health care, where doctors would pay for productivity. The health ministry has so far not formed modern treatment protocols, which is inappropriate to the present time. Health care is now a major dissatisfaction system in which both patients and health workers are dissatisfied. (President: Time.) Please reject what I just quoted. Out of 130,000 employees, 30,000 doctors, but human resources are inefficient; there is a high percentage of sickness, primarily in non-health groups, labour services are not satisfactory, and there are salaries that I don't even talk about. Half of the patient capacities are empty because the patient units are not used rationally. The most important task had to be to find the patient at the heart of the reform and to eliminate from the health system what hurts us all, which is corruption and crime, which are our most severe and most severe disease. Not only does the minister have the support of his employees and directors, but the general population. It's not enough to start with just three or four thousand health workers retired, but to make a change in the organisation of institutions, in the education of staff and, above all, streamlining in total expenditures. The chamber should be an independent, professional organization with precise responsibilities and tasks. The proposed law does not provide the right way to realise the status, or function of the chamber. It is the proposal's obligation to consult other laws, in particular laws governing the field of working relations, the Criminal Law, so that the medical chamber does not assume powers it cannot have. In the proposed laws, there is a huge proportion between what is required of a healthcare worker, on the one hand, and the socio-economic position of those same workers, on the other. European standards, high moral principles, licences are introduced, but unfortunately Balkan salaries. Is it necessary to fire employees if there is a marked increase in leukemia in children, tuberculosis, malignant diseases, and many diseases associated with the poor social situation? Serbia's first medical chamber worked from 1923 to 1944; even then, the aims of the chamber were not to change with a change in the political party in power. The chamber regulates the relationship between doctors and patients, between doctors themselves and doctors and society, in general. The bill does not define a provision on how the chambers of different health workers function, on their respective positions. The chamber should be like a living organism, following them and adapting them to a medical profession, and eventually knowing, if you're looking for a license, will that license allow doctors to work outside our country as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22040	The word is made by MP Vladan Vukicevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22041	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for Mr Cvetanovic's mention. What I'm trying to say is that we're all mature people and we're kind of critical of watching the world around us. I'm a principled and consistent man. I've proved that before in my life. My criticism of certain parts of the law, in particular the health care law, is well-intentioned, in order to sincerely participate in work and as a man, and as an MP, and as a member of the Committee, to make certain things better. I don't think it's right for someone to go ahead without knowing how I'm going to end up defining myself according to the law, saying it's immoral to criticise, and then voting afterwards. On the board, which we were all on, I supported four laws, and I was abstaining just when I voted on the health care bill. As an MP, which is my right, I have invested certain amendments in my desire and the expectation that the minister will respond to them. I must say that I am building myself up, as a man, as an MP, and I am not speaking on behalf of the parliamentary group, but I am speaking on my own behalf – if these amendments are not accepted, not all of them, but the one most important, the most significant one, I will not vote for this health care law. It's my decision, and that's how I'm going to do it, regardless of political coincidences, because my mandate is going to pass, and I'm going to stay as a man who's going to use health care. I don't think that people who criticise everything and partyally absolutely make decisions, which is their right, have the right to go out in advance and condemn them and say that something is immoral to criticise, and then vote afterwards. That's what we're different about. Your criticism may not be well-intentioned, you want to criticize everything. You can never make an ideal law, but my criticism is quite well-intentioned. I hope the minister, in some ways, will look at it later and through my discussion and accept that amendment. If that amendment to Article 199 is accepted and the member is corrected, I will certainly vote in favour of this law. If not, I won't vote for him, regardless of the political coincidence. I say that as a man who's been in health care for a long time, of course, a man who deals in private health and worked in social health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22042	Replica, the word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22043	I disagree with the fact that there are two types of criticisms in terms of well-meaning and malice. But there are two kinds of criticisms in this congregation. It's one of us from the opposition, and the other from case to case, is one of you who voted for the government and its laws. It's not our criticism that's inconceivable because we don't want to vote for the law. So it's unwarranted according to the law, according to the fate of the law. We care not to pass any laws proposed by the government in the congregation. You care to pass. We don't have moral dilemmas here. We're looking for what's wrong with the law. You have dilemmas. Those dilemmas were also pointed out by an SRS MP. It is difficult to resist the conscience that you do not criticise bad solutions, especially the health minister's behaviour towards the National Assembly, for which it does not exist at all, and the behaviour of his political party towards the National Assembly, when it comes to this minister, because you G17 Plus gentlemen are protecting the minister by not having a session of the Committee on Health of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Is that how you're gonna protect him? So your relationship with this law is negative, but you'll vote for the law. Don't explain that to us. Your relationship with the minister's behaviour is negative, I know that, I've known you for many years. But you will vote for this law. Or maybe your voice won't be needed, so you will preserve your dignity, but you will provide a sufficient number of votes. People who don't do science, who are a successful minister, and who should have stayed in science, not politics, because good experts can't deal with politics, they go completely astray, they turn around. You can't do two jobs at the same time. So the minister's bad attitude towards the National Assembly. Voting a law without debate on boards, and your mouth is full of stories about MPs working on committees. There is no quorum provided in the Committee, because the decisions of that committee do not correspond, or perhaps the president is critical of everything the minister does; so that is the point of the National Assembly. The point of the National Assembly is to go out and praise the solution, and to go out and attack it, to get the best solution, and not to have the proposed solution voted. There is no state in a world where parliament is trying to vote on a solution proposed by the government. There isn't! Nor does that solution pass. Sometimes it's lobbys that change it, money, politics, party indiscipline, a better solution. How many times did you realize that some of the solutions we suggested were better, so you were ashamed to accept them, than we were given amendments and additions to the law after a month or two. To say that it is an unwitting criticism, which will lead to us voting against the law, and that it is a well-intentioned criticism that will lead to you still voting for the law, it makes no sense and has nothing to do with the ordinary human resolution. (President: Time.) I'm done, I'm sorry. I respect your attitude that the law is bad. I respect your position to vote for him, but don't touch us because we think he's bad and because he's bad, we don't want to vote for the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22044	Replica, the word has a folk MP, Goran Cvetanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22045	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, apparently my distinguished colleague, Dr. Government, did not understand, the criticism was not at all relevant to your position. I was just quoting from the record officially what you've defined. My criticism was directed towards the Minister of Health, as a relapse of the former DOS government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22046	Replica, MP Miroljub Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22047	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I had no intention of reporting before, given that I was an authorised representative in front of the G17 Plus party. I had no intention of reporting before the main topic, the debate on the laws. However, I am now in some way called, and I want to explain to the public a little bit. My colleagues before me said something about the Committee's obstruction, the obstruction of the work of the Assembly, that the laws were not good, very short, to return to the topic afterwards. counterpart Pai Momchilov, chairman of the Health and Family Committee, said at one point that we, as a position, are obstructing the work of the Health and Family Committee. That's not true. Yesterday, by some coincidence, it happened that we couldn't do it in the afternoon, and in the morning and until lunch break we generally adopted views on all the laws that are on the agenda, we did the amendments to the two laws that are in the procedure. We have agreed to continue the Committee and continue to work, I hope tomorrow, very successfully to complete all amendments. For today's debate, we don't need what was needed this afternoon, very forced; we all admitted that we were very tired, because there was a lot of work. So it's not right to say that we're the ones who are obstructing the Committee's work. That's not true. I can commend the special co-operation with Mr. President Momchilov, that we have worked very closely so far. On the other hand, I'd like to say something about those committees that happened before this board yesterday. It's my name I asked on one of the boards to withdraw two points from the agenda. That's right. That's what the record says. You know why? It happened because these two points that were on the agenda, the health care law and the chambers, were so discussed on committees that there was no point in discussing them anymore. I wanted to prevent, I can say responsibly, a conducting campaign against health laws, which I'm not saying they run radicals, but someone in this country, I want the public to hear, seriously, doesn't want to change in health. I don't want to qualify as a Serbian radical party or any other party. But that structure exists. Another problem is that someone wants to seriously challenge the Ministry and workers of Social Health Organizations with the private sector, which is not standing, because we are on the same task and we need to act together in the interest of the health of our citizens. I'd like to say something to Mr. Nikolic. (President: Time.) You're out for the replica. I'll stop this time. There will be time for me to answer some more questions. I think we have an important job today and we're gonna concentrate on this job. In the meantime, there will be times when we will respond to some dilemmas.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22048	The word is made by the People's Messenger of Pai Boys, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22049	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I answer since my name has been mentioned. I think what I was saying was misread. All three members of the G17 Plus Committee are extremely honest and honest people, and that's what I'm saying here. But victims are manipulations and warrants, most likely from the other side. Maybe not, maybe I was wrong. As far as my colleagues from the G17 Plus Committee are concerned, they're extremely honorable and honest colleagues, but it's quite clear that yesterday when we... So, you agree that such a pace is not sustainable, you agree that in yesterday's decision to do two points with two packages, that the debate must be concluded and that the pace for our work... It wasn't up to us. That's exactly what I resent to the Assembly, and that's why I say there's no respect for the procedure here. I repeat to the government, to the people and to you, if you have a conscience, that this is not the way to work. Understand how you will, I speak for 50,000 children with whom I was born together. I speak for a few thousand... Yes, you laugh, if you have a child, if you were born, I don't know. You may have, so you've seen it as a nice symphony and enjoyed it all, it's possible. I speak on behalf of several thousand operated women. My conscience and something that medical ethics doesn't allow me to do and do, and you laugh. You are ashamed of anything you laugh at when we point to serious failures where the state, which claims to say to itself that the rule of law, shows in this light before the public and before us the MPs. To finish the story, we were all tired, he was also a colleague of Vucicevic, a colleague of Dunjic who came back from Centa to attend the Committee. I agree we were all tired, but we didn't have another way out. We're under duress. Is that how this congregation's leadership should behave and I'm surprised that the chairman doesn't react at all to what I said at first? So, dogs bark, caravans pass, we go, Serbia goes down. It's a reality, but I'm still warning you, as a doctor, don't play with the health of the Serbian people, it's not a good health situation. You can tell fairy tales, you can say what you're saying, but that's not the situation. We'll convince you, hopefully in part, of the data you most believe in. To the European friends you trust most, we will pay the most attention, so you will hear what they tell you. You know that yesterday at lunch I tried to ask all the MPs to come; who came, who didn't, and it can't be called but an obstruction of the Committee's work when you don't have a quorum. I don't know a better word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22050	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22051	I'm reporting from the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because I find it quite inappropriate to send MPs such rebuke from the pay phone, especially if it is not done by the chairman. I have no doubt that here we all speak for the people, the citizens who supported us and, of course, I believe the previous gentleman speaks for his patients. Clearly, he has good relations with pregnant women, and that's his job. We all talk in a way on behalf of all the citizens who chose us, so on that behalf, I want to say something. I completely want to support what Mr. Tom Nikolic just said. I absolutely agree with his discussion, and it's really a great pleasure to be able to agree with him completely. Therefore, the work of the Assembly committees cannot be obstructed and it is completely irrelevant who is chairman of the board and it is completely irrelevant what decisions it makes. The job of all of us is to participate in the work of the board. I would ask everyone to check in their parliamentary groups whether they respect the rule or not, and I will tell you that the SRS is not fully involved in the work of many committees, and one of those committees is the committee to which I chair. For which these reasons are, therefore, most likely some of the above, but it is quite clear that it is a kind of attempt, although unsuccessful, obstruction of the work of the Committee on Poverty. We most often hear here that this party represents the poor, that it advocates their rights, that it is very painful if there is injury to the poor, and in the committee that is doing this is not taking part. Then we hear some random quotes, they read somewhere, someone told them the World Bank said this or that. The World Bank supports the work of the Poverty Reduction Committee, the World Bank supported a poverty reduction strategy. The SRS MPs voted against the strategy. Then please decide whether you will support the World Bank's report only when he is at your will or if you really want to hear what people on the side have to say. There are many World Bank reports that praise reforms in Serbia and of course it is their job to direct these reforms, and co-operation with the World Bank is something that our country and our government are fully working and respecting. So I call on all MPs to participate in the work of all committees, to make an active contribution, of course agreeing and not agreeing with the decisions these committees make.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22052	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22053	You told us everything, but I'd just like to light up some parts of what you said. Yes, it is, in fact, a poverty committee and it is your firm for Serbia's poverty. It's hypocritical that your firm is run by the Committee on Combating Poverty and you've called it poor. Indeed, G17 Plus is a company -- a Committee for Poverty of Serbia, for the impoverishment of Serbia. And all of our members are poor, all of our voters are poor and don't fight poverty in Serbia, because from day to day, year to year poverty is getting bigger and bigger. Our relationship with the committees is like this -- you want to rule the state, you want to rule this assembly, you have to provide a quorum for work. Whoever doesn't have a quorum can't rule. You've been lowering that quorum to the end. Now you don't need a quorum for board sessions. It's only when you need a decision to pick up in the O.R. and make a decision and come out again. Working on committees is a story that the government is launching, because it's a secret piece of work. Serbia's public doesn't know anything about it. Why do we do politics if the Serbian public doesn't know what we're doing, what do we stand for? What were they fighting to introduce TV broadcasts into the Serbian Parliament? Just because we want what we do to be available to the public. That's why working on committees is hard, agonizing. If you want to work seriously on committees, then everyone has to do it, but it's not available to the public, it doesn't bring political points. Don't lie to me about politics without thinking about political points. It's a success in politics, points. One voter over, two voters over, ten more. That's why sometimes a man feels like a schizophrenic. When she is in power, there is no criticism, when she is in power no quorum, when she is in power no TV transmission, when she is in power does not need the Constitutional Court, when in power she does not need most to make decisions, when in power can fake cards, when in power she can do anything. The moment he leaves power, his second personality appears and says – where is the Constitutional Court, how do you choose judges, where is the quorum in the Serbian Parliament, what is no transmission, what are you not attending committee sessions? It's politics. It's got to hold. Never in the world has the government criticised the opposition except in Serbia, except in Serbia, the government is not criticising the opposition anywhere. You say, your member just said -- there are those who are against health change in Serbia. What now? You're supposed to kill us for being against change? You do not say – against the change in the best, so I could feel that I was called, so that I go out and say – I want to change the better, I will not change at all, I will not change the laws that make worse decisions than the existing law. Get together from October 5th; have we brought any legal projects that were more favourable to the citizens than they were during the previous regime, which you blacked out on all your mouths? Are we one solution... Or it's health care, if it's a list of prescription medications, if it's retirement conditions, if it's work-based conditions, if it's working conditions... (President: Time.) ( ) Have we made any better solutions for the vast number of citizens than those who are rich? Talks with the World Bank, but you meet them completely and you don't ask, and you're lying down, kneeling, you're just meeting the conditions set by the IMF, the World Bank and all those officials that are coming. They won't do you the courtesy of coming from high places. Have you ever fought for a solution that was acceptable to Serbia and that you lied to them when you couldn't fight? Why did you promise them solutions that could not be implemented here in the congregation? Your head doesn't hurt because of it and you're not blushing because of it. What are you doing? There you say, "Yes, we will bring this law, and here to those you need to make the law, and you will rebel against it, lest the law be passed." Look up to the predecessor. He was thus trying to be nice to both the West and the citizens of Serbia, so it only lasted until a certain deadline. That's how it's gonna be for you. You better be honest and open and say: this Serbia will not accept us, even if it wasn't you in power, but to say this – we're going to implement this for you, and you don't have the strength in the Serbian Parliament to do it. You'll get lost in health care, and now you think you can change it that way. Ask the doctors how they'll be. Serbia knows all doctors who are MPs or who are in political parties. Every patient knows what that doctor stood for in this National Assembly. Well said Mr. Vukevic, people have to be treated regardless of the changes in power. People go to doctors regardless of the change in government, people get lucky on the streets and doctors and politicians, regardless of who's in power and who's in opposition. Everything goes on and on the year you lose the election, now, your relationship... (Chairman: Please, you've exceeded your time.) I'm sorry. The attitude of the citizens on the street towards you is in fact a measure of whether you did well or not, not a pat on the shoulders and commendation of your party colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22054	The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22055	Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to put the Committee's first agenda and events back on the last few sessions of the Health and Family Committee. So, another of the mechanisms that the government is trying to act by preventing the opposition, the real and real opposition, that in every opportunity allowed by law, which is legitimate to state its views which do not agree with the current government's proposals, as yesterday was the situation. Of course, there are a number of situations where this happened. This yesterday reflects only one of the intentions or one of the attempts of joint action, how modern it is and how you like to hear, both the Government and the Ministry, the executive authority that is in a certain way, dragging certain ends to channels that we didn't know about, made it desecrate the work of the Committee in which we wanted to present and consider, and that at least with that attitude, we should go before the MPs and the public in relation to the five laws that we passed in the package. It is undeniable that it has been said several times so far and that it is about laws that are large, comprehensive, and three of them are systematic. It does not justify the promoter the fact that several months of laws were delivered to MPs after a public debate. It is clear that they have been delivered, and it is clear that these few months, despite the large number of requests for interventions and changes, did nothing to change them substantially and adapt them to those who were considered competent to decide and speak of it and give their opinion. That same version was delivered to us as a final act, and then to be, of course, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which was radically amended a few months ago, and all in order for the discussions to be shortened here, so that the laws were passed as quickly as possible, as quickly as possible, the five laws from which each amendment should be set aside, each of them explained, and so we have, in our opinion and possible, worked and we are going in a package and a quick review of a large number of amendments. As soon as there's a large number of amendments, it says the law isn't that good. What else did we experience during yesterday's and earlier committees? It is sometimes shown, and I don't know what the minister's behaviour is explaining, but mostly the minister, and I'm not talking about his associates, trying to get into direct dialogues and put himself in a position to be forced into dialogue, a man who teaches us political doctrine, who asks us why we write amendments when we don't vote on laws. Why, say, defend the amendments, if I understand the question correctly, so we bring them to the Assembly and the public, and at least we don't support the laws in principle. So, we've had amazing topics, amazing stories. It could be understood that it was in the office, that it was in the sense of some informal conversation. But in the later part, when the session was scheduled again in four hours, and otherwise it was the idea to do so today at 11.00 a.m., so there was a whole other concept in the Committee's work, it happened that it was accelerated here, thanks to the Rules of Procedure, the procedure to get past all the points as soon as possible to make it appear today. By the time she showed up, she had to pass the Committee. It was a vain attempt by the president of the Committee to really make at least one legal institution necessary, before they appear here, the amendments pass, because the principles have passed and to pass the bar committee if we do not have the government's opinion. Yesterday we saw of those other laws, for which they were handed over to the amendment earlier without the Government's position on amendments. So I don't think that's really fair, it's not principled, it's not right that in some direct dialogue and debate with MPs and obstruction... Look, the position is obstructing the opposition's work, just incredible, but it was yesterday, it's possible by accident. I don't object absolutely to the members of the Committee from certain groups who probably did it, possibly by momentum, so all of this unfortunately fits in and that they're alone and responsible, it's really possible because of fatigue. It wasn't our fault, and there was nothing the board president could do about it. It is not the Committee president's fault that you asked for five laws per amendment and that so many amendments were made and that you yourself wrote so many amendments. There are more amendments to your position than ours. It says they're not good laws for you and that you don't agree with each other and that you have to accept something and you have to do it quickly. You didn't explain to the IMF again, the World Bank again, and if you didn't treat them... We'll see later in the discussion, you haven't even treated the needs of the citizens. Who were you treating? According to your own imagination, your own concept, the officials sitting around you. So did you ask professors who do business, respected academics, if you're going to put this "smart council" that you're planning, why are you bringing him in now? What do you need this medical advice for? I see you think you're gonna get competent people in, but that's what you're gonna do. If you've already passed all the laws, now they're going to follow what you're doing and change you, and you're not going to experience that you're changing those laws, there's no theory there. We'll have to change that, I guess it's clear to you, but so don't let us in a fair-play game, a fair-play fight and try to prove to you that we have a better solution to interfere and create now an extended discussion, which better that lasted yesterday and that the order ends everything that needs to be completed rather than an accelerated process. Today we're wasting our time again, yet you're not able to stop us from saying, you can't make the Rules of Procedure so restrictively that we can't and we don't have any chance of saying what we want.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22056	Do any of the MPs who have given their opinion on the Committee want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Milomir Dunjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22057	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after a long time these system laws from the field of health have arrived. We Serbian Radical Party MPs were expecting laws, not, Mr. Minister, novels. You yourself have seen that in the health care law we have 278 members, insurance - 269 members. Believe me, we couldn't read all that, we couldn't prepare it, because you wanted to bring together all these health laws that mean a lot to us. Mr. Minister, the health situation is difficult. I come from the middle where I was sitting working in health care as a dentist, as a young man who came here with the intention of returning once to the city where you live. Of course, I didn't see that coming. I'm probably retired right now, but I can tell you that I'm very offended by your behavior the other day and yesterday on the Health Committee. My gray hair and my seriousness wouldn't let me react, but that's why colleagues of Paja Momchilov and my colleagues took it very well today and I fully agree with them. You, Mr. Minister, have humiliated your esteemed colleagues, because we are another political option, but at no point did we want to underestimate you, on the contrary, you had sympathy, at least as far as I am concerned, as a man I know as a very good professor, but what you did yesterday and the day before yesterday, we, or your colleagues, did not expect. Of course, for my degree, Mr. Minister, it's only my late father and I who don't give a diploma to insult me. You Serbian radicals underestimated us yesterday as if we were doctors of another order. I don't know if you're aware, but that's how we figured it out. As we will vote, whether we will be for these laws of yours, that is the position of our Serbian Radical Party; we, Mr. Minister, are the opposition, you know, and every law we watch how we can help, to make our contribution. So, we're not satisfied with these laws of yours because of the abundance, I think the previous laws may be better than this one. I'm sure you'll vote your law to your majority, but it won't be good for this people. You know we have a lot of sick people, but it's not just about our citizens' disease, it's health care, Mr. Minister, it's sick. Maybe you're trying to cure health care, not patients, but the way you started, I don't think you're gonna make it. I expect that, although you have not allowed us, we will have a lot of amendments; we will try as much in our power to help you improve these laws and make a contribution to making these laws better. There's something I'd like to tell you, since I won't have much time, and it's about home health, and it's small. So, I mean small populated places. You said we'd privatize everything, and health homes. I wonder, for the part where I am, for the Health Home in Serbia, when for years we can't get a doctor, and a particularly specialist, how are we going to privatise this, are we going to do the mafia again to buy the health care home of someone who's got money, who illegally acquired it, how are we going to choose doctors, gynecologists, pediatricians or dentists? Who's the one who's gonna decide? Will there be any privates again? Let my colleagues apologize, but among us there are also doctors who have sinned against the standard of conduct. In front of the Serbian Radical Party, I can tell you that we will not support this law, we will probably contribute through the amendments, and that will indeed be our contribution, but how long it will be for, it is up to you again, because they did not let us do yesterday what we were supposed to do on the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22058	The word has a health minister, Dr Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22059	I thank you all for participating in the debate that is necessary. I have to say a few things that just don't stand. So I started sitting down too. Working in Serbia's health system, and I've been working for 25 years, and I started as a doctor at the Faculty of Medicine in Belgrade, and then as a doctor for a certain time at the Internal "B" clinic, then indefinitely, and did everything that was commanded by life, God, family and people, and I do my job in every place as best I can. It's never best, because the best can't be done, but it has to strive for the best. When I started working, on my first day, my director, Dr. Milenko Lalić, took me from the basement to the roof of the Internal "B" clinic, and I met all the janitors, people who do laundry and prepare uniforms for Monday morning when you came to work, nurses, nurses and technicians, doctors at specialization, specialists and top professors who gave a significant stamp to the work of the Internal "B" clinic. When I speak in the Serbian Parliament today, I have expressed a very deep responsibility first of all to people I have had the happiness and opportunity to treat, but also to those I have worked with for 25 years and met in various ways. I've had the chance to teach people how to work this trade. The place of Minister of Health in the Government of the Republic of Serbia is a place of great responsibility. I also feel a deep pride that I was able to participate in the work of governments that marked Serbian history over the past few years, starting with Mr. Zoran Djindjic, who led the government during that period, and through the crisis times in which Zoran Zivkovic led the government, and then today after the 2003 elections, where my platform as the former health minister was continuity with the work at the health ministry, in a new government with different support, but with the continuity of changes in the health system. These laws are not ideal, but, truth be told, four of these five laws were held by the Health and Family Committee in May 2005 in its documentation. It's November. For six months, the laws were handed over to the members of the Health and Family Committee. I'm repeating this now for the citizens, not for us, because we know very well. It could be concluded from the discussion of the predecessors that the Committee did not support this law or that it was completely against or that it had expressed doubts that they were necessary at all. However, the facts are different. The fact is that the Committee on Health and Family of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in principle supported the laws on the agenda today. It's a really basic fact, it needs to be repeated multiple times, if someone doesn't get it well or enough. Whenever the minister of health in the government of the Republic of Serbia was invited to the Health and Family Committee, he responded to the call, even when he was notified today for tomorrow, at five p.m., by fax, that tomorrow was a meeting at twelve. Even when representatives of different groups attended the committee, some associations that had opposing opinions gave me the opportunity to focus on attitudes, to come together to the best solution. I never, a respected colleague, disrespected anyone as a member of the Health and Family Committee, no matter what political commitment he was, but I made my point, and I said that I would always fight for the right to have everyone express their position and that they could freely state it. Mine was that if someone said I was against the law and I don't think it was right, that it wasn't good and that it wasn't supposed to be on the agenda at all, I've always had an unusual situation in which, after such an argument, the amendments were written. What are the amendments for? To fix something that man is against by definition at the beginning, it is, in my opinion, a contractio and an adecto indeed, but it is a rule of parliamentary democracy, and I respect it. If anyone feels hurt by any of my words, I'm really sorry and I apologize to them from this pay phone, even if I'm not guilty at all. I have never demeaned anyone in my life, especially in the function of the Minister of Health, whom I personally see as a huge commitment. After this function, I have to go back, continue teaching students internal medicine, teach young doctors gastroenterology, treat people from those diseases that I've learned to do something, and I want to look at them with a clear face and a clear view. I would not like to comment on the claims that mentioned the dynamics of debate, unification, time, that's something where I really can't as a minister of health and a member of the government right now to make some creative, any contribution. It is the Parliament's decision and it is parliamentaryism. Parliamentaryism implies the right for everyone to say their opinions, then to adopt a position, and then to respect it. It's been mentioned here several times by the World Bank. One of the most important international partners is a bank called the World Bank, which is actually not just a bank. It has a real dimension, a joke could say philanthropy, but it's not just a joke, it's a seriousness, because it takes care of the social dimension of society. I also had the opportunity to hold a presentation at the World Bank meeting in Vienna last month for employees of the World Bank for Europe and Central Asia and to talk about the results so far and the achievements and weaknesses and needs of reforming the health system in Serbia. I have to say immodestly that this presentation has had significant approval. There are things that are being debated, questioned and with international partners. They are numerous in the health sector, starting with the World Health Organization, in which we have returned in the way that we need all of you and all of us to serve honor, is a small fraction and some of my merits and our merits, the Ministry of Health, in it; through which we are doing large projects that are seen and heard both in the media and in the citizens who are very well aware and who are trying to correct what we have left to our children as adults as a burden of violence and perverse behavior, which they have begun to accept as their own, so they have begun to kill themselves in the streets and in clubs and to completely distort what we want to give them as parents; through the European Investment Bank, the World Bank and other international partners who are there to help us become an equal part of the European family. When you say services, at one point here someone mentioned, there's a huge package of services, which is unsustainable financially. Reform rests on what you have and builds what is better. We believe that such services should be defined in the law and we fought to keep them as defined as they are. It is said: We shall privatize all things. That's just not true. On the contrary, it is quite the opposite, in terms of homes of health. I'm afraid my colleague didn't understand exactly what was said, because actually in a few of the exhibitions you've expressed completely different views, from the attitudes that the best way to decentralisation is fast privatisation. All fast solutions, such shortcuts, are usually bad. Fast privatisations in a health system that has one tradition, one foundation, suddenly cutting rights, making poor availability, disrupting solidarity and actually doing greater damage to citizens than benefit. We have never advocated uncritical and rapid privatisation, especially not primary health care, but we have always said why the definition of a family doctor is not in the law, but there is the definition of a chosen doctor, and the chosen doctor is a general physician, the chosen physician is a gynaecologist, a pediatrician, because in our tradition that we lead a child a pediatrician, and for six decades we have invested in developing a pediatric service just to repair the parameters. And we did fix them. When you compare the '70s, the '80s, the '90s and the 'twenties, that's the result not since yesterday, not since this two years, three, five years, but 60 years of the development of the pediatric service. In gynecology there are many things that need to be fixed, from the early detection of the most severe diseases, malignant ones, and we are now conducting in the Branič region and the first results are beginning to be seen and we are going to insist even more strongly on it. But in the institution of a family doctor, that would mean that both gynaecologist and pediatrician are specialists who are consultants, and in fact a family doctor with his skills takes on the skills of treating children and women. That's why the law -- the elected doctor, and that's why in the institution of the chosen doctor and gynecologist and pediatrician, where Serbia's tradition must be respected where it is good, good results must be respected where they are good and they should be promoted, and of course we don't have a complex in relation to the ownership structure at all. Of course, there will be an increasing share of the private sector in providing health services and it is already visible through the first regular normal contracts that are being implemented this year. It can be seen through equating conditions for the establishment of institutions and through a number of others. I hope I've made that dilemma clear about the attitude. As for the discussion of amendments or long time for discussion, I repeat, four of these five laws are in the Serbian Parliament for six months. After a public debate that has been extended twice, after the opportunity to offer other solutions, to supplement these solutions, it is not the best solution to suddenly give amendments to the laws in one day, therefore there is a regular procedure of assembly work, which implies that the board has time to consider all the papers. It's not like you read the laws the first time yesterday afternoon. If that's the case, I won't believe it, of course it's impossible. The government will otherwise take a position on the amendments and I will deliver them to you in writing. This is a debate in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22060	The People's MP, Pai Momchilov, is looking for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22061	Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister has tried to answer some things and has even more to blame the Committee by stressing twice that we have had laws for six months and have not done our job. I've explained to you the dynamics of how things have run, that you see who's been taking off the agenda, even against your will, and that's why you've been angry. What you said at the beginning, in your professional integrity absolutely no one doubts. You're a top expert, I'm free to say European format, I can't say world-class, we're looking for Europe now, and I could say that. No one's questioning that. It says here we're quoting wrong. Everything we quote, we don't quote anything wrong. When someone says that, believe me, he's not telling the truth. In the 19th Street of Washington, where the World Bank headquarters is, the building says, "Our dream is a world without poverty." These co-workers, where you lectured them, this is a strategy to help with World Bank health, and what is said in this strategy – the Serbian government does not have a credible coherent strategy and action plan to streamline, restructure and re-orient the health care system in the direction of quality improvement, etc. It is a bit of an old document, but there was a policy before that. That's what the World Bank told you, and don't say we're misquoting. Who cares if I read this wrong, can read it. What came out of the NIN on September 1st, written by Caroline Junger, when you read it, then you gather around and meet where you are. It's said, "Be careful, it's ironic all the time. Would you like to see a doctor when you're sick?" "Be careful, September 1st of this year. "If you think this question is stupid, because of course everyone would answer yes, you're very wrong. In fact, many people in Serbia don't go to doctors when they're sick. Why? To be honest, for many reasons. "It also says this: "One of the most important is that treatment is, simply, too expensive. The analysis of poverty done by the World Bank in Serbia in 2004 says 45% of people who did not go to the doctor when they were sick said they were too expensive. "That's what the World Bank tells you that you're working very well with. And as the irony goes on, we'll read it to you. That's exactly what we're pointing to. Mr. Minister, you said you were wondering why we were making amendments, and we reject the law. Well, let's try, because we know that by the force of the majority and these kinds of machinations that you resort to... The chairman does not mind having such a session, he believes that his moral integrity is not preserved by it and I congratulate him on it, congratulating the speaker of the assembly, congratulating the Serbian government as well, headed by the prime minister. I ask you a question, Mr. Minister - do you think this debate is okay? You say it again six months, and I'm telling you that I put it more than a month ago, and the position has restored it. One more thing: when you say the Committee voted, it is, on request, to plead six to five. That's a very tight majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22062	Do any of the MPs who've singled out want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Dr Miroljub Maric, the authorised representative of the G17 Plus parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22063	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, let's get started on the debate, we've made it a little bit longer. I would briefly like to go back to these previous discussions, to confirm that three out of four of these laws were still in May and that it doesn't seem like it's time to get to know the laws at all. Simply, the public debate on the laws has been going on for less than a year. The laws have passed a public hearing. There have been a lot of objections, a lot of objections have been observed and it does not say that this is some raw text, but rather this text has changed a lot compared to earlier drafts of the law. What the radicals say is that the health situation is bad, what is said to be the World Bank suggests that the health system in Serbia is not good, we know that well. That is why we are today and proud to have in front of the Assembly a set of health care laws, which will in some ways become one base for a comprehensive change in the health system. Mr. Minister just said there's been one continuity since 2000. In some statements earlier, when he said that the health system in Serbia will not be able to change so quickly, that it takes us many years, a lot of patience and persistent work, many have criticised it, in the sense that the minister has no clear concept, that the ministry does not know what needs to be changed in this healthcare system. But it's not like that. We really have a lot of accumulated problems. We don't want to talk about the health care system in our country not being good. That system works, that system heals our closest, heals our people. However, the system has many shortcomings. We don't want to accuse anyone of being guilty of the inadequacies in this system this time. In my introduction, I will try accordingly to highlight the facts that have led to major problems in this system. We simply have the growing needs of the population for health care and health services. That's a fact. We have an increase in general health culture. Unfortunately, these years of unfortunate wars, sanctions, this health culture has fallen in some way, because the value of human life, unfortunately, has fallen to low branches in this country. However, we must give our confession first to our colleagues. As the minister said, I am here somewhere with 25 years of medical work; I hope that the worst years, and there have been good years, have remained behind for Serbia's health. We want to fix the system with new legal solutions, which is currently not possible to keep alive, because it does not meet the needs of Serbian citizens. We have a demographic situation where the extension of the life span of the population is one of the current problems. We've got a lot of old people. These old people require daily health care, they require daily medications. This reflects the increase in health care costs. Simply, health care costs are inconsistencies with the material opportunities of the Serbian state. We're a poor country. We had some time, I remember, when I was a young doctor, the situation that the economy was working, that the economy financed 70% of health care needs. What do we got now? We have this ten-year term of sanctions, we have a significant drop in economic activity, we have a drop in living standards, we have post-war syndromes. We're not going to say that in public. We have Vietnamese syndromes in our country, then they're called Serbian. We've got a lot of people who've been under a lot of stress, we've got family poverty. So it all affects that this is how the health system, as we currently have, is unsustainable in the longer term, because the needs of the population are much, much greater. We had a problem with irregular and insufficient payment of contributions to compulsory health insurance. We had a problem with refugees in the past wars. We treated all these people. No one paid for their treatment. We shared, the people of Serbia shared this humble health money with many refugees. We have a problem, and the minister pointed out this in his exposé, an enormous increase in the number of specialists and their penetration into lower levels of health. That's one big problem. In our time, we had a totally unplanned professional training. We had these unfortunate volunteer specializations, when many colleagues, and not to be offended by those who ended up and perfected themselves, didn't want us to have the same burden in medical hospitals, on duty in small health homes at night, in outpatient maternity homes, but simply had money, and they wanted to specialize. Then these people forced us to hire them and finance them. That's a big problem. The same is inadequately spent on that health money. We have a dangerous problem -- the parallel organized development of the most expensive segments of health care. You know that modern health diagnostics are very expensive. We had, for various political reasons, a duplication of capacity. Let's just look at the capital, how many high-end institutions we have here that were used to be some political creations. I'm not saying you don't need a city this big, this many people. But the costs are huge. So the real need is to create a sustainable level of public rights for health care. How are we gonna do that? We will do so, thanks to the Ministry's tenacity and our minister's and thanks to these laws, which I hope the Assembly will adopt by one great majority, regardless of the serious objections of fellow radicals. I call on them to criticise in their manner, but to professionally support what is better for the citizens of Serbia. I'll be passing these laws shortly, and there'll be time for us to discuss it in detail. It's the first health insurance law. The Health Insurance Act underlines the need for the growing needs of the population to use healthcare to comply with the available financial resources. Public spending, i.e. health insurance costs, needs to be reduced to the real potential of the Republic of Serbia's budget. We have a dangerous absurd here. We have an absurdd that public spending and spending in health is huge, uncontrollable, and on the other hand, we cannot meet the minimum needs of the population for health services. Why is that happening? It happens because it's irrational consumption. So, we're going to have to coordinate these things, end practice so people can spend health money on demand, but simply have to spend health money on real needs, according to indications. Furthermore, health insurance has the principles of reciprocity, solidarity and desire to include as many citizens as possible in compulsory health insurance. Earlier, the minister noted, simply with new legal solutions, with a new health insurance law, we will not have one person in the country of Serbia unsecured, because we plan to ensure that refugees, exiled persons and other people, persons over 65, who are unable to work and generate income, we provide health insurance with mandatory health insurance from the Republic of Serbia's budget. There is a need for coordination of the health insurance system and with flows in EU countries. For the sake of the public, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia who are following us, I would like to say that these solutions are absolutely not random in laws, that one serious parallel study has been conducted by a team of experts who have monitored all countries in transition, followed EU countries and watched that, according to our specific opportunities and according to the state of our health system, certain solutions are being incorporated into new laws. The Health Insurance Act provides for a circle of insurance. I've already said that health insurance predicts the evasive and elderly persons mandatory health insurance. The news is that persons not covered by compulsory insurance can self-involve themselves in compulsory insurance, for themselves and for their families. It's made so-called. a mandatory health insurance package, where strictly specified services to be paid for by compulsory insurance. The Republic Health Insurance Institute will bring forward an annual plan in the future, just what I just said - a plan for real spending and real opportunities for health spending. This Health Insurance Act introduces waiting lists for highly specialised and expensive health services, precisely because there is no inequality, so that all citizens can equally compete for the most expensive and modern methods of diagnostics. Health services are specified which are not provided by compulsory health insurance. Then, it is envisioned to negotiate obligations under compulsory health insurance funds, both the institution, whose founder is the Republic and the founders of private offices, normally, depending on accreditation. Voluntary health insurance is a new moment which is an alternative to compulsory health insurance, not in terms of the alternative, but simply a supplement, so that voluntary health insurance will work, alongside the Republic Institute, and other insurance companies. Experiences in different countries in the environment are colorful, so to speak laymanically. But we'll see what's best in our case, but that possibility exists. I'd like to say a little bit about the Red Cross Bill, since he's our second on the agenda. The Red Cross bill lays down the position, rights, obligations of the Red Cross of Serbia as an auxiliary body of government in the humanitarian area. The law lays down sources of funding for Serbia's Red Cross. The red cross of Serbia is profiled as a humanitarian, independent, non-profit, voluntary organisation, part of Serbia-Montenegro's Red Cross society. The Red Cross of Serbia acts through public authority, which is legally entrusted to national society and through programmes and activities stemming from the objectives and tasks of the International Red Cross Movement and the Red Crescent. The health care workers' chamber law is the second system law on our agenda. This law is very important. After 60 years, the country should have a serious esnafian association. Health chambers are formed to improve the conditions for performing health work. It is planned: medical chamber, dental chamber, pharmaceutical chamber, chamber of biochemists and chambers of nurses and health technicians. Membership in chambers will be mandatory for people engaged in the profession of health care. So, all those who work in health institutions and private practice will have to register in health chambers. A voluntary membership for those who do not work, who are not professionally engaged in the health profession and will also be honored members. The Chamber shall adopt an ethical code, register all members, issue, renew and withdraw authorisations for independent work, etc. licenses, provided in disputes between members, shall be organised by courts of honor, held by a directory of disciplined measures, determined by membership, issued by members, issued by an identification number. The chamber is simply actively involved in health policy in accordance with the law and statute of the chamber. The fourth law on the agenda is the proposal for a law on substances used in the illicit production of intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances. This bill aims to prevent the abuse of production, i.e. the transport of substances to so-called substances. Precursors, to obtain intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances. Precursors are classified in the first, second and third categories. The Ministry shall educate the Commission for Precursors, issue a permit for production, i.e. the transport of precursors, establish the conditions under which imports, exports, transit, as well as the special packaging in which the transport of precursors is carried out. The supervision of the implementation of this law is carried out by the Ministry of Health through an inspector for intoxicating drugs, psychotropic substances and precursors. The fifth bill is a bill on health care. The new law provides for the division of responsibilities in the achievement of health care both in the Republic, in the province, in the municipalities, in the city, and in the employer, or in the individual. Patients' rights have been defined, the organisation of health services has been amended, new forms of private practice have been proposed, the organisation of health services in terms of the abolition of globular health centres and the creation of rational health institutions that can meet the basic needs for the health of the population. Health care at primary, secondary and tertiary levels has been organized. The transfer of founding rights to the level of local self-government has been carried out. I want to point out, there has been a lot of speculation in the public that local self-government will be the founders of homes of health and pharmacy and that the environments that are poor and not sufficiently developed will also have major consequences. That's not true. Simply, the Republic of Serbia's budget will plan funds for the transitional phase, and then local self-government budgets will plan only funds for founding operations, while all other costs of health services, health care, equipment and functioning of the health system will be borne by the Health Protection Fund. This law specifically regulates the work of health institutions and private practices. The concept of equal conditions for the establishment of health institutions is proposed, both legal and natural persons. A continuous improvement in quality and quality control of healthcare is foreseen, then accreditation of health institutions and a program of continuous education. It is proposed that the National Assembly adopt a strategy for the health care of the Republic. There is a better distribution of funds according to the needs of the population, especially at the primary level of health care. A health technology assessment is planned, which is very important, by the Commission educated by the health minister, so that we will prevent future divergent entry of suspicious equipment into health institutions. The advertising of health services is prohibited, a category of selected physician is introduced in primary health care. Directors of health institutions are selected by public competition for four years. The desire is to depolitize the functions of health institutions' managers, even predicting that the healthcare institution's head may be a second profession, not to be a doctor, provided he has completed his medical management education. The G17 plus parliamentary group will vote for the proposed laws. I call on you all to support these laws and, as one colleague said earlier, finally try to seriously heal the health care system in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22064	The word is from MP Paja Momcilov, representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22065	Dear People's MPs, I'm now using the first part, perhaps even unitedly using both parts. At the beginning of this presentation, I apologize to you Members who are not doctors, since we may be having some discussions that are not interesting to you and use a little more professional terminology, unsuitable to this high home. But we're forced to do it, it's a time seal and a pinch. He says an esteemed colleague that it used to be bad, and the minister often knows that he said it was bad before. What does the IMF say? "Despite unfavourable conditions, in recent years Serbia has shown quite good results in relation to similar countries in terms of life's expected length at the moment of birth and child mortality. However, these results are likely related to improved living conditions, on the one hand and, on the other hand, to earlier investments in health care. "This is the 2002 report. So, just to say that Serbia had a good system under the Socialists, why not say it openly, and the numerical indicators say it. It's from 2002, and we'll see when we look at the data from 2005 that these indicators will be, so we'll be able to judge the post-revolutional times. What I would like to say at the very beginning, since I said that we are against these laws and one important reason is listed at the very beginning, because of disrespect for the very procedure and obstruction of the plea, let's see how the expert public has been determined under these laws. I'm not quoting anything, I'm reading it correctly, the Serbian Medical Society and the objections signed by the president, Professor Vojkan Stanic. Be careful what the answer is – it was a long time ago, it changed. Just to read two things, essentially: "The draft ignores the integrated approach towards the family as the primary unit to provide primary health care. The health care law should fully balance the situation of private practice and state institutions." As it's changed, you prove it to me and show it to me, so I'll be very pleased. I don't want to read this before where it's said that there's nothing practically new and that some of the solutions used to be good. If anyone is responsible for this area, they're social medicine specialists. Here's an opinion on these laws of the Department of Social Medicine, signed by the president of the doc. Dr. Sladjana Jovic, says, "As conditions for the adoption of a law are not met, the Constitution, the adopted policy by parliament," the adopted policy by parliament, I repeat, and this is very important, we will ultimately explain why this is very important, "the adopted health strategy with objectives, the lack of a concept of further development of the health care system and, in particular, primary health care and the privatisation of the health sector, should not accept the proposed versions of the bill, nor allow this version of the law to be offered for consideration to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". None of the essentials of what was sought have been changed. That's the opinion of the profession. I'm not going to read everything, three memos, return, return, return. Anyone who doesn't believe can check it out. I said about that chamber that they might be legitimate, but they're not legal, because the law doesn't predict, but they're existing living people, who exist. The state doesn't sanction them for their existence, so they're illegal. It's the opinion of private doctors, doctors' unions and pharmacists and not to add any more. So, show me the document, please, where the public is, except for the directors you command and other than that association of health institutions, state institutions, gave the opposite opinion and that it all feels good. Again, I warn that we must be fully aware of the circumstances and circumstances in which we live today. When I quote this Mrs. Junger, I am obliged to repeat to you what she told you here at the Committee's session. Why do I tell you this? I'm just telling you because this story, which we're going to expose to the end, is that it's necessary to pass a law on insurance in order to fuck public spending and that public spending in health, is a false story. The esteemed World Bank Director says – more access should be created to social assistance organisations, not smaller. Social expansion. It says – it is necessary to make a reliable social protection system, it is necessary to allow wider access to the health care system, as well as to the education system. Are waiting lists extended access? Is the work this afternoon for money, over the line to a doctor who's not a private then, that extends access? I don't want to read what she said ironically, and she says, "Praise that you have a big hospital in Belgrade, and then she says, "well, nice." That's what he tells you, it's so ironic. No such case of irony of a high-ranking official has been recorded so far, and you haven't answered. He says: "Why do you not invest better in primary health care, and you will achieve far better results?" Okay, I'm not saying she's absolutely right. Here, in an OR somewhere near us, this document is on the agenda and it is called – Serbia-Montenegro 2005, meaning the European Commission's report. You're wearing badges. There, when it comes to corruption, it says this, means how it is done - conflict of interest and then says this: free access to information – they are not yet at a satisfactory level and the government does not allow to improve a situation that is not right. So what I've already said is not a good health situation and the parameters are getting worse that show the state of health; the number one killer, coronary disease and vascular strokes are increasing by 25 percent since 2000. We have an answer, it can't be prevented by measures in a year or two, Mr. Minister, it can be prevented and we'll explain how and we'll show you a report from the World Health Organization where these indicators have been reduced in a year, unfavourable for each population. They'll tell you and what method it is, preventing these unfavourable things, and that's what your competent associates should tell you. You have relied on the side, well-paid associates, whom you celebrate. You are consulted by Mr. Keber from Slovenia, an internal immunologist, on the issue of the financing of the law, and the World Bank tells you – you have not done an adequate financial simulation to make sure that what you predicted with the package is feasible with your incomes. Here you have a bunch of our top experts who would do this to you and who know how to do it. You have referred to Professor Lalic, but you do not appreciate your old professors and those who are still professors today and who are still experts of the World Health Organization. The World Health Organization expert's license is given for four years. There's a live one here, and I'll show you in writing, because you travel around the world and you don't know you have one in the country. There is one more thing I want to tell you about, to be clear about our experts, 35 Serbian doctors and medics were in the World Health Organization at the service in 1978. Of these, four were chairmans of a Geneva-based committee, and four were representatives of the World Health Organisation abroad. Today, we have an expert on the World Health Organization, not to mention the other experts that were to be consulted, not tossing or wasting money. That's where you were supposed to be saving, not for something that's social and that's putting our citizens' health at risk. There's something I want to say about the laws themselves. Of course, you can't say anything serious about five laws in 20 minutes. I will be understood by the citizens of Serbia. It doesn't bother Mr. Minister, it doesn't bother the chairman. I said, it's a picture of them, it's part of their personality, and there's nothing we can do about it. Let's say something, health care law, interesting law, 278 members, health insurance law - 269 members. Please, where did you see such laws and with this number of members, in which country, do you in that Slovenia; this Keber, who took 500 euros a day from you here and paid him 100,000 euros in total on behalf of this people, did he tell you that you should write 269 and Slovenian has 90? That's probably what he told you. You're the only one who won't listen to him. That's not good. If you're already paying for it, then listen and look up. How about an explanation? You say these laws form a legislative basis for reforming the health system at this stage of the reform as a continuous process. Please, the reform of the continuous process is not, let's understand each other right away. In the world and in Europe under reform, fundamental changes in the objectives and tasks of health services are involved. A document on health policy in all developed countries of the world brings parliament, Mr. Minister, to health policy. This House has not brought it in since 2000. Why didn't he bring it, I don't know, and I don't want to get into it. Since the National Assembly has not had the opportunity to discuss this, there is no way that a trace of the events can continue to be normal. Based on this document where the objectives are clearly defined, you bring strategy to the government, the ministry, and you do not need the Assembly to deal with the strategy. It's more of a professional thing. We should deal with the objectives, what we want to achieve, and then experts will set up a strategy, not parliament and those who represent the citizens of Serbia here. There is yet to be a proposal for quality laws. You didn't do any of that. There's nothing. What you call a white book or a vision, that's not it. I read what you were told by the World Bank – that you do not have a coherent, consistent policy and strategy. That's what the World Bank tells you, I'm not telling you. Talk to them about what's right. We are obliged, as a member of the World Health Organization, and you are traveling, going, to create a document on the goals and measures of health policy according to a document called Health for All in the 21st century. Why have we been doing this since 2000, and no more sanctions, no more blockades, we haven't done it? That's one question now and it's not clear. When all this doesn't exist, then you can have one saying in a law that's declarative and that's an empty story. Our objection is that there are many declarations, that half the members are unnecessary and that they can be automatically deleted. Lawyers know a lot better. You've got lawyers here, conversing with Madam Secretary of State for Health, having fun, she'd have to say that a member of the law should go, you have a norm, a saying, so if it's not respected how it's going to be sanctioned. It is said in paragraph 2 – that the primary objective of healthcare is to achieve the highest possible level of preservation of the health of citizens and families. It's a phrase, and if he wanted to take something out of the declaration from the founding meeting on July 22, 1966 and interpret one of those members, he could have taken the thought and incorporated it into the law, and he should have prescribed it as it reads in the original, but I'm not going to read it. What is said to be a discrepancy between funds and costs, certainly there is a reason why all countries are going into reform and why they reform this system and there are no dilemmas. However, it is said that this law wants to introduce decentralisation and two systems are used: one that has already imposed the Law on local self-government, where you have that local self-government establish institutions and appoints directors. However, the minister did not take advantage of what we resent, the fourth strong way he could combine this decentralisation with what he predicted, and it would probably be at this point most effective, which is privatisation. What we're going to say is, the purpose of decentralisation should be, at least according to the Ljubljana Charter, to bring a citizen to the centre of decision-making. With these laws of yours, citizens are not even brought to the center of decision-making. You have, however, one provision where you say – forming an insurance advice at the level of branches in health insurance that have an advisory role. There's no decision. You've completely led the citizens to extremes, they have no rights anywhere and can't plead to the system and control the system. You're talking about elaborate decentralisation, that's something new, because we don't know that kind of terminology. When you use the law, it would be nice to define, because all the new things that are used suffer and define. An efficient reference system does not exist, and that is now, to tell you the bottom line, for us is to preserve the biological unity of the people, and when that is the case, we need to have health indicators, and the indicators say clearly that mortality is from cardiovascular diseases, stroke and cancer in the first place. Then we have to focus, and it's a health policy, because the goal is to reduce that mortality, to the quality of life, to prevention and everything that goes. If so, the most effective way is to fight at the primary level, not the angio-sala, not the scanners, not the magnetic resonance, not the secondary, not the tertiary protection. If I were right, just look at the budget and see how much funds are allocated for primary protection, and how much funds you have allocated for secondary and tertiary. Pyramid: 70% below is done in the primary up to 80%, and this is up to 30 in the secondary section; it should be the same financially. It's the other way around, we have down here, when it comes to financial resources, proportionally when it's seen, smaller funds are allocated. You see only what the fund provides for and the budget, and you'll understand how we fight for primary health care and for the detection and elimination of risk factors. You can influence the behaviour of the nation with your actions in cafes with ambassadors, with running – it is a very long way and there are no quick solutions. It takes 10 years. If you were looking for systemic risk factors and eliminating them, you would be very helpful to Serbian health care. Mr. Minister, if we wanted to stick to your declarations, you'd first equip the primary level and completely, then, of course, you wouldn't be neglecting the secondary, or the tertiary, but this is contitio son qua non to fully protect that level. In the middle of Belgrade, three days ago, my good friend, my colleague's mother fell on the street, after 45 minutes an EKG emergency team comes in -- we're out of EKG. It can't be done, Mr. Minister, an angio-sala, because in an ambulance he has to work in the primary health care hospital of the ECG and that's the first thing. With an active attitude, a combination of changes in the behaviour of the population would certainly lead to better results. But there are a number of things, and we, we don't have time to cover everything, to explain through amendments based on facts, data and attitudes of modern world science, because it bothers us why you're talking about health institutions and practices. You can't mix grandmothers and frogs. The practice is known, the institution is known, and there is no sign of equality in Serbian. That's what you're trying to make a sign of equality. You are opening a monument to Vladna Djordjevic and introducing a system – the Institute for Public Health. You can't, Mr. Secretary. Public Health existed in the 19th century, when Mr. Djordjevic was alive, and Batut, and neither of them translated "public" with "public," but with "national". If you want to change the name of the institution, use tradition and call – Institute for the Protection of People's Health or Institute for Health Protection, as it has been so far. You say they've accepted it around here. It is not true, she accepted Croatia because she is running away from Serbian, inventing an occupier, and now they will be called for public health, and you will be right behind the Croats. How did the Slovenians, both Keder - Health Services, no - public, fellow ministers, and not true, have no Macedonians, only Croats and Croats immediately jumped. I just touched some problems. I'm sorry we don't have time, but believe me, through the amendments, we'll explain everything in detail. There has come another deputy president of the Assembly, and I want to do the same to you, and I end up asking if your conscience, Mr. Angelkovic, is calm, when laws are passed in this way very important to the health of citizens, who directly tang in the social component, is your conscience peaceful to you? The government is calm, the president is calm. I said that today's debate is being debated in this House, because the Health Committee was not in a situation and could not, not by its own fault, have not heard the opinion of the Government, and are discussing five laws in the health area, three of which are systemic. I ask you, is your conscience still? You don't have to answer right away. I'll be happy again.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22066	If you're asking me if my conscience is still, my conscience is absolutely calm, and I just can't explain it to you. So, in no way have I obstructed the work of the Health Committee, whose member I am. I'm not the vice president, unfortunately for you or for my own sake, that doesn't mean I wouldn't, of course, want to, when it comes to Parliament. I hope you have plenty of time, not only through the discussion of the amendments, but also in principle, and in the debate on amendments I will always give you more time than it belongs to you, Mr. Momchilov. As you've seen, I've now given you three more minutes. Therefore, you will always get plenty of time to explain every law, so that no detail remains unclear. Who's coming forward from the authorized representatives? National MP Živodarka Dacin, authorised representative of the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22067	Dear Vice-President, honourable fellow Members of the People, I know that the minister had to leave, and indeed with great uncertainty we expect the amendments the Government will adopt at the meeting today at 13.00 hours, because we, as a parliamentary group of SPS, have submitted 40 amendments, indeed with the most sincere desire to correct everything that can be corrected, in terms of improving or clarifying certain ambiguities, and we expect that at least 90% of these amendments will be adopted. Of course, these five laws that we have here today on the agenda in the principle debate are definitely reform, some systemic, some new, some innovated, but definitely reformal. If I say they're reformal, that doesn't mean they're better than the ones they were. The changes are really undeniable. I must say, only the implementation of these laws will show how good or bad they are. Then, I really want to say that, above all, all of us as MPs, and also MP groups here themselves, have the right to make amendments and to supplement certain legislative acts in terms of improvement, because the bad echo was on the ground. It has been proven that their applicability has not actually been the most adequate. So, about a lot of things here, it was affirmative, it was negative, I'd say, we're talking hypothetically. What is it that will actually cause the most controversy here, which is logical, and in public? It's a bill on health insurance. Why? Because it's definitely the biggest, at least for us who work 30 years in health care, a reduction in public spending done right here. There is one part that we absolutely welcome, which is the part where the Government of the Republic of Serbia with our resolution ministry has proposed to the directors to record the situation of employees, prepare a list of technological surpluses and, of course, workers who meet one of the conditions, any year of age, up to a pension of up to two years, that, with a very appropriate compensation, they can voluntarily leave the work organisation. It did seven thousand and some people from Serbia, without Vojvodina. I really want to say here that the Vojvodina health workers, who also wanted to leave the work organisation with adequate compensation, thus making their modest contribution to improving the situation in the field of health care, were very bitter, because they were left without compensation because of political crackdowns, and according to the radical omnibus law (which, in fact, was brought into this assembly home in the past life as a political compromise in order for the ruling DOS to remain in power), they were left without compensation. That's not good, although for the sake of the public, I would like to say that compensation for healthcare workers in Vojvodina will follow, but unfortunately, only in January of the month. Therefore, the answer to this question should be given by the provincial secretary and directors who have made such a decision. Of course, the second reduction is a reduction, and this is also an unhealthy consumption to reduce the costs we have seen, and that is primarily in the sense of introducing individual participations. Before that, I would really like to say that one of the conditions of the SPS parliamentary group was that at the same time we are considering the draft health insurance law and the health care law proposal, so that we can assess whether the proposed health care will be adequately monitored with the finances that are set out in the health insurance proposal. As far as participation is concerned, some three categories of participation are being introduced. What's very important, and what we really don't step down from as a parliamentary group of SPS, is that we really advocate free health care for all citizens. It is our original principle, which I would say was much more balanced than today. What is said here in the bill on health insurance? That in fact, in health insurance, there are participations that say that certain services... Of course, there is one hundred percent that will be paid for the most endangered category of our residents, those who have had special diseases, etc., but we also have those problematic participations where 95%, 80% and 65% are introduced. What's so important? It is very important that the law says - at least 95% of the costs will be borne by the Republic Health Insurance Institute, possibly between one and five percent of the insurance company that does not belong to the endangered category of residents. The polemics were about what it meant least, afraid of the experience we have so far, that immediately our directors and all the other participants in making this would get hold of it and ask that the insurance companies out of their pockets give the rest. However, we have received assurances from the minister that those who make prices and negotiate will certainly take care of it and that most probably for the largest number of insurance companies in our country will still be paid 100% on the burden of compulsory health insurance. I would say here that, after all these experiences, I really am for the fact that there are these kinds of participations, because, you know, if we have individuals who perform in public and say that they receive 300,000 euros a month's salary, I'm sorry, I really don't want to stand behind such people and ask them for all the costs of compulsory health insurance to be paid 100%, just like a family that has 10,000 dinars on a monthly basis, if there is. We Socialists really want to protect the social category of our population. What was the other condition? It is very important for us to clarify, although it seems to me here the same way before, whether all Serbian citizens are necessarily insured or not. The answer was yes. For the sake of the public, I would like to say that all citizens of Serbia are necessarily health insurance, and that is with the Republic Health Services. It was another dilemma for us at the SPS. Why? Because this law introduces alongside mandatory health insurance and voluntary health insurance. For some, this is closer, some further, perhaps I belong to a parliamentary group that really always wants and strives for everything that is state-owned to be stronger and better quality, having nothing against any other private forms of organization, as these, by law, will be, from health insurance. You know, in the chapter on voluntary health insurance, the only thing that's been worked out absolutely is supplementary health insurance. It is absolutely clear that it applies to all those who want to risk participation of protection, i.e. if the supplementary ensures that all services will be 100% charged from insurance on the one hand or on the other or to provide a higher standard of service. We have responded accordingly, and it seems to me that we have been given some assurance that it will be more appropriate in some other way, which would be much more favourable for us. Why are we scared? When someone tells you "sufficient health insurance and parallel" then it can happen that rich people, so to speak, or employers whose workers have and what good incomes they want in a private insurance home to provide health insurance for their workers. Of course, then the poor state register is even poorer and the ones we fight most for, all of us in this congregation, have mandatory health care practically run out of health money. That wouldn't be good. I just want to say that there are things that were absolutely dilemmas here, that we have clarified and responded to with our amendments, in order to improve even further. What else did we insist on getting into this bill on health insurance? For example, it's an absolutely better definition of health care law and financial better coverage when it comes to mother and child health care, including family planning, because what can be more important to all of us than raising healthy offspring. I know this can't be seen in just one way, that this area needs to be multidisciplinaryly covered, but let's make one effort, open the door and say that we as a state really need to think about our healthy offspring, because healthy offspring, good and high-quality births can only be guaranteed a better, better and more advanced state. When it comes to the bill on health care, I would say that there is one of the basic principles, which is the principle of health care efficiency, where it is said that the best effects in healthcare will be achieved, of course, in line with the financial resources. Given the experience we've experienced so far and the way we're looking at things today, it's not our pink perspective. In principle, I am optimistic and I want all the effects to be positive, that the health money for the treatment of all Serbian citizens is full and that this efficiency is what we can provide. What is important in health care, which we socialists really support, is the availability of patients, the proximity, or the provision of health services. I must once again say as a socialist that we advocate that absolutely every health station, which in the old days has been built and that every village in our Serbia, which has the least doctor's office in general practice, pharmacy and dental office, still lives. Some of them are completely locked down because we don't have enough personnel. The equipment seems to be much easier to solve, at least for that primary level than the personnel. Some, say, visit doctors once or twice a week. Is that then the principle of health care that we want to meet the patient and give him first medical care and thus save spending from those secondary levels? We advocate and count on the expense of this voluntary rationalization, at least as far as personnel are concerned, an effort is made and that, in practice, doctors of general practice are found in rural hospitals. You don't have to run from there. Believe me, in such situations, in such an atmosphere, the most, the best and the best is taught. Also, I'd just like to say one connection to missing personnel in some environments. For example, a member of 87 who defines what is forbidden by a pharmaceutical technician as the first associate of graduate pharmacists. I absolutely agree with that. It's said that pharmaceutical technicians can't make gallenic preparations. Please, you must know that the harsh reality is different, that pharmaceutical technicians are making us galenic preparations to issue recipes, but also that in these villages that I was just talking about, in many villages, pharmaceutical technicians are running our pharmacy on their own. You need to know that and you have to make an effort to really comply with this law. If so, hire graduate pharmacists and have them run all these jobs professionally and competently. Here decentralisation is foreseen as it had to be harmonised, in accordance with the already passed Law on Local Self-Government and Omnibus Law, where we have heard how primary health care will be at the level of local self-government, i.e. health homes. I would like to express my satisfaction and say that there was one initiative in all the talks on the adoption of these laws, while they were still in the draft, which is a Article 49 that shows how rationalization should be done and how to allow for more resources to remain in the health register. This Article 49 says that in places or municipalities where there are two or more health institutions, regardless of whether health homes that will be at the level of local self-government are funded or in the province and republican, joint services, such as laboratories, X-ray cabinets, such as joint services in economics, rights, technical services, etc. can be established. It really is rationalization, because the state wouldn't have enough money to replace and employ enough quality personnel without talking about equipment that's still too expensive for us. What I would really say is that the paper is the introduction of a license for workers – this is, of course, being passed, and that this set of laws was important and that their discussion is united – and accreditation for healthcare institutions, for which, over the next three years, it will not be binding. We know it's a process that really takes a long time, and it costs a lot. We know that some of the services, and some institutions, already have these credentials and we strive to get them all, because after some period, after three years, it will be one of the conditions of competence in the negotiation of health institutions with the Republic Health Insurance Office. What is very important, criminal provisions have been introduced, conditions have been introduced, as Article 135 says, when the director of a health institution can be resolved. Let me tell you, if the criteria were applied today, I don't know how many directors would remain to be directors. What's this about? Among other reasons, it is said that one of the reasons for the director to be resolved is because the payment of services covered by compulsory health insurance is being introduced. That's what happens here in Belgrade, in Novi Sad, that's what happens to me in kickinda, and that's not good. No matter what the directors have covered themselves with the decisions of the Management Board, this law does not provide for the possibility of the Management Board having that authority to make decisions on what will be paid, what will not be paid. What's good is, I really want to say that it's better, if we compare it to that participation, to introduce legal participations, but to know exactly which category of person, according to certain incomes, and that this is all fully respected. That would be much better. If you ask our patients and our insurance companies, make sure they say I'm right. Indeed, no matter what is predicted here, and now we have good and quality inspections and health inspectors at the Ministry of Health, but it is not enough if we don't learn to act in accordance with the prescribed laws. Third, the new law in this area, it's a bill of chambers. Although it is good that there are five chambers, although it is good that practically esnafian they can join together and decide independently, I would say that this proposed law is the law that has suffered the largest number of amendments compared to that first draft, I am talking about 2001, when all these laws began to have their own drafts, amendments, additions, etc. I think a compromise solution has been found, because, apparently, the public knows, there was a major dispute between the relationship between representation of private practice and doctors from state institutions. I think it's a good thing, because they, as colleagues, will have the opportunity to agree, to make a statute and to regulate it in a mutual and satisfactory way with the statute. The law that is absolutely new is a bill on illicit drug production and psychotropic substances. Of course, we at the SPS are for every prevention of abuse and use of everything, and of course, the substances that can be used as precursors to make intoxicating drugs. We believe this is the law we have for the first time in the country of Serbia. There was something that was on the federal level, but this law will really enable us to produce quality and also distribute. What's left is the Red Cross bill. I really want to make a public complaint to the President of Mr Markovic's Assembly why this law has not been put on the agenda before, because when we got it on May 20th, it was really nothing to do with these laws, at least with these three system laws that we had today. All municipal organizations, circuits and republican cry for these laws. It is true, they still have the law today, but they expect a lot from all of us MPs, and of course they expect some amendments to be adopted that will improve and facilitate their work. Given the limited time I have as an authorised representative, I will respect that and take the opportunity to say a lot more about the Red Cross on the subject of the amendment. The SPS Group and I, as a representative of the Committee on Health and Family, are in principle for a set of these five laws and we expect that a good part of our amendments will be adopted and that, to the satisfaction of all, we will vote in favour of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22068	I would like to thank the People's MP, Long-a-Lowered Dacin. The word has a folk MP, Dr Nikola Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22069	Dear President, fellow Members of Parliament, representatives of the government, whenever the law or anything relating to health matters is on the agenda, I think that the eyes of the public are wide open, because what we bring will be something that people, citizens of Serbia, will feel on their skin, above all. It's nice to be a doctor, I started in 1972, those were times when one doctor had absolute independence, so we were a little bit and uncritical in spending the funds. Huge funds have been spent on laboratory analysis and any other analysis. We felt independent and rich. Unfortunately, times are what they are. Today, first of all, the economic crisis, our economy is not working, and we know that in the new conditions this economy has funded health, much more than funds. We've come into a position that we simply have to conduct certain rationalizations. This set of laws that are on the agenda today, which should be passed, certainly has a lot of faults, because no law can be ideal. However, the law that goes forward for citizens and insurance is something that shows the shift of the best. It is difficult to comment today on this law with the position of MPs belonging to the ruling coalition, as a member of a completely different Renewal Movement, within the New Serbia 9+9 parliamentary group; we will support this law in principle, with what we consider to be incorrect, through the amendment we will try to correct, in a way. What we've been up to is that perhaps the failure of the promoter to talk about selected doctors, about pediatricians, not mentioning interns, because we believe that 60% of these selected intervention doctors who work are internal interventions. What we think is very important is the equalization of doctors who work privately -- private and state-run sectors. Today there is a private and state sector, which is not in an equal position. There's a paradox: in a rich world in the West, a rich man when he comes to a doctor, it's a shame he doesn't pay. Unfortunately, we have a paradox that whoever has the money comes to the state service and through numerous connections, protection does all the interventions, not pays. The one who doesn't, because he's waiting a lot, goes to the private and has to pay. The adoption of some laws that equalise private and state services, where the Fund's contract with private individuals is made possible would simply allow those people who do not have enough resources to be protected. With all the shortcomings these laws have, the parliamentary group of the Renewal Movement will vote for this law in principle, and we will make sure that the amendments we have proposed are accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22070	I thank National MP Nikola Jovanovic, the authorised representative of New Serbia 9+9. Are any of the other authorised representatives or heads of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word on this basis, we are moving to order in the application of MPs in a joint principled search against points 6 to 10. The first came from MP Vladan Vukicevic, of the New Serbia 9+9 parliamentary group. Get ready, Mr. Cvetanovic. Here you go, Mr. Vukevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22071	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are talking about a set of laws that are generally made up of a health system that should allow citizens of Serbia better, fairer and better-quality treatment, means better, fairer and better quality services by health institutions, private practices and of course doctors. Because of the time I have, certain laws will keep me here longer, and I will focus my attention on the health care law. The first law is the proposal for a health insurance law, which introduces a newspaper that there is voluntary and compulsory health insurance. Of course, when you say "voluntary insurance," there's not much to be discussed about, so insurance that's not binding. As far as this law is concerned, what is good in it is that all citizens of Serbia are insured and there are no unsecured persons. Of course, there is no law that in some ways could not be improved and improved, but in any case this is one law that will support New Serbia's parliamentary group. Another law is the Red Cross Bill, one organization that has done a lot in the past for those most endangered in this country. This law kind of gives extended rights to the Red Cross, which I think is good. The chamber law is a law that creates a certain dilemma between the private and social sectors; the private sector felt it should have its own chamber, but this law regulates a common chamber and, of course, through that law, it regulates obtaining licences, losing licenses, etc. However, it is also a law concerning only one branch, a certain group of people, and we and that law, although there are some disagreements and perhaps disagreements, support, because the law does not endanger the entire population of Serbia. The substance law is a very important law, which Serbia did not have until now, a law that in some way prevents the creation of opiates and, of course, a law that is useful, positive, and that law will be accepted with satisfaction. Because of the time I have, I left the most to say about the health care law. There is no worse curse than that curse. Of course, back in the '90s, Serbia had a system of health care that was extremely high-quality, but which perhaps we as citizens, and neither did we who were conducting health care at that time know that we respected. During that period, when the relationship of employees and pensioners was 5:1, the SIZs of health care had a lot of resources, and even those of us who carried out health care may not have in some way treated domestically with labour, medicine, and overall patients, all in some way used the grace they had, and this was disrupted from day to day. In the 1990s, the collapse of the former Yugoslavia has created major problems in this country, the country is coming into a major economic crisis and of course, and the health system, as well as everything in this society, is kind of starting to collapse slowly. There is a period of creating a good climate for bribery and corruption. We need to be honest - bribery and corruption have not passed either health care nor health care workers. In very difficult conditions, there were a lot of honest and honest health workers, who were honest and honest with the burden of that time, the burden of breaking things up in this country and in very difficult conditions, with minimum personal income, honest and fair, to do their job as a doctor and to allow Serbian citizens to still have sound health care under abnormal conditions. Of course, there were those who took advantage of the situation, who, by their work, conduct, demanded bribes from patients, also devalued and demoted those honorable people. That period has not passed the creation of a pharmaceutical mafia. During the period from the 1990s until today, the pharmaceutical mafia developed, and thus the developed pharmaceutical mafia found a health standoff and associated with a number of health workers. In all, one such picture violated the health system and in some ways made it worse to provide opportunities and treat vulnerable and sick citizens of Serbia. Of course, it was necessary to make a new law on health care, health insurance, or this whole package of laws, on a different basis, which will just regulate all those anomalies that have been happening in the past tense and that are happening in a good way today. A lot of laws have been passed in this House. All these laws should in some way contribute to society's development, to move forward and to allow for better life, standards and better conditions for Serbian citizens, to bring some things that were not good to order and in some ways we live like the whole normal world. Of course, there are laws that have been passed and that are in some way not directly touched by a citizen at all times. These laws relating to the health system, the social security law, are especially the health care law that a man encounters at the time of birth, throughout his life, and of course until his death. For these reasons, this law is so important. Of course, in some past years, there has been a lot where health care professionals, individuals, may have used certain legal options or used the situation where health care and Serbia were located, so they folded, in health institutions there were some extra-standard services provided to patients. Of course, many services had to be paid, but since there was no dispute in the law that this intervention and service would be paid, patients were in some way forced to sign some medical donation certificates so that they could be treated. The waiting list was something that was very interesting. That waiting list was too long for some, some failed to get their treatment, because of course they ended their lives before they were scheduled to report to their doctor. It was because of these extra-standard services and discrimination, who had the money could get a favor right away, and whoever didn't have the money had to be on that waiting list. And of course, there were always those people who knew someone, so somebody kept changing, someone came in early, and someone had to wait longer and it kept going. That's all that wasn't good. All of this law needs to be put in order in some way. What is very important, we all expected this law to appear in the Assembly; but since Serbia is going towards privatisation, towards Europe, and we know that in the past there has been, and today there is private and social health, great hope has been laid down in this law and we expected that private and social health will equalise, both in rights and in obligations. Of course, we failed, and here we are today discussing this law. Private and social health care has not been equated in both rights and obligations, but in some ways a discrimination of private health has been made against social health. Of course, I want to read to all of you here, and for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, one member, that is, Article 26, who simply says: "In the process of achieving health care, the patient has the right to have equal access to health services without discrimination in relation to financial opportunities, housing, type of illness or time of access to health care. "The exact period behind us marked discrimination, and as regards the type of illness, and the time of access to the healthcare service, and of course, to the greatest extent, as regards financial opportunities. I've invested six amendments, and I don't want to talk about how and in what way a private practice is discriminated against, because it concerns a group of people, a private person, but she's being discriminated here. I don't want to talk about the time I have. There are also contradictions in the law here, and one article says that private practice cannot deal with emergency medical care, and then another says that private practice is required to provide emergency medical attention. Of course, such contradiction should not be put into one law, because we know that emergency medical care is required to provide every citizen, especially one who has a driver's license. So he's also required to provide emergency medical attention. Of course, there are a lot of things here, but I would like to pay my attention to a member of 199 who is very specific and who is making discrimination and will create a great deal of interference, both for health workers and, of course, the greatest damage of all, will be patients and citizens of Serbia. I have to say that somewhere in the period when I was specializing in something similar, and according to the contract, it was at the clinic that I was working at, and that seemed to me in 1992, at the Maxilofational Surgery Clinic in Belgrade. During that period, he was able to conclude a contract with the university and the SIZ of health and patients could ask for services, with half the money being allocated to the university, i.e. The clinic, and half the money had a doctor back then. An honorable and honest man, an outstanding surgeon, Professor Pišticević was then the head of the clinic and I remember, when it came to life, I was at a specialization, it started to work. This caused major problems among health workers, large divisions. Of course, even patients could not have been satisfied with the work. It lived at the clinic for five or six months and then it was abolished. Of course, this famous member of 199 says and says this: "Health worker employed in a health institution and private practice, who works full-time, can perform certain tasks of health work from his profession with his employer", very important, "or another employer, outside of regular working hours, by concluding a contract of supplementary work with the director of a health institution, i.e. the founder of private practice. "I was just talking about bribery and corruption. I was also talking about the pharmacological mafia. I think this article 199 legalizes everything that has been so far: bribery and corruption, and the cooperation of certain doctors with the pharmacological mafia. Now it enters a large door, legalizes itself with one law, and the consequences will be the scariest of ordinary people, people who have no opportunities, relationships, and who have no opportunity to pay for their services. Namely, I would ask each MP what it would look like if someone had now decided to make a decision here or make a law that the judge had additional work. What does it look like if one judge were to judge by the letter of the law for the state in the morning, and one-third of his working hours were to be tried for money, and half the state, half of him? It'd be funny for everyone. I don't think that's possible. Also, I think this member and this one, if it's over, will make a big mistake. We also have that educators have the right to extra classes. Yeah, they're right, they're supposed to report their work, but they don't have the right to extra classes at their school and they don't have the right to give extra lessons to the kids they teach. I think this is one famous member of the big door, sort of legalized, like I said, bribery, corruption and the pharmacological mafia. Look, we said there, Article 26, no discrimination should be allowed either on the basis of finance or on the basis of time. Here's the discrimination. First, on the basis of finance, because this will only be used by those people who have financial resources to pay for the service in the afternoon work of the doctor who does it. Of course, here is discrimination based on time: those who have money will be able to come in the afternoon without waiting and without crowds. Those who don't, the unfortunate, will have to push and ask for help in the afternoon. What problems will this law and this famous member make? First, it is not good that this law did not foresee the way healthcare professionals in their institutions will be able to do additional work. What's going on? Kragueva's clinic, surgical clinic, there's about 35-36 general surgeons, they've got one infirmary. How will 30 of them agree on who will work and who will have the right to additional work and who will not have the right to additional work? It will immediately cause dissensions and quarrels. It's just impossible to survive. That's for sure. On the other hand, who's going to decide? Is that the director of the KBC or the minister? It's said that some sublaws will be regulated. Please, how are the sublaws? We know that we have legislative authority, executive power and judicial authority. The minister can't bring anything to the sublaws, because he's the executive authority. This brings legislative authority and this congregation. Of course, it is a problem that will cause a big problem for all citizens of Serbia. On the other hand, it's a conflict of interest. Don't let anyone tell me they're all gonna be able to control one-third of the time. Of course, when such patients are admitted and put to bed and they are scheduled for intervention, then the accompanying part that is needed for diagnostics: from consultation, certain analyses, videos. It'll all end up on the phone and maybe on a possible line; I'll tell you, you tell me the line; buddy, record it, you know, it's that patient, put the line, I'll tell you the line, there won't be any payments. On the other hand, like I said, conflict of interest; I really don't know how someone thought they could do it. They say they're going to introduce order and they're not going to feel it coming in on a regular basis. That's not true. If someone pays me, I have a duty to look at it tomorrow, so I look at it in more detail, because he paid me, I'm wasting more time. I say within a month of all the doctors who work in the supplemental work, the first task will be to engage around those patients who have paid, and that the price of such a member and this law will be paid by people who are not able to, have no connection, no money. In addition to dissociation among health workers, great confusion will be among the patients. I think this is going to be a big problem. In the end, I mean, this country is the way it is, it's been robbed, and everything that's happened, all the robberies... And that's why citizens are wondering why we can't arrest these tycoons, hohstapplers and thieves - because everything that's been robbed is being robbed on the basis of some legal regulations. Then the problem is that you have some legal regulations to arrest those guilty and those thieves. I have to say as a citizen, a patient, a man and an MP, I've invested five or six amendments, they're all important and they're all important, but one of the most significant is the amendment to Article 199. I am being fenced by a parliamentary group, as a man and an MP of this amendment, regardless of this health care law, I will uphold all the laws... The SPO-NS Group will support it, but I as a man, an MP, this health care law, since I am a health worker who has also worked as a medical technician, as a doctor specialist and a privateer, cannot accept. If the minister doesn't accept that this member of the 199th amendment, I won't vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22072	The word has the People's MP Goran Cvetanović, and then the People's MP Toma Busetic should speak, but just a little, excuse me, please. So then we'll have a break and we'll continue to work until the end, so after Mr Cvetanovic's presentation, we'll have a break and we'll continue today, as we announced, by the end of the principle debate, we won't go on after that. We will continue the session in particular tomorrow, based on an agreement with the heads of Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22073	Since I have already given the position of the Serbian Radical Party in my first presentation when it comes to the draft law on the chambers of health workers, and since the proposal for a law on substances used in the illicit production of intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances is a technical law, representatives of the SRS against the law have no objection, I will focus all my attention, i.e. to focus primarily on the health insurance law and health care law. According to the 1946 World Health Organization, health is a general value. Health is influenced by many factors, and health care is just one of these factors. Health legislation has an integral function in the engagement of all entities affecting the level of health and its improvement. Health care is a complex problem, which should be long-term planned and implemented, primarily on the principles of science, good experience in this area, especially successful countries in this area. The Health Protection Act should have a developmental character, to enable the construction of an efficient health care system, as well as a health care system, to cover the specificities of the region and respect tradition. The legal functioning of health services should be based on primary healthcare, primarily for the necessary rationalisation of consumption, which has been growing and exceeding even the economic potential of developed countries throughout the world in recent decades. It is therefore necessary to balance between needs and resources available. Over the past decades, there has been a change in the health care law in many countries, primarily in our environment, a alignment with new needs has been done, especially in creating conditions for applying the concept of primary health care, improving the quality of the environment, and even the entire health service. First of all, Finland has achieved really impressive results, it has created a balance between needs and resources. For effective primary health care, some other conditions should be provided, above all, for such a system of education of doctors of general practice, which is not the case in our country, decentralisation as a condition for the involvement of the wider community is required. The law should be adapted to the conditions and needs of both the Republic and local self-government, particularly when it comes to health conditions, economic and social conditions, environmental conditions, nutrition, housing, health culture, etc. There is a need to define, i.e. basic provisions, to define health care and to specify several provisions, and above all in four members of the law, and that is all that creates a relationship to health as a general value. The other 274 members talk about health care, as well as about the financing of all these health services. So it could be said that this is primarily the health care law, rather than health care, because the health care service is placed in the position of the only factor responsible for the state of health. The law does not define the conditions to be met by certain types of institutions, especially when it comes to personnel, equipment, space, organization. It is necessary to better define this, although Article 142 has been put into the minister's discretionary right to do such a thing, without any defined criteria. There is no such thing in any law of European countries. Dispanzers have been abolished as part of the application of healthcare. Some of the existing dispensers have been renamed to the institutions, see Article 102. This article cites one logic in the first position, where it is said that the Institute is a health institution that performs primary-level health work, and then in paragraph 4, the Institute of State Property of Section 2 of this Article can be based only on the territory on which the University's headquarters is located, which has a college of health professions in its composition. If you look at the second position of this member, then it remains that some things are not well defined. The 1972 regulation established a system of oncological health care for five regional oncology centres and over 30 oncology dispensers, trained for specific tasks in all institutions. The organization itself received a positive assessment of the World Union. Good results have been achieved. Now all these dispensers are being abolished, and oncological protection at the primary level is being conducted by doctors of general practice, primarily at home of health. The decentralization that is praised in this law is far less than the one already laid down in the 1992 law, even later when amendments and additions to the 1996 Law came. In the bill, founding rights are transferred to self-government, municipalities, the city, as well as provinces, mainly primary health care. The General Hospital, which directly cooperates with primary health care and meets many specific needs from its work for one or possibly more municipalities, remains in the competence of the Republic. Some of the ministers' competences are probably due to the lack of knowledge of the promoter, as Article 101 of Article 5 states: "A good apothecary practice as set out in Article 4 of this article is prescribed by the minister. "Apparently, the legislator does not know that good apothecary practice is an international standard and it cannot be in the competence of any minister. In Article 186, I would not like to quote it, the minister prescribes the type, duration and content of the specialization, as well as the narrow specializations, and the type and content of the specialization are above all, we must agree, the result of consensus of international professional associations and they are by nature international. There are also some language nonsense, particularly in Article 92: "The Minister sets a health institution at the territorial level that performs the tasks of the center for the control of the poisoning of the Republic. "I don't know what you meant by that, pay attention, it's defined as "the poisoning of the Republic." If you think the authorities or the ministry are poisoning the Republic, I may be in agreement, but I don't think that should stand in this bill. In any case, the powers conferred on the minister are not limited to any criteria, nor standards, not even international ones. When it comes to accreditation, Article 213 defines that accreditation, within the meaning of this law, is the process of assessing the quality of work of a health institution, based on the application of optimal levels of established health care standards. The question is therefore asked what accreditation is and what it is used for, when it is known that there is a recognised system of quality of JSO, which is certified and which is the only one with internationally recognised value. On the basis of which standards are made by a health care institution, when it is known that such standards do not officially exist, nor does this law foresee that they will be passed. It is obvious that the establishment of an accreditation agency is meant to have someone home first of all with good incomes, good salaries at the expense of a health dinar, because the other purpose is not really seen. The proposed health care law is in more than 90% of the health care law. As far as health care is concerned, it is only declared to be mentioned in the five first members. Good clinical practice as an international standard providing a high standard of quality in treatment – the law should ensure the introduction of this standard in all stationary institutions or at least third level institutions. Finally, health service standards, diagnostics, treatment and rehabilitation enable quality control primarily of health services. Standards allow the qualification of health services both in general and in individuals, above all, apply to healthcare professionals. All in all, in the health care law there are inaccuracies, ambiguities, as well as some other weaknesses of the proposed law. First of all, we can see the position of Article 2 which says that the primary objective of healthcare is to achieve the highest possible level of preservation of citizens' health, as well as families. In the World Health Organization act, adopted by the international health organization on 22 July 1946, one of the nine principles is the achievement of the highest possible standard of health is one of the fundamental rights of every human being, regardless of race, religion, political belief, economic and social conditions. If so, and should be the goal of this, the objective of health care cannot be taken into account at the level of health conservation, because the highest possible level of health conservation is only a phrase, which has no place even in the proposed law. Point 5 of the reasoning lists weaknesses and inadequate solutions in the existing system. The first is the decentralisation of founding rights, as well as the centralisation of decision-making on funds. Of the four possible decentralisation models, the bill promoter has been defined as a deconcentration because it allows him to retain, and even extend individual powers, to manage a complete health care system. The model of the revolution was introduced by the Law on Local Self-Government, but it primarily covers only the establishment of a primary health care facility, as well as the appointment of a director. The bill promoter has detailed the matter of patients' rights, primarily in the use of health care, and citizens' rights, and at the end of the day, there's not a word about the doctors' rights here. Point 15) of the arguments state the justified reasons for decentralisation, several have, three: better allocation of funds according to needs, involvement of local communities in decision-making on priorities and third, reduction of inequality. However, the proposed legislative solutions are not in that line, or at that level. I am sure that the legislator followed it would have brought about a balanced decentralisation system which, above all, advocates, but when it comes to practical solutions, there is no practical solution. Designed decentralisation used by the promoter so far is only known in literature, but practically not. As a major newspaper, health care is considered to be being achieved at the primary, secondary and tertiary level, which is really no newspaper, because it has existed in the world for decades. The goal of this division is to establish an efficient system, in which most of the needs are solved at the primary level, while the other two systems have the role to only provide support to the primary level. In the document, i.e. at the 15th point of the proposed strategy, starts with an assessment of health needs, the method of health promotion, as well as disease prevention, family-oriented health care, until the establishment of an effective system, that it was indeed wanted by the bill promoter, he would have made adequate proposals on the restructuring of health homes, as well as hospitals, mandatory quality indicators, as well as the effectiveness of the health system. As it's all done, it's not operational, it's declarative, and it's not going to give any positive effects, especially on the work of the health service. You have defined that the health care services are medical institutions and private practice. Very illogical and unusual terminology, because practice is one thing, and the institution is quite another. Why is it not said – a private and state-owned institution or a sector, which was quite appropriate? Private practice is limited exclusively to outpatient institutions. The same article states which activities cannot be dealt with, which is contrary to the Article 46 that you have proposed, including Article 10, where social care measures are listed. With these measures, first of all, there are no ones that are banned in private practice, as I said in Article 56, which is a criterion, which are criteria for that ban. If there are no measures in the domain of social care, why are hospitals completely excluded from another sector, first of all, I mean a private sector? What is proposed to overcome many problems? First of all, the term "chosen doctor" is introduced. First of all, the doctor is thinking about general medicine or medicine, which is still unclear why they identify themselves, whether the doctor will take care of the family. The chosen physician is a gynecologist, and a pediatrician, as well as a dentist. This brings great confusion, if it is not said that the chosen doctor is not a family doctor, but its members, especially if it means a member of the 99th proposed law where a male sex citizen can choose a pediatrician or a gynecologist for the selected physician. No matter what the assistant minister laughs, some things in the law have to be clearly defined. The bill promoter did not want the introduction of family medicine, as recommended by the World Health Organization, to which they are constantly called. If the promoter had taken into account the 2002 European definition of family medicine document, he would have proposed solutions that work effectively in Europe, we would not have any confusion here with these terms. After all, do the survey, you have opportunities. As a representative of the Serbian Radical Party, I guarantee you that at least 70% of the citizens would say that they would like all family members to be treated with one doctor. This was an ideal opportunity to restructure health homes, which could primarily have teams of family medicine, in the first line, with the support of both gynecologists and pediatricians. I just said about accreditation, but to repeat that it's not a newspaper, it's set up in a very bad way. If she is the founder of the state and is entrusted with certain competences from the domain of the state administration, should accreditation be voluntary? The assessment of quality of work through accreditation could replace oversupervised supervision of professional work, which the law retains continues to call it - checking the quality of professional work. Standards should not be included in the accreditation agency's tasks, as this is done in countries that have accreditation by consensus of the service provider. The supervision of professional work shall be subject to procedure. It is not the purpose and essence of the procedure, as the question is raised on the basis of which criteria and criteria are being carried out. In one place it is said – according to the achievements of modern science and the code of professional ethics, which is arbitrary. The chapter on health technologies is really unspeakable. It's about procedure in an extremely general way. The ministry should adopt an act laying down the technologies, which makes it an assessment of the application. The bill is very intense. Did it need to be drawn to 278 members, half of whom are just declared? This law has newspapers, but cannot be considered reformable, because it does not solve problems that are listed in the explanation as the most important reasons for its adoption. I think the minister will have to put a lot of sublegal acts after this law, because large and unnecessary powers are given to the minister. For precisely these reasons, representatives of the SRS will not vote in favour of the health care law. I'm just going to point out the views of the Serbian Radical Party on the health insurance law. The reasons for the adoption of this law are almost entirely identical to the reasons for the adoption of health care laws. There are several reasons on which the proposer has designed such adoption, in particular the reduction of public consumption, the gradual decentralisation of powers from the level of the Republic Office to branches and the creation of competition in the area of additional insurance. The central place of this law is a package of compulsory health insurance, i.e. health services provided by the means of compulsory health insurance, which is a member of the 45th of this bill, where 100% payment is provided. What the representatives of the SRS have the biggest grudge, is that this bill covers a category of up to 26 years old, students and students, and the elderly, as well as the difficult physical and mental impediment in development. I'll remind you that in the current law, the limits for the exercise of that right were 65 years, even 70 years of age. In this way, a group of old people has been discriminated against, above all, I think of the difficult physical or mental interference in development. That's why it took a lot more quality to do this. Diseases include rheumatic diseases, and there is no condition that directly endangers health, i.e. life, above all, acute myocardial infarction, stroke, open bone fracture, severe burns, while the whole of Article 45 has been established without serious professional analysis, since, above all, it refers to 100% payment, to services that represent the broadest need of all insured persons and to those of greater socio-medical significance. That is why we believe that the bill promoter had to pay much more attention to this category. The promoter has chosen an unusual approach to the drafting of this law. The mandatory insurance covered all categories of the population, just in case, and those he recorded did not. First of all, it refers to Article 22. All shall be provided with complete health care, coordinated with the means available through participation. It's okay. In order for this approach to be confirmed as truly sustainable and good, it is necessary to add some of the things that are missing in this bill, which are: what are the real health needs and how much resources are needed for this; how much resources are needed for the implementation of Article 45. The law would also have to go with a document on scope, content of the health care standard, because it is the only way to assess the necessary resources. There's no reason to say that. It's unacceptable to adopt the law of the greatest interest in any individual, and you have no idea how much it's going to cost. If the task is to reduce consumption in this area, then it had to come from the means available, to include the rights on the basis of, above all, two main principles: preserving the biological integrity of the people and achieving, for our conditions, an adequate level of social justice. First of all, the question arises who is in control of the institution's obligations, what are the rights of health institutions in this regard? There are a lot more to be said, but I will only say one more sentence on the Red Cross Bill of Serbia, given that amendments have been adopted, and my and Mr Nemanje Sarovic, and I hope that the government, at a meeting that is under way, will adopt some more amendments. I will only make a major remark by the SRS, which is that the Serbian Radical Party's view that the Red Cross of Serbia cannot exercise public authority and carry out public-interest tasks, because this is what the government of the Republic of Serbia should do, through competent ministries.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22074	As we said, after the break, which will be up to 15.10 hours, the word will have the following MPs: Toma Busetic, Mileta Poscurica, Vesna Lalic, Miroslav Nedeljkovic. Thank you very much, and I repeat once again that today we will only be working until the finale of the original search. [[After break – 15.20]] Good afternoon. We'll continue after the break. I remind those who did not follow in their parliamentary clubs or in the O.R. today that we will be working until the end of the united principled debate on health laws. The People's Messenger Toma Busetic, then the People's Messenger Mileta Poscurica, the People's Messenger Vesna Lalić, and the People's Messenger Miroslav Nedeljković. Here you go, Mr. Bushetti.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22076	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministry, for the SPS parliamentary group in the set of these laws is certainly the most important law on health insurance. I will pay particular attention to the solutions, the key provisions of the health insurance law. What's most important at this point is that all these laws that were passed after 5 October, relating to labour and social legislation, health insurance laws, means all those solutions relating to pensioners, employed, unemployed insurance companies, all these laws were rigid, with restrictive solutions, with reduced rights, both pensioners, workers, unemployed persons, and in this case, when it comes to this law, talk about the restriction of insurance rights. Short to remind, when we passed pension laws during 2001, and all the following years, all these restrictive restrictions applied to the way pensions were aligned, the accounting system, the constant rise in age. When laws were passed in the field of labour legislation, such as the Labour Act, we also had very difficult provisions, and when we talk about firing workers, paid leave, annual vacations, cash fees, severances, and when we talk about this law, which I consider to be the key law. In this set of laws, we have several very important provisions that are extremely restrictive under insurance rights. At the very beginning, when we talk about funeral expenses, in the proposal for this law in Article 9, we have a proposal for the Ministry to delete these rights. We believe in these provisions regarding the use of the right to funeral expenses by families for the insurance companies who have died that right should be left behind. It's about the law that existed decades after the war to this day. It is a law that exists in many other countries and countries of the world. On the other hand, some special financial effects, if this right is abolished, are not so great, given that the financial plan of the Health Insurance Office is for this year or for next year, however, about 100 and a few billion dinars, this is about 750 million or 0.76%. These are small funds and are hardly likely to improve slightly more significantly in the health care system. It is possible otherwise to perform certain rationalisation, standardisation or typing of medical equipment, better control of public procurement. I think all of this would have a much bigger effect than we're going to have with this solution to end funeral expenses. For us in the SPS, the key thing is to introduce participation; at a small or large door, however you like, participation is introduced in article 45. That participation ranged from five to 35 percent. We believe that this key provision is in direct contrast with our program, with our policy. The Socialist Party of Serbia has always advocated, and such a policy has led, that health insurance, or health care must be free of charge. For example, if we are talking specifically about individual solutions related to this Article 45, stationary treatment, so hospital treatment will be participated by insurance, by patients, by patients with 20%. In some conditions, it can be a very large asset. If someone were to be treated for a month or two months, a invoice would arrive at 100 or 200 thousand, that participation would be 20 or 40 thousand. These are huge funds for a large part of the country's population in Serbia. Even for these solutions related to intensive care or complex operational procedures, where it is said that the participation and participation of patients, the patient, is only 5%, we believe that these funds can also be extremely large, huge, and that they are a factor in the prevention of patients, the patient being treated. There are expensive services. It's not just a hospital day. It's expensive preparations, we know how much surgery costs. I used to follow it, the operations were 20-30 thousand marks; the accounts were huge. What it's going to mean, because that 5% is an extremely large asset and a great burden on the insurance company. The minister will most likely say – it's not realistic what you're talking about in the SPS, it just doesn't have enough resources, we need to adapt to the situation as it is. According to us, it is very important that all rights are recorded in the law, even if there is no means for all these purposes, the needs of patients. We just have a situation and we know all kinds of refunding systems. If at some point, and that moment is common, there's not enough resources in the Health Insurance Office, there's a system of refund. The refund is paid in six months or a year. Sometimes that refund can be worth a few years later. But what's most important -- that right exists. I'm deeply convinced, a government debt to individuals never fails. This is the worst solution when it is said in the beginning – for hospital treatment 20% is for intensive care, for complex surgery will be 5%, and this is a slightly higher percentage; I think it is a fatal solution. How can we solve this? In some way, the minister will say – there is not enough money. We can push for an increase in the rate of contribution. Why not increase the contribution rate? Is there something more important and more important in a country and society than health care? There's nothing more to it - no education, no more, nothing more important than the treatment of patients. As you all know, the only wish of every sick one is to heal. No need to run away from increasing the contribution rate. On the other hand, many countries know of additional rates of contribution, additional taxes. We in this country Serbia, as you can see, have a large number of tycoons, so many rich people, whose capital is measured by billions; on all ranks they are in the world, Europe, at the very top. But it's not just about them. I am almost convinced that there are hundreds of thousands of people in Serbia who have huge capital. So, introduce extra taxes, contribute to those people who have a lot. That would be the only right and only real solution. We can talk about any time. If we're talking about the weather after October 5th, 1,000 companies have been sold the budget; a thousand owners have become rich overnight. These people are now the owners of a 1,000 square-square business space. You think they're paying for some special contributions? So there's a modus, there's a solution to filling out the Health Insurance Institute or the Republic Fund, as we say popularly, in a much better way. On the other hand, we are aware that all the members of this government, as well as members of the previous government, means that everyone who was in power after 5 October, is seriously considering what the IMF, the World Bank, international financial organisations say. I have repeatedly said in this assembly that it is not necessary to listen to international financial organisations at all costs. International financial organisations always want, even in this case, to reduce public spending. Why do they want to reduce public spending? They want their debts returned as soon as possible. That's one. Another more important thing, many world analysts, theorists, economists, thinkers, such as Chomsky, such as Stiglic spoke of the international financial organization's robbery campaign against all countries, including their people. We can't make a good example of America if we're talking about social security. In America, 50 million people don't have a health book, and out of that number 30 million are children. Is there justice here? We can't look up to them. If these international financial organisations don't care about their people at all, for their country – because the queen and the IMF and the World Bank are the United States, no matter what the directors change, so often the director of the IMF from Europe, the World Bank from America, or turn it around, it doesn't matter at all, it's all handled by America – it's certainly not going to worry about us, what they care about is what's going on in Serbia. So we're against participation and our amendments refer to it. We believe that the effects with these participations for the Health Insurance Fund will not be great, and on the other hand, this will be a huge pressure on all the insurance companies, on all the people who are sick. Of course, if we talk about the law we have a number of other objections, we believe that the law has a number of other shortcomings. For example, when we talk about abolishing travel costs within a branch, we have a really absurd situation that can happen. The minister is from my neighborhood and he knows that, for example, insurance companies from Svilinec can be treated in Paracino, we have excellent doctors in Paracino, we had Dr. Stevanović, many went to him. The mileage is 55 or 60. So there's no charge for travel expenses. On the other hand, there will be charges between one branch and another, where the distance from the infirmary to the hospital is 20 kilometers away. I think that needs to be fixed. When we talk about the shortcomings of this law, we have a few more objections: tightening the conditions for the payment of sick leave, erasing these dental services completely for most of the population. Our big remark is about the status of the circuitry. It's almost amazing that the circuitry doesn't report to anyone. We now have the situation to turn out that the Republic Institute is in charge from Belgrade to Vranj, Bujanovac, and for Vojvodina is not in charge. I think that needs to be fixed. The province's office must have the same status as all branches in Serbia. When we talk about the relationship between the state and the private sector, when we talk about the health care law, we in the SPS always advocate the state sector. The state sector is better, fairer, more solid, not efficient enough, but the state always has the opportunity to bring the state sector's efficiency to the right level. The private sector cannot be treated the same as the state sector, although this big issue, which Dr Vukevic spoke of, as regards the work of doctors in public institutions in the afternoon, will they use the time mainly for this work in the afternoon, and in the morning when they work in the state service for that salary to be kind of minimised. A few more things, regarding the speech of fellow Maric. He was saying, among other things, that the worst time had passed, the time of sanctions, is now getting better. Unfortunately, colleague Maric, I don't think the worst time is over. It's a big question of whether it's the worst time. I don't think so. He was talking about the messy payment of contributions, the companies weren't working. Believe that the laws are such that both taxes and contributions are more regular, but we have another big problem: a large number of companies and businesses have shut down, there is nothing going on, there people just don't work. We have a thousand firms like that where people don't work at all. No salary, no taxes, no contributions, no nothing. When we talk about the better time, I don't believe it. He said that unfortunate wars happened to our country; yes, we were all forced, and I guess it is clear to all of us in this assembly that the international factor has not changed for iota when it comes to relations with the Serbian state and the Serbian issue. After all, they want to abolish Resolution 1244, to carry out a revision of the Dayton Agreement. A colleague talked about it, even though it's not the subject of this law. In the end, I want to point out once again our programming goals, which we will not stand down from. There's one thing that's left in place. Every insurance company should have a health book, it has to be secure, regardless of whether he was unemployed, whether he was a farmer. It's one of the highest reach of socialism, a socialist society, must remain in force. The second thing we insist on is that health insurance and health care must be free of charge. If there is not enough resources, another solution can be sought – increasing the rate of contributions, introducing additional contributions and taxes for these richest. At the very least, the government debt has never failed. The worst thing to do is wipe it out of the law. Then there is no chance of anything being done, and on the other hand, a large number of poor people in Serbia will be left without the most elementary right, and that is the right to live, because they simply will not be able to heal.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22077	The word has the People's MP Mileta Poscurica, so the MP Vesna Lalic, Miroslav Nedeljković, and Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22078	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are today passing a set of laws that we cannot say are neither reform, nor bear the marking of the particular innovations, and, in particular, new benefits, which are made available to citizens who are users of health services. More likely, we are in one continuity of the laws we already had, which have only suffered an additional deterioration. In fact, there are no reform events for a five-year period, no one here has come out clearly, and the minister has practically supported two governments. In one, he was very larvated, until this last one formed, survived while his work was being done by deputies, exposed. The minister waited somewhere in a laryng form and re-emerged the same minister, meaning the trust that one and the other known group as DOS and this one, as some new DOS variant, has accepted that it runs such an important portfolio. So he didn't find it appropriate to come up with a clear concept of health care, health insurance, health nets, what should be fundamentally changed here, who should present such a plan and programme. One declaration was made in Mladenov, where general principles were defined, under the influence of different foreign agencies, those who actually carried the financial structure of that meeting, paid a lot of diaries or what else, but also cared about it was not defined, so today, for example, it comes out with such legal proposals that do not even have defined basic packages of health services. A citizen, finding himself based on whatever security status he actually doesn't know what he's going to get for free. It even says 100%, and it won't be 100%, because it's going to pay for the review, the participation for the cure, and then it's going to experience that despite all that, it's going to go to the standard service level to wait for some kind of operation, it means waiting again, and if you don't want to wait, you're going to have to pay. Many legal solutions go with the order... Even that famous category of some supplemental work, additional additional work at the facility, is just a more elegant way to translate patients from the status of the waiting list into the status of a faster opportunity to operate, since there are really no other explanations, and that will have to pay, because otherwise they won't be able to, that someone is working in his working time. Now we're going in line on the whole law. We are talking about the fact that the reform can't be considered a fact that will only be extended, which is a condition in which the orgy of pharmaceutical financial mafias, whose previous laws on medicines, which we passed last year, are given the green light that through different boards, formed under this law and under the proposal of this law, at the level of the Republic, at the level of stationary institutions in the state sector, is given the green light, where these ethical committees of the Kobajags are allowed to verify something, agree. What's the point? The drug studies are being conducted which are mainly examined against the code that has been passed in the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, where then on our intervention that we do not believe in all the befels that go along with the medicine (a certificate of good manufacturing and laboratory practice and other) that we still do check every batch of drugs that comes, even on the side. Now, for medicines that come from the side, which import renowned houses, for some I hear that they went to Miskovic, fat and are fundamentally paid by Serbia so-called. projects to prove that the medicine is effective. Of course, 406 euros per patient, 20, 40, 50, patients, 2-3 doctors, so you see what that's like. Some go to visas, some work, others do projects, and it's a disassembly with a basic legal basis, nobody can do anything to them, an ethical committee gets a nice deal – you, me, me to you, and it goes well. For nothing, the right of a patient who regulates himself here so he can give up. It's said to the patient - if you agree to try it, it's called medical experimentation, etc., you'll benefit, because that drug will eventually give you credit. We have to and we have the right to suspect that these are fundamental structural arrangements, structural relations. New homes are being introduced for the same medication. Some have already won the market and new ones are coming. Some doctors who prescribed drugs from that group of serious medications to replace and correct anaemia, according to some information or at least television, are in prison because they allegedly prescribed drugs from the list at a time when it was not approved. The medications were spent by patients, the doctor in prison pays and answers because he was spending the medicine he gave the patient. How legal it is, and how much of the elements are criminally out of it, so I'm not defending the procedure myself, but the fact that it's true to the media is that someone who prescribed the cure, even if the ministry didn't approve it, because it had to go through someone else's signature, etc. It's not exactly what the doctor himself could get and yes. So anything is possible with us. And, the other side, finally, legal acquisition quite a good use, and yet through the twisted fine coastal legislation that exists. We're also dealing with the so-called. Health surplus, extra employees, if that's what we consider a reform event, and it's possible it is. I don't know, if we've got extra employees, how we're going to organize a duty that only ten hours a week will be able to keep an eye on a week. How many doctors should have the least to ensure duty or, conditionally, the director will be able to organise differently and have 20 hours of duty. How is this going to look and from where suddenly a surplus, when there is a growing requirement for providing health services and when there are more and more of those who are looking for help and waiting longer on lists, even with grim diagnosiss such as malignant diseases, hips, cardiovascular surgery, prosthetic replacement, coronary interventions, etc. So, serious surgery. Often, the minister, how much I've listened to on a few shows, and his representatives are reported live by viewers (and our directors, of course), and they say, "How come I was on the list, like, 181, so I'm waiting for a few months, so I'm 250, so how is that possible?" It is not possible, but measures are being created to overcome the position on the list; therefore, the poor are obviously not coming. The phenomenon of the waiting list that's been introduced here is also officially legal, now no one can do anything to him. He's been under a regulation so far, under a decision. Now that he's legally appointed and this is how it's gonna go down, so whoever waits alive, and whoever doesn't wait can complain to the minister or the ministry. When we talk about the law itself, we can say that there are a lot of declarative provisions, it's quite extensive. Even some items, for example, in Article 28, which speak of the right of the patient, seem unnecessary and so gross... Look, a nurse passed school, highly specialized, and knows how to treat a patient. Each doctor learns that through several clinical cases how to treat himself. You know, there you'll all be fine with the patient and smoothly, up to the details elaborated and spent two pages on that description, and then, let's say, in some other laws they say simply – well, the patient has all the rights and rights to top care. The patient, either a patient, or a citizen, is guaranteed the right to the health care of the highest level. It's all in one sentence. What's 50 sentences to describe one line? So, that looks pretty shallow, smooth, like we think about citizens, but it says there -- you have the right to tell him how much it's going to cost him, so you can tell him whether the intervention hurts or doesn't hurt. I mean, sometimes up to some perverse details put into law, and there are much more important provisions, where very clearly some very important things will be defined. The question of the plan, the question of the network, the question of position, let's say, interns within the chosen doctor, some much more important things. The criteria for accreditation will now bring us a chamber, and the attitudes around the chamber, at least as far as these engaged political public are concerned, are divided. We don't all think that the chamber, as the concept is given, should be accepted as well. From the health insurance sector, so I would really repeat everything the predecessor said and I totally agree with most of what he said. It is indeed new restrictive relations, which have been introduced by this law. We see that they will be participated with five percent lying in intensive care and 35 percent testing sterility. So what do we talk about the white plague and everything? I don't know, top-notch, super technology that's being used in diagnostics will have to be paid. Now who's going to decide what's top-of-the-line, super technology, extremely important technology in the diagnostic process? It will probably go into the sublegal act and everything that seems more important to us will go into the sublegal act and into the hands of ministers and co-workers in the vault. So we see that it's not exactly the best solution. It's better to put something crucial and important into the law, so that neither the minister nor his "body of the wise", this advice that they form, make some different decisions and analyze the motion of the situation, and then we'll make all the laws and then we'll form a national health union, or whatever it's called, and he'll oversee the strategy and ideas, proposals and some descriptive scribomanic ideas, and already the laws work. When in a year, or as much as I don't remember, in transitional terms, we form that body, it will look and monitor and analyse and evaluate and gather everything that is written at the level of preventive measures and they will do everything. They're supposed to be educated people, academics, people of names and names. Then they will create the concept of a future health strategy. We've passed the laws now, and it means the minister thinks we'll be changing the laws quickly if these people work in a safe way. Some socrealist categories such as social care, etc., I mean, will say clearly – the care of the state for health, the care of the individual about health, the care of the employer about health and his obligation and responsibility, we go to the very clear definitions. Why social and why something is stretched, clouded, everyone can be responsible and not have to be responsible. This one divorce is unnecessary, at least at this historic moment in which Serbia is located. That cardio is no longer necessary. Human rights and values, and that's in the fifth chapter, I've really said a lot about this declarative demagogy, about the availability of protection at all levels. I think it's the ultimate demagogue clause. What's available here when he leaves tomorrow and waits for the health lab at the primary level, waiting for the turn of the blood to come out and how to catch the risk factor? And when he waits, in five, six, seven days, he has to pay for it. It's full of demagogues. We see that the tendency is to pay. The right to inform about the disease, and the pain, and the questioning and the medication... Even pharmacists are legally obliged to participate in a very important... And not to bid here now with terms: implement preventive measures (watch out, pharmacist); then, rationalise the cost of treatment and therapeutic protocols, monitor interaction, etc. These are pharmacies that are likely to cross, although the status is not clear yet, at the level of local self-government, so I guess they will be financed by the fund, I don't think poor municipalities and pharmacies will be able to finance, although it's possible and it's clearly written somewhere. Five laws to keep in mind and read on such short notice, even if I have overlooked it, although it remains unclear. In a conversation with pharmacies who closely followed the ministers' actions about it, I learned that they are not clear what the status of the pharmacy will be either. What's important, we're clear and taxing, you can't give the cure without a prescription. We need to know sometime. Look, you can do this medicine, because it's going to the recipe, because on the list, whether or not it is, and in the state pharmacy, it's more or less wanted. Even in state, you can buy a lot of drugs, even hormonal nature, without prescription, and not talk about private. If he's in private, there's some kind of blank recipe and he's on some paper, and that pharmacist doesn't keep it. There's no history of repeating or betraying again. It's amazing, if you let medicines like that be taken freely, so how will the pharmacist, and legally required to take care of interactions. When a patient comes and takes a prescription for a particular medicine and in the morning to a doctor, a selected doctor (and that's just a special story about how okay that category is), then he goes to the pharmacy and picks up the medicine. Then he goes out and goes home and meets someone at the market, and he says, "It's not good for you, go get "ampicilin," and this guy gives "pentrexil," he says -- that's great. He goes and buys another for his money. He is not obliged by the pharmacist to know physionomy and characters, and plus that enables technicians to have the opportunity to betray and work on the recipe. They've been working so far. I don't know any criminal charges for drugstores who made a mistake, because I know about doctors who took all the bribes you want. I know for a fact that there was no vaccine for the flu and that this year it was less and that last year something staged the game was about it. I know it happened, the whole public knows that many children were infected with HIV, the jaundice in Chačka. We all know a lot, and we don't know much that the tech didn't exactly hit the recipe, so he can't work without a pharmacist. In the larger city environments, pharmacists sit more or less in the back and lead the administration and drink coffee and are still technicians out front. We can't, if we want to bring the pharmacies down to the level, except the pharmacies of this little manual pharmacy or what they're called right now, so we don't make a mistake in the nomenclature, you can't get so many pharmacists for everyone. Does this mean that in strict application of the law, you're going to close down the pharmacies in the countryside? That would be a scandal. Who will believe you and tell them, doesn't know the pharmacist Micah or Mira, who worked for 25 years and knew her all her life and did nothing to anyone, and suddenly she doesn't know from this authority and this minister turns out that she doesn't know how to betray drugs and there's no pharmacist. Or you will let go, as he is now working in our town of Kragujevac – 30 and a few students have entered private pharmacies and now we are giving money to the school of chemistry and two-thirds of the income and everyone pays it out of their pocket. If the university were good and valid, it would be recognised by the state and it would have budgets, not just self-financed. Is that the way to hyperproduction? What I'm doing, I'm touching this when I'm in this story about a continuous medical education that you often try to push us into the story that we're against. No speech, we're not, but as it's almost understood, especially from those institutions that are conducting it, which are colleges, it's not health institutions, but scientific institutions, educational institutions are more or less engaged, now they've opened the site, there's a department, it's called continuous medical education. It is in the law exactly and well written, it is professional gatherings, conventions and the kind of education being conducted, that category, now it has become the best model for someone to take 3,000 to come listen to half an hour, two, three of what they want, to pass the test. In advance, all the general questions, more or less, if not announced, no one will refuse, because he gave the money, who won't give him the right to confess the test. That's where you eat some kevap, you have a drink, it's from 10 to 16 hours, and he's carrying a certificate. That certificate will be valid for at least five years. Let's say - we don't want that kind of education to be conducted, why we run into some future events if it doesn't matter to us now, if the primary criteria for the license of the diplomas that we've acquired, and that medical education is that kind of thing, modelly implemented, where they just race, because many colleges send their teachers, with a purse and a bow, going around the homes of health and saying – we'll come to you to keep, you'll get important paper, and it costs, because the law says that the director should give free days to a healthcare professional who goes to be educated in the context of education, does not say that he should pay for his participation. Then what happens? Then the doctor will have to go to the pharmaceutical house to pray if they give three or four thousand or how much for participation, then he will have to write his medications, and it is public secret that many pharmaceutical houses keep a parallel list, even where the codes of patients who have the medicine are written and thus are rewarded by doctors, lead them to Vranjska Banja, revolve around Serbia to hear something and see something, but they favorably write the medicine of a certain pharmaceutical house. It is much more advantageous for those who are doing projects, who are doing medical research on a drug that has long worked in Germany. It probably works on the Germans, and it doesn't work on ours, so let's try one of these on our own. Even if it were to be here and to prove that the cure was right and to make that statement at the congress, none of that work would happen if it didn't pass into the fund, and to pass the fund, you know what that means, how it could be, we have the right to think about it too. Many parallel drugs appear, even from homes that are not prestigious in that area. We know who they are, very specialised, and we know who appear as pioneers in that profession, but that's the reality, it's legally official, and this law just confirms it and gives a further sign that it continues. The chosen doctor – you see, we've quite escaped from the idea that we're benefiting from family medicine, that the doctor of family medicine is something that's been officially spoken of very much; it's not something that was an abstraction of certain political parties. So, if the doctor were to tie himself to the family, if he came back to the traditional, if you wanted both the Anglo-Saxon and the Western health development orient, we wouldn't be too wrong. We're starting out at our universities of high-school medical schools who are fostering our family medicine doctors, and they're even going to master because of the narcissistic law on higher education. It's gonna be a master's office, and it's about high school kids, nurses, basically. He's going to become a high-end expert, and he's going to be a master of family medicine. What are they gonna do? Everything they learn, learn fundamentally and conditionally, learn to some extent, diagnostics to some extent, and it is absolutely impossible to separate the nadal law on higher education and this health care law, as it concerns something. There is clearly a limited duration of specialization, and this law mentions subspecialization and the right to go, and this is a better solution than what we had in education, but it's cohesion. When we had a debate about what we would do for intoxicating drugs, for traffic, we agreed to withdraw our amendments, not to go chasing the word - natural products, to insert some plants, Indian hemp and red macaque that would be resources for intoxicating drugs. We've agreed to arguments by the government's representatives, there's another law that regulates, although de facto we could insist on going and explaining to the people why we're against Indian hemp, against the red macaque as a natural substance or a extract of seeds, the inspection will chase him, if you take some dried grass or seed, then the inspection will let him go. That's what some other law is about. I'm saying that there could also be coordination here between the proposals that are in this legal solution on health care and the solutions offered in the law on higher education, which are in complete discretion. Complementary work only opens up a chance for another takeover to the people. There won't be a lot of motivated doctors for 50% of the profit of working in their institutions, but there is a time limit to how much they can devote themselves to supplementing work and the fact that then in the supplemental work they will do what they can't do in regular working hours... And what if it's some kind of surgery, it's not just an ultrasound, what if someone wants to do cataracts, wants to do a TUR prostate, I want to do a appendix, a hernia, don't give God malignancies, someone who knows it's on the waiting list with breast malignancy, and it's done twice or three times a week, can calculate how long it takes to wait, so it cuts off the metastasy. He'll go this afternoon, maybe it's not like that, but the law doesn't say that it is, but that he has the right to be provided with a health care service. What's he gonna say when he's in surgery, he's got to leave it in place, what's the explanation that this patient didn't lie down, but only after the surgery that was done in the afternoon can he stay in the hospital. Why couldn't he come to bed in the morning and do the health care fund's expenses? Somehow some things aren't drinking, leaving a lot of opportunities for those who are interested. A lot of doctors are going to go into private practice, do some sort of examination, rather than do it in the afternoon, and take 10 of them around one ultrasound, because you don't have a lot of ultrasound devices around the hospital. It's even less likely that the one from private practice will come to the hospital to kidnap those doctors there, and that variant was developed on the Committee, to take their appointment and to work there. It's more the other way around. As far as the Ethics Committee is concerned, we have it on three levels: an ethical committee that forms the Republic, in chambers and in every hospital. It's simply a matter of some kind of subordination, a matter of jurisdiction whether it's really the same legal act, whether it's the same matter, because it's impossible for the Ethics Committee, but it's not going to be ethical advice, or called the Ethics Committee if I'm wrong, not to prescribe the rules of conduct of the Ethics Committee of Clinical Centres and Hospitals, health institutions. Then it's the same and the end of the story. This one formed up, not--this one has its own standard, its own criteria. The question is how many other things he will solve, at least he will not solve those who will solve the Ethics Committee of Medical Chambers and have the right to engage in much more serious problems. So these were the declarative parts, segments, we didn't follow the amendments, which is why we don't think we can support this kind of legal project, primarily the health care law and the health insurance law. As for intoxicating drugs and drugs, we'll see and about it, we don't have any particular objections, because the law of technical nature, it's quite well done, we just thought we'd improve it in some segments and make sure that something else that could result in intoxicating drugs or psychotropic substances, but we agreed. We were cooperative, we agreed to withdraw those amendments. As for these other segments, let's say this health care section, suspending the deceased's family's right to compensation for funeral expenses – that's terrible. It was the last hope for the poor when someone died, aside from the great cost of the burial site, and this compensation and what is left for them now, that their local administration would, and the question of what it would be. It will again cover the people, put people's money, so it is done in Serbia, and it will cover the people as long as they can solidarity against bad laws and bad authorities, but they won't be able to do it for long. It is not a compliment for the government to abolish the existing rights and rights that the insurance companies had, but to increase and improve their situation, and it is not an opportunity to compare our and Japanese standards as they now go more restrictive and compare insurance, because getting to Japan quickly is a much shorter path than it is here. It may cost more, but it's a different standard and quality of life and it's a lot different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22079	The word has a folk MP Vesna Lalic, and the next MP is Miroslav Nedeljković, so Velimir Simonovic, and Božidar Koprivica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22080	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, by proposing health care laws, health insurance laws and laws on chambers of health workers, as well as these two accompanying laws on the Red Cross and the Precursors of opiates, the Ministry of Health, along with health care, health insurance and other social sectors, are trying to solve the accumulated problems, despite the difficulties our country faces during the transition period. Control of health change should lead to such a system in which the joint operation of the public and private sector in the provision of health services will provide the public with a health care system in which equal access to services will be made possible within the framework of an effective organisation and real resources. Such services will be based on modern technology and modern scientific methods, supported by effective preventive and promotional activities in all relevant social sectors. The future principle of solidarity must be important for decision-making and decision-making, and must be continuously respected at all levels. The healthcare user must always be at the centre of attention of those who make decisions at the political, administrative and professional level, as well as service providers. Although the goal must be to direct all necessary resources to provide the best possible health care, development in the coming years must take into account financial constraints conditioned by our country's economic capabilities. Directly with the transformation of the health care system, the decentralisation process, which is very important, in my opinion, in the decision on the collection and distribution of funds and personnel in the health care system. This is because the health of the population is not a static category, but a dynamic process, for which maintenance requires organised efforts to preserve and improve health and strengthen health potential in all stages of life. Special activities are necessary during those critical periods which pose specific health challenges, such as early childhood, youth and age. The health inequality is most often manifested by those groups or individuals whose health needs are strongest in health care or in form and content that does not meet their needs. This needs to be overcome by applying equality, justice and solidarity mechanisms so as to reduce health differences and public health protection. The importance of public health activities and services is highlighted through: creating infrastructure that will enable health promotion, developing partnerships in the context of health promotion infrastructure, in particular partnerships between the state and private sectors and NGOs; encouraging better funding and health-experienced work values, as necessary constituent components of the employment of every healthcare worker, both in the state and in the private sector; stimulating specific financing mechanisms, applied in practice to those preventive activities that are evidence that lead to improving the health status of the population and the extension of the life span, primarily to stimulate healthy lifestyles. Then, staff, material, information, management and other training of health institutions, such as institutes, health care institutions and other institutions of national importance for certain areas of health protection. The transformation of the healthcare system will provide different payment models, compensation to service providers for their work, reception, or payment by a freely defined citizen in primary health care or budget financing for stationary health institutions. Afterwards, improved contracting of services between service intermediaries, i.e. mandatory supplementary or private health insurance and public or private health sector service providers with clear, defined criteria for the negotiation and control of contractual obligations. Transparency primarily of financial flows in the health care system. Then, the introduction of a health insurance information system, whose use should contribute to monitoring financial costs, the use of health services, and control and quality of work. Forming professional bodies for licensing healthcare professionals and bodies for accreditation of health institutions, as well as preconditions for controlling and providing quality of work in the health care system. The combination of private and public funding and the provision of healthcare implies making concrete decisions, which services will be included in a private funded package, which private services can be provided in public institutions, from health workers employed in the state health sector, and to what extent private service providers can be engaged and what contracts can be concluded with them to provide a mandatory health insurance service package. Fair funding of health services aims to establish a fairer distribution of funds and health insurance. To this end, the audit activities of the geographical allocation will be supported, taking into account accessibility, fairness, efficiency and quality of the need for health care, the allocation criteria will be assessed, the distribution system will be developed, which will allow redistribution of funds from higher to lower levels of protection. The financing of public health services will help to establish priorities in public health expenditures related to disease prevention, health promotion and health care and the creation of new funding mechanisms, as well as the stimulation to address priority problems within public health. Since I am a doctor, who comes from a large municipality - New Belgrade, and I have worked in health care at the House of Health, I have one piece of information that is important and characteristic to me. About 4,000 periodic checks were carried out in the New Belgrade Health House in 2004. Of these 4,000, about 1,000 were called for re-examination due to early detection of symptoms of work - related disease. If we know that the municipality of Novi Belgrade has between 50,000 and 60,000 employees, that means that every 13 employees were on medical examination, which is a little bit from the aspect of good safety and health at work. So much for our prevention so far. Public health, what the radicals would say – people's health, includes a programme and community-oriented activities whether they contribute to all or only individuals. At the same time, the responsibility for carrying out public health activities is the responsibility of the government, primarily the Republic, and then lower levels, such as districts and municipalities. A modern concept of public health, called new public health, implies a mission in efforts to mobilise thousands of communities around the world, their public-health planners and political leaders over health promotion projects. Finally, it can be concluded that new health problems in Serbia can be addressed to public health problems. The challenge for public health is to combat priority health problems in order to improve the health status of the population. The health care services in Serbia need improvements in work, and public health workers have a wider range of skills and selective skills in specialist areas, as the health of the people is of general interest and the most significant resource for development. I've tried to recapture the important reform items in these laws here, which we're going to work out a little bit more with the amendments that the G17 Parliament Club plus invested. Anyway, G17 plus will support all these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22081	Thank you, Mrs. Lalic. Replica, MP Paja Momcilov, authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22082	To answer what my colleague said, "What would you say, people's health." The radicals didn't make it up. We don't want you to give us any importance we don't deserve. That's what Vladan Djordjevic said. A while ago, the minister opened the statue of Vladan Djordjevic, the founder of Serbia's sanity. I said that in the 19th century, the term "public health" in England existed. Therefore, the term was introduced by Vladan Djordjevic, and Batut. Who Batut doctors know well, and he accepted the term and Andrija Stampar, who founded the School of National Health in Zagreb. There is a National Health School in Zagreb and today. The constitutional government of Croatia has not changed that, it will not change its traditions. If he wants to adopt a new terminology, we have it as a final result. Of course, I don't argue with my colleague anything, her remark was quite well-intentioned and I don't blame her, but this is true. We only advocate something that is our established terminology, and we are against this kind of innovation, and we have made that clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22083	National MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic, then MP Velimir Simonovic, then National MP Milivoja Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22084	Finally, this package of health care laws is on the agenda. We know very well that there has been great interest in the professional public for a long time. Confirmation of this is our personal contact with colleagues working in health care who are constantly wondering when some changes will finally occur, when our health employees will start, when our material position will improve, when the conditions for our work will improve. I mean, everyone's kind of expecting that there's gonna be some kind of new law, some kind of improvement. We who are a little more involved in politics know that these hopes are unfounded. We know what general trends are about some economic movements, we know what trends are about the imperatives of reducing public consumption, and health care is, unfortunately, in this sector, so we are left to show people what this is about. Unfortunately, the Assembly has in some way made it impossible for people to find out what's most important by following this debate, because you've united the debate on five laws, three of which are systemic. I understand that there is some urgency, some haste to make some measure, some law because we are pressed by some deadlines dictated by the IMF, the World Bank, etc. However, I know that, as far as budgeting is concerned, December 1st. That deadline was imposed by the IMF. As part of this, the Health Insurance Act is about the same term as the deadline for this to be passed, so that our government can conclude some agreement, a revision with the IMF. With this five-point merger, I don't believe you've saved time, most of all one working day of this assembly, and we're not able to explain to people what this is about, or our view of these laws. So, as I said, reducing public spending is an imperative set before this government, and this imperative exists because they have entered the long-term arrangement with the IMF in due time, and now this reduction in public spending must go without shades and must also affect that public spending sector, which is already deeply threatened by the low-level funds that are being allocated to it. Let's say, if we look at the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Institute, we can also see what the trends in the immediate past were and what will be in the next two or three years. Let's say we have 1998, when 6.6% of gross social products were released for health care. There is a constant movement of small oscillations: 6.1; 5.7; 5.9; 6.9; in this year 6.6% of gross social product will be allocated for health care, and next year this percentage will be reduced to 6.5, and in 2007, according to projection, it will be even lower - 6.4, and in 2008 6.3%; with one note, 6.5 was projected for 2006, however, in reality it will be only 6.1%, because a subsequent memorandum on budget and economic and fiscal policy has been carried out here to reduce public spending. What will be the consequences of such a low separation for health care? Some of the consequences are that there will be a lack of funding for the exercise of the law of established rights. So, we health care and insurance laws define what rights exist, but the money to exercise those rights won't be enough. Then, the Republic Health Insurance Institute will not be able to meet the contracts concluded with health institutions, so that healthcare institutions will enter into even more debt than they are now and this indifference of a health institution will reflect the quality of the health services provided. The result which may be the most concerned by the employees in this sector is the reduction in the number of employees. What is particularly dreary for all health workers is this and loudly said: in 2006, health workers will have a real increase in earnings of 1%. To make evil bigger, that 1% will not essentially mean a larger real-estate amount of money paid for the profits, but is already being calculated in advance with a reduction in the number of employees. So, the number of employees will be reduced, the real profits will be 1% higher, and that means that the total mass of the profits will actually be less. There's one illogicality. In 2006, the Republic Health Insurance Institute is planned to generate an income of 112,680,000,000 dinars, with total expenditures of 105 billion and 300 billion and some thousands of dinars, which means that the surplus revenue over expenditure, i.e. surplus, will be 7,375,000 dinars. What's illogical about it? On the surface, it would be said that the situation is great as soon as the surplus is planned, so less money will be spent than will be collected. That's similar to your budget surplus. However, the 2006 surplus will be transferred to 2007 to meet the unsettled commitments of 2006. This can't possibly be understood. What does that mean? This means that the Republic Health Insurance Institute will have more money at the end of 2006, it will have unmistakable obligations, but will not settle them when it has obligations, but will transfer them to the next year. What does that mean in practice? This means that the Republic Institute is knowingly planning to remain in debt to health institutions in this year, in order to settle the debt next year. Is there any logic there besides the intention to make it difficult to provide health services to users? Some colleagues have already spoken about what restrictive measures are predicted. So, the mass of the profits will actually be reduced, the income from the sick will be reduced by the entire 26%, the cost of travel will be reduced even more - over 30%, and the fees for funeral services will be abolished completely. This means that it will have to significantly increase the personal participation of patients in the cost of treatment. However, it will leave the minister to introduce it through sublegal acts. Regardless of what we do not know now, it is certain that this will be slow and certainly an increasing burden on the users of the services. What raised the most barrels in the professional public is the relationship between private medical practice and state institutions, i.e. whether private practice will, in some ways, be integrated into the health care system, or whether it will be able to provide services to users, that these services, at least in part, will be paid by the Republic Health Insurance Office. The minister, with a very convincing argument, explained to us on the Committee that it could not be introduced overnight. If hypothetically, overnight, the owners of private medical offices could receive funds from the Republic Institute for their services, the fund would certainly be exhausted very quickly and the collapse of state institutions would occur. I don't think any of us are so insecure that we're seriously proposing to the Minister such a measure, but the fact is that nothing is done on some long-term concept that will gradually, with one reasonable, transitional period, slowly integrate private service into the health insurance system. For example, why is it not considered that the percentage of the full price of the health care service provided by the private office is not less than is obtained by the state institution? For starters, let's test this model, let's say, this year from the full cost of health care, if that service is given to a private office, from the Republic Office, say, refunds 10%, and 90% of the patient, so that next year be 15-20%, gradually, etc. What would that accomplish? Since you cannot and must not introduce completely free competition overnight, the market between private and state institutions, let us state institutions slowly prepare for this competition. Now state institutions are not capable of the match, among other things, has more than 30% non-medical staff, has irrational network organisations of institutions, inefficient work, etc. However, if management at the state institution knows that in five years it will be in the same position, or in 10 years, with private institutions, then it will have to, of course, be slow to prepare for it. The Minister's explanation - we must not allow it, because there would be a collapse, etc., it stands for this moment and if we would imagine that it would be introduced immediately to the fullest extent. But there's no concept of taking that first step. We know that every time, however long it is, it starts with the first step. I have to cut this discussion short, leave it to other colleagues to say what they've been preparing for.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22085	Thank you, Mr. Nedeljkovic. The word is by MP Velimir Simonovic, then MP of the people Milivoje Vukovic, then MP Rajko Baralic. Here you go, Mr. Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22086	Ladies and gentlemen, since each of the parliamentary groups has been among us and the doctors, I'm here in a delicate situation, I'm afraid it doesn't seem a little immodest on my part to get involved in a debate about these laws, because it's an area that I haven't particularly dealt with in my life. I will speak more as a citizen of some observations, and also as an MP, since I have various meetings with the citizens, who can touch some of these topics that are on the agenda today. I'm not going to talk about my experiences today, it wouldn't be polite, but I'm going to talk about the experiences of my friends and acquaintances who needed to be treated in high health institutions. The first conclusion that arises, when it comes to clinical hospitals, clinics, university clinics, VMAs, etc., is that healthcare is a very expensive thing. Only rich countries can have top health care. I'm told by a friend who's been living in England for a long time that even there some state hospitals aren't on some particularly high level. When you look at what is spent during the day on drugs, medical material, sanity material, what is all for single use, so it is immediately thrown, etc., then it will be concluded that it costs a lot. That's one thing. The other thing is that today, in medicine, very many expensive technical devices are being used. However, I liked something in Article 3. I don't want to read the whole article, but only part of it says, "Citizens have the right to protection, but also the duty to protect and improve their health." This is very important - that it is the duty of citizens to improve and protect their health. I don't know if it applies to other peoples, but we Serbs as a people are very irresponsible to our health. It happens that a man has a stroke or a heart attack, then there's a story -- where, how, what happened to him, he's never been sick, etc. That's not true. The doctors know very well that it was systematically accumulated in him, so he had a heart attack or stroke or, God forbid, he died. If he survived, then he wonders how it got him. If he had regular health control, at least twice a year, it wouldn't have happened to him. I'll tell you a story; when he was the head of Belgrade University, Professor Bozidar Djordjevic, of the Medical Faculty, he introduced that university professors can come to his clinic whenever they want to control their health and that they won't wait at all, that's how they'll organise it, and that's how it was organised. But if you're looking at the statistics on how many of us went to that clinic of his for control, a very small number. If it were up to me, you wouldn't be studying religious and civic education in primary and secondary schools, but you'd be learning health education. I'd bring in an hour a week for kids, and maybe more, where doctors would tell kids how to live healthy, how to maintain hygiene, how to play sports, etc. So let's start from childhood to teach them how to live healthy, how to maintain their health, how to grow up to be healthy people, and get a healthy nation. It is very important that such education be done from the youngest days. There's a lot of talk with us about doctor corruption. Let me tell you right now, I don't belong to those who think that doctor corruption is typical of our medicine. No, there are cases, here are almost some doctors arrested, because they gave false assurances about these unfortunate pensions, etc.; sometimes they were looking for money for operations; but I don't believe it's a mass phenomenon and I don't believe it's typical of our medical workers. On the contrary, I am deeply convinced that our doctors are doing their job with great security and that they often work in very difficult conditions. I hope that this law, as well as the chamber when it is established, as well as the ethical committees that now exist at our health institutions, will contribute to removing a little corruption from our medicine entirely. Of course, much depends on how medical professionals, doctors and other staff are paid. I can tell you, doctors may be able to, in addition to these regular salaries, earn a little more from overtime, duty, etc., while the medical staff is at great risk, and what we call popular nurses; especially at clinics, such as surgical ones, where they do very difficult jobs, unpleasant ones, I wouldn't say uncomfortable, because it's not a convenient term for medicine, but certainly very delicate ones, and they're so little paid. Therefore, it should also be ranked, so to speak: if a nurse works where patients are easier to pay in one way, and those who work where surgical operations are, where special rooms are where patients lie after surgery, to be paid much better than they have so far. There's a member of 199 mentioned here, and I see that it refers to whether a doctor can work in his or her private office this afternoon. I don't know what the situation is right now, there's no minister here, but I do know that in some countries, I'm primarily thinking about France, a doctor who works at a state hospital can't work in private. It has to be defined where it's going to work, whether it's going to work in a state or in a private hospital. I don't know if that's changed, but I believe there are such countries where it's not allowed. I also suggested it for university professors when it was the Law on Higher Education, but it didn't pass that amendment, that a university teacher who works at State University couldn't work at a private university. What's going on? I was told by a specialist doctor doing ultrasound tests. He goes once or twice a week into a private office, conducts an ultrasound examination, gets 800 dinars for it, for each review, and one charges probably 3,000 patients, owner of that private office. He doesn't pay any contributions to those 800 dinars. These private clinics and offices use highly qualified strength, scientific and professional, for very small money. Look at the weekly addition to "Politicals" Magazine, so you see how private offices and clinics are advertised there, and there consultants are all professors of the university, who usually have their jobs at the Medical Faculty. So, that's not good, these teachers need to do science and treating people at clinics, and they don't need to get paid a little bit at state and abuse at private clinics. I think it should be arranged somehow, but I can see here that a doctor who's in a state hospital can also work with a private, close a contract, etc. I guess a little more order will be introduced when the contracts are made so that at least those doctors from the state hospitals aren't exploited by the owners of private offices. It is predicted in one place that the director of health care institutions is elected, so he says he can be a doctor, so many years of practice, etc., but that he can be the director of a health home and a person who is not a doctor, but is trained for so-called. medical management. I don't like the word management, it's management. I think it's good, even if he's headed by some medical facility doctor, he'd have to have an assistant or a deputy who's not a doctor, but who's a good organizer. At least once a year, he went to some home of health to finish something, and we saw a lot of people waiting. It can be arranged, but we should have good organizers, who know how to implement such a system of patient reception, not to wait. I was told by a friend who lived in Vienna for several years. When he goes to the doctor, sign up on the counter and he's told - come, sir, at 10 o'clock. At 10.00 he's called out of the office, no waiting. One winter my friend fell and got hurt, so I kept him company at the orthopedic clinic. When I saw what it was like there, I was afraid of how many people were there. If he didn't know the nurse who called him as soon as the specialist doctor came, he wouldn't have come all day. So we need to find people who know how to organize a health care service and make such a system so that when people go to a health care home or to a hospital, they don't have to experience any inconvenience with that waiting, pushing, arguing who came before. When you get to the health home, you have to ask who's last to take order. It's a big deal, but I hope he's totally doable. I wouldn't talk about this any further, even though I'd have objections to something I've heard from some colleagues, but I won't because I'd cause replicas, which I don't like.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22087	The People's Messenger Milivoje Vukovic has the word, so let the People's Messenger Rajko Baralić be prepared, and then the People's Messenger Paja Momcilov, and the People's Messenger Snezana Pantic-Aksentijevic. That'll be a exhausted list of speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22088	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, indeed, the behaviour of this government is disputable. Here, five very significant laws she puts into a united debate and I think she does it on purpose to make it as little time as possible for us Serbian radicals to explain to our citizens and our people what awaits them all by passing these laws. For citizens, this is an announcement of an even greater direct payment for services in the home of health, new burden on family budgets and further undermining the principles of solidarity and availability of treatment. Of these five laws, three are systemic and all three system laws discriminate against healthcare professionals. In fact, these laws provide even greater opportunities for the minister to further sanction healthcare professionals. For example, a doctor for his failures is sentenced to regular court for three years, and then he is further banned from working in the profession for four years or given a fine. The chamber law does not speak of the rights of the doctor but gives the minister the possibility of further harassing healthcare professionals. If you're already talking about this Europe, why don't you take something good from this Europe, but everything that's bad and per dictatorship? In Article 4(2), for example, it is said that membership in the chamber is mandatory. Why don't they take it from Europe? For example, in Slovakia, membership in the chamber is mandatory for private healthcare professionals - entrepreneurs, and voluntary for employed healthcare workers in the state sector. Health reforms in the country have been declared by the EU as the best of all transition countries. It is also not indicated who transfers the powers to the chambers, because there is a clear obligation to indicate the scope of the powers and bodies entrusted to the chamber. As far as the bill on health care is concerned, he's also bad. As a member of the World Health Organization, we were obliged to bring in a document on the objectives and measures of health policy in line with the World Health Organization document, but it was still missing. If this is the case, what health policy has been used to draft legislation that, according to the proposal, introduces fundamental change in the health care system? Without such examples and without clearly defined objectives and views defined by the highest legislative authority, numerous inaccuracies, ambiguities and other weaknesses of the proposed laws could not be avoided. The bill promoter has detailed the matter of patients' rights in the use of health care, and citizens' rights, and then there is no word from the doctor. The primary health care is neglected and it should be recalled that primary health care represents a bearing pillar in the health system and that all projects and programmes made in collaboration with international institutions favour this section of service, as economic science can easily prove that social costs of prevention are lower than direct and indirect treatment costs. The explanation states that one of the greatest weaknesses of the existing system is the fact that existing health homes are actually polyclinics, and that's true. And what is suggested to overcome that? Apparently, the legislator did not want the introduction of family medicine as recommended by the World Health Organization. Had the proposaler taken into account the 2002 "European definition of family medicine" document, he would have proposed solutions that function effectively in Europe and would not have made a mess. This was an ideal opportunity to restructure the homes of health, which could have teams of family medicine in the first line, with the support of gynecologists, pediatricians, dentists and other services. As for the director of the health care home, they are irreplaceable while the G17 holds the health ministry's portfolio. Since these laws are not good speeches and the fact that a member of the Committee on Health from the ruling coalition, a respected colleague, said: this law, he meant the bill on health care, is not good for the private sector because it is quite repressive, and the existing law is better and more liberal than that proposed. With this finding, we also agree with the Serbian Radical Party and say it is true that the Health Protection Act is discriminatory according to private practice and therefore the SRS will not vote for this set of laws. For all things said, the SRS will not vote for this set of laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22089	Thank you. As we have said, the word has the People's MP Rajko Baralić, and then the People's Messenger Paja Momcilov, then the People's Messenger Snezana Pantic-Aksentijevic. Here you go, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22090	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Grmusa-Pavlović, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, very important laws are on the agenda and the way they are adopted and applied depends on the level of national health and the level of organisation of health institutions and the level of burden on those who pay for health money to have health care at the desired level. The concern of human health is not merely the desire of the formal political character of political parties and individuals to use it as an opportunity for citizens to express their views on this very important area when adopting such laws. It is, above all, the responsibility of the legislators and of the Members of the People, with a degree of understanding of this issue, which is one of the most complex and which has the deepest possible fundamental human character, by its size and by its importance the people's character, and by its way of funding and organization has the most important state character. It is not easy to measure the level of need, the level of tax arrest and contributions to this area, and it is not easy to reconcile everything that is important for a person to be absolutely sure that his child, himself or his old parent, will have the elementary health care to ensure that he is treated with dignity when he is sick, which will provide him with prevention when he is not sick and will ensure that when he is ill, if he cannot be cured, unfortunately, he dies with dignity. There is a great challenge for the government of any state, for the competent ministry and for us MPs who are here facing arguments that, therefore, the Government and the Ministry, should penetrate the very essence and take from each of our proposals the best possible and then bring it and make an effort to adopt the law that provides what I'm talking about. We had a strong social state, a state that guaranteed several important things such as education, children's and social protection and health care. In 1972, for the first time in Serbia's history, labour and farm insurance funds were united. Then, for the first time, the peasants in this country were entitled to a free sick day, which significantly made it difficult for the functioning of labour insurance and complete health funds, but one category of people who were very honorable and for a very long time on their shoulders carried the various burdens of this society in a way that was adequate. That's why we talk with great responsibility about all this stuff. I had the honour of being a worker of Dr Dragisa Misovic Medical Centre in Cačka for almost ten years. I'm familiar with the health care organization. I had the honour of having this facility named Dr Dragisa Misovic, one of the greatest humanists this country has ever had. Today, I want to talk only about one question, Mr. Zivodarka Dacin, the mandated representative of the SPS for these laws, has presented views and views of the SPS regarding the proposed laws. That was also said by fellow MP Toma Busetic. I just want to talk here about 20s and severals of thousands of families in Serbia who have very big problems, delicate problems. It is about families with the most severe patients, it is about severe diseases, injuries or conditions, people whose cost of treatment or care exceeds one average profit per day in Serbia. If sickness, condition, or damage to such a character, one family may, unless there is adequate social care and social protection, in full economic and any other sense, lead practically to bankruptcy. It is a special pain for families who have a responsibility to their sick members and a desire to do whatever is possible to be cured. If they can't be cured, then their condition can be tolerated. It's not just a medical problem, it's an ethical problem, and it's a problem that deserves our attention and deserves to be hired by each of us here. I would like to say that health insurance funds are unable to provide fully in financial and any other sense 100% of the compensation for these costs I'm talking about, which are very high. These costs sometimes exceed the actual cost of treatment. They often overcome whatever a family has in a material sense. It's very difficult for us to measure all of this and give the right solutions. It is also difficult to read in the paper that a Presevo girl cannot provide a wheelchair costing 300,000 dinars or like this boy who has this heart transplant problem and cannot provide the funds of 300,000 euros. So, I'd always advocate, if that's possible, and to be properly understood, that those who have the cost of treatment in one year 500 dinars and thousands of dinars, to pay for it, and those who have such costs, who are terrible and unsustainable, have adequate protection from the state. We need the state when it's hard for us, and when it's good we owe it to the state to give everything we can, what we know and what we know. So I speak for many families, on behalf of many patients in Serbia, and not only in Serbia, who have these problems and who deserve to do everything we can to make this situation easier for them. I don't want to make any examples and hurt anyone's suffering, which is great. That can be discreet. We all understand what I'm talking about here. I know there's an experience in the world that goes in favor of what I'm talking about. I'm simply asking you, Mr. Minister, and all of us to help, and now is the moment, and that we keep that in mind. There are families that have daily expenses of 20,000 to 30,000 dinars for disease, condition, or injuries that last for several years, and that is a great, great wealth that people, of course, cannot, and cannot do much less. So it would be important to have an answer to this question, if possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22091	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. The People's Messenger Paja Momcilov has the word, and then the People's Messenger Snezana Pantic-Aksentijevic. I draw your attention to business member Article 95(3). Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22092	Dear People's MPs, the time that has been allocated to the Serbian Radical Party in this dreary debate on important legislative proposals, on a set of health laws. I have in some way called all the people who run this session, so may I be allowed to ask the honorable Mr Markovic - is your conscience peaceful when you are having such a debate in this House? I believe that you will not have any moral problems and dilemmas, but I am asking you for our public, because it is obvious that the government of Serbia and the prime minister is not ashamed that they are going their own way, drawn up, taking one path that, in my opinion, there is no return. The next election will end this infamous path. As far as health care is concerned, I think I'm competent to say something more. It falls into the eyes of a very interesting fact that none of the fellow doctors from the largest party position speak of this law. What's motive, they know. I would now in some way reduce this exposure of Serbian radicals to get something that is a skeleton, to pass on a message to our citizens. This time we no longer speak to the Minister, nor to the Government, nor to the Honorable Speaker of Parliament, we are conducting a dialogue with our people. The Serbian Radical Party will not vote for this set of laws. The first reason, the will of most professional associations and trade unions is not respected. Secondly, manipulations are not allowed to correct the procedure of discussion in the Assembly, by uniting discussions on five very broad laws, two of which number almost 300 members, in one debate of five hours, and by that story of the work of our Committee which failed to do, unfortunately, and perhaps shame, a job that had to be done. Systemic laws are not reformish, according to Serbian radicals, and we make that clear. Reform is not continuity, reform is something that is discontinuity and cannot be continuity. What's being said is that the papers are in law, let's start with the health care law, so the first paper is the chosen doctor. So, a short memory. In 1962, the chosen doctor existed in the law of Serbia; not that there was a doctor, but also a chosen institution. You could've picked an institution where you wanted to go, you could've taken care of yourself from King's Landing, from Chuck's in Belgrade, and you had that freedom in 1962, and that worked well. When you speak now - the chosen doctor, you cannot deprive that property of a doctor of private practice. Why? Not because we are a society in transition, but because the Constitution of Serbia says in one of its members that these two categories are equal. So, state property and private property. If the Constitution says they are equal, you cannot introduce inequality and discrimination. If you think you can, you can, but by social agreement. If you put that on a referendum, so what you want, a monopoly of the social sector, you are obliged to call a referendum and hear what the citizens say. It doesn't occur to you, you will not endure any normal, correct congregation debate, let alone ask the citizens. You don't care what the opposition's majority party and other parties think about it, you're looking for every way to prevent it. So, funny and all kinds of tricks. We've got good paperwork on this, we're not going to talk about it because it's not a topic. What I'm going to try to explain to you... It's always said -- a radical story is a critical story. No, we criticise the reason we believe what we're saying and the reason we think our arguments are strong. Our ultimate goal is to through this debate... We know we can't convince you, and why can't we? Because the economy that exists today is unprincipled. Here, if you were a principled coalition, we could convince you with our arguments and the power of arguments, but when you have an unprincipled coalition, there's no way you'll understand it. I told you, it can't be the goal of maintaining the highest level, because if you keep it, it stands there by the logic of things, and that's the phrase. We said what the objective of health policy is, which we don't have. The state of Serbia does not have a health document that parliament had to bring. All the developed countries of the world have politics and there are goals. And then we don't even have the right strategy. We don't have all that, and we're dealing with some major reforms. It's not working, it's just not possible. It is possible only today, when we have an unprincipled coalition and when everyone who is of position and government, it serves her honor, I say that she should be ashamed, agreeing to something like this, to humiliate and insult the Serbian people like this. What we've been trying to tell you is that the only goals, two goals: the first goal of preserving biological integrity, which is partially and due to the white plague, are at risk, and much more unnecessary by high mortality, in which it is preventable... Not an angio-salam, you're putting out that fire, but you're preventing a fire from real primary protection. In the break they call me colleagues in general medicine and say – why don't you say something about family medicine, why don't you talk about WONCA project from the World Health Organization, why don't you talk about the Europe family medicine project in 2002? We'll talk when we talk about details. The idea you left you didn't understand. For family medicine in Yugoslavia, 70% of citizens reported in Serbia. The survey was conducted by UNICEF and the World Health Organization a few years ago. You don't respect the will of the citizens. You impose on the citizens what you want. Why? I don't understand. Because you have experts like you, I'm not gonna say white-world hohstapplers, who come here for big money and now they're gonna help us. That's your Keber, too. What's the second assignment, family medicine, I started saying, you can protect the best, at the people's request, health at the primary level. You didn't create a proper reteral system, to be the center of that family doctor, with a gynecologist and a pediatrician as consultants, and a dentist. England has a family doctor, private, all private in England. They privatized the private sector, it's state health, but they arranged it like this. They have a problem with not having a home of health. Now they join together, private doctors, and team up with the lab, with x-rays, and we already have a home of health, we already have a nuclearus around which we can do something that would work perfectly on the primary level of health care. So you haven't studied what the World Health Organization suggests, that you cultivate family medicine together with gynecologists and pediatricians, which is our specificity, our patients are used to having that protection. You had to provide the protection first and then build on it. Now just a few words to allow me to tell you about this budget law. It's a law that was quickly passed, which is declarative and clear. You've defined yourself to include health insurance to the entire population. It's not a dispute. You've even gone so far as to be those categories, just in case they're not members of the 28th Central Article 45, where your health care package... There's an irrationality in that package of yours that the World Bank pointed to, and you didn't realize it. They made it clear to you when they told you what they said, not to repeat now, that haemophilia and rheumatotic fever can't be of social importance, that all infectious diseases can't be of social importance. You have the flu, the flu epidemic, and now it's of social importance, and you're 100% cost-covering. No one in the world does it, it's unnecessary. Also, what we have to say is, if you've decided on a package like this that's too wide, and there's HIV, a drug addict, there's all hundred percent. They told you to cut it down, people, it's not working, you can't do it financially. If you wanted that approach that you started, then you can, but what you had to have before that, and that's what the World Bank told you, what the real health needs of our people are. In order to know what health needs are, first you have to say how sick he is, what he dies most of all, what to invest in, where to throw himself. Whether we're going to HIV and drug abuse or we're going to have cardiovascular disease, which is the main cause of mortality, or we're going to protect reproductive health. I don't mind, they can talk as much as they want, we're used to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22093	It bothers me, and that's why I'm warning you, because we're doing business. (Branka Bosnjak, from the site: We preserve mental health. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22094	You're too late, it should've been sooner. My colleague says she's saving her mental health, and I tell her she's late, she remembered late. Unfortunately, I'm sorry. Let's move on. Better watch over some other stuff. If that's what you wanted, Mr. Secretary... We're discussing expertise with Mr. Minister today, with one concept, I'm talking about it; I apologized to the citizens if I don't always understand, you'll understand. How much money do you need to realize that? You must know exactly. Then there must be a document on the scope, content, standard of health care, because it is the only way to assess the necessary resources. By introducing you into the law, changing standards and all that I've just listed, it means you haven't done that financial structure, so you're going to change it from year to year, because you don't have it now. It's a sign that you're in a hurry with this law. There's not a word about these things that I've been talking about. You haven't measured the priorities where we have to go, by what means, how much we need. What you didn't do for this concept of yours, you had to do it, and that's what these World Bank guys tell you, I don't know why you didn't do it. Then you say, "Okay, radicals, what do you want?" We say this – why didn't you do a basic package of health services recommended by the World Health Organization and, of course, the World Bank, and you sent people to courses to educate for that? A couple of people were in class, who were supposed to learn that. Did they have to, did they learn, why they didn't, that's another question. If you want to do it this way, then what first must contain a package – to isolate the most sensitive categories. Who are they? The poor, the diseases of social importance, and then to determine the measures to stop the disease from occurring in these vulnerable categories. I don't want to pick up the kids, I don't want to pick up pregnant women, you know that. So you had to put the categories in the package first. And then what the Socialists say, lives. If I have the flu me and Mr. Karic, we are 100 percent freed, but if I have 100 percent with the poor category, no Karic, no people with high incomes. It's the World Health Organization, it's Europe, it's what you call mental ability. We stand for it and ask you why you didn't apply it. When you determine those vulnerable categories, it's in the world of a model that exists everywhere, then you say what measures we're going to take to be main, impactive. Whether it's going to be an angio-sale or it's going to be prevention, ECG, a pressure machine, a scale, so it's going to prevent these complications from happening, or it's going to be scanners, magnetic resonances, etc. What this package must contain, and yours does not contain, is absurd, you must 100% cover diseases and injuries that directly endanger patients. When a patient has a heart attack on the street, you have to cover it 100% if you want to be human, and if you want to be okay, if he's poor. You need an open fracture, a stroke to be classified in that category, and then that package lives. Someone will say, "Where he lives, we can't read everything." Here, the package in Republika Srpska is done properly and it works. Someone can say we don't need it, we don't need a rich company. I agree, whoever's rich, he can do what he wants, he can do what he wants. The Serbian Radical Party advocates that this package of the World Health Organization and the Bank is applied to our situation, because our situation is not good and is the most effective measure of fighting to preserve the health of the poor. A few more things to say, to be clear. This insurance law is about the budget, it has nothing to do with each other. It can bond, but there are no functional connections. It's not up to the budget to pass this bill at all. When a system law is passed, it must last. Whoever brings it must have the ambition to last him at least three days. As it is imagined and unsustainable financially, it is easy to prove, it will not last. As it's imagined, it's accepted by the World Bank, they're told "a great space you have to fuck public spending, if the nonmedical part of the rights you've given to the citizens is taken away." So, take away their right to funeral expenses, take away their travel expenses, cut off their sick. Is that for our society a solution? Is this about a society that is poor, objective, where there's been a major decomposition, where everywhere it's said that social care and politics are one necessary component of a transition society, allowed to fuck in these categories? Not according to Serbian radicals. What you've done, instead of reducing the cost of the state, of irrationality, and there are so many, wherever you turn, you can point your finger at something that's not right in health care everywhere. Watch the finance ministry building, three million euros or dollars for reconstruction, to move in one group and live in luxury and luxury. If you took that money, there wouldn't be a waiting list for the hips. That's the amount of money that would take off your hip waiting list and everyone would have free hips. Does it have to flash like that, and did they have to be driven from there by statisticians into a far worse space of the Republic Bureau of Statistics, which is up on the boulevard? If you watch what happens in health care last year, 240,000 doses of flu vaccines were dumped. Why? Because the centrifuges are 50 years old. Then 240,000 doses of these vaccines were bought. You know how much money that is? Another example: "Gallenika" - who can justify this to the Serbian people and to the doctors that someone in the name of the people gives three million dollars to a company to buy the right to "palitrex" and "pentrexil"? Unnecessarily. It's a generic. You buy from "Bristol Myers," through a buyer named "How," right to call himself "pentrexil," and the same raw materials from three to five times cheaper you can buy in India, China and call the cure, as our people say, "penthraxil," or somehow different and you're calm. Say it out loud, don't mind, I think it's a well-intentioned intrusion. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] (President: Be kind, do not discuss with MPs.) Be kind and continue your exposure. I discuss, and MPs earn. He does not warn that it is forbidden to throw a speaker through the Rules of Procedure, but I am forbidden to speak to the messengers. Okay, I agree. I apologize, Mr. President, I was wrong. To take what Karol Junger said, I did not read a more convincing article, that someone in someone's country published what she published in the NIN on September 1st. With so much cynicism and sarcasm she talked about our health problems, it's a miracle. She says corruption in our health accounts for 2% to 4% of gross national income. If the state were responsible, I don't say you, but if the institutions were functioning, if the state had done its job, and if half of it had introduced normal flows, we wouldn't have had to do 1.3% of gross national income to make up for our health cuts. It's not the solution to close your hand to the pensioner first, so when the Socialists do a little bit of stopping, give it to the sick. It's one responsible socialized state that won't allow itself, and for God's sake, this government of ours will. Why, I don't know that. What I'm saying is that there could have been other items and how to make up for all this, which is considered a broken-down cost that the international community doesn't recognise us, especially by rationalising in health care. Someone here was saying from a colleague that there was a huge drug use. If you look at what's in the Fund from last year to this year, what's the cost of drugs, it's not rational costs. It is not a rational system in the Belgrade hospitals of seven directors. Then what happens is chaos. Then petitions, then those institutions are ahead of you. Seven executives, they're higher incomes, higher salaries. It's not crucial and crucial, but it doesn't work. They're irrational. By not restructured at this point in the right way and building a retern system, where primary protection is not primary, but primary, and maids of secondary and tertiary level, you will not even improve the health situation of our people, and you will certainly not fix the financial situation of this country. That's the point. The Serbian radicals have told you, and you can qualify as you will. This is not the mind of Serbian radicals, this is the mind, I can say freely, the sacred profession, the intellectual elite of health, which writes to us, that we communicate with and we have no problems. We don't always agree with all their attitudes, but this is what our mouth says is real, not false waist. We don't want to worry about cowardly feathers, tell our story; tell the story of experts from the World Health Organization, top experts who raised this medicine to a high level in the earlier period, and how difficult it will be for us to reach and future generations.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22095	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Pantic-Aksentijevic. That's the last one on the speaker list. The request made by the MP must be respected. He asked for a dialogue with the people and we listened to that second part. The people answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22096	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Madam Secretary of State, Mrs. Pavlovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today a set of very important health laws is on the agenda. G17 Plus supports health laws that will contribute to the creation of a financial and institutionally sustainable health system in the longer term, a system that improves the health of the population. In the voting day, the G17 plus parliamentary group will vote for these laws. We've had a past of difficult times in health care that lasted longer than a decade. Financial difficulties and pessimism of employees were present. Decade debts piled up. The result of all this was great dissatisfaction with both employees and users. The poor motivation of the employees was noticeable. Employees' salaries were low, infrastructure investments were minimal, almost gone. The availability of health services was compromised. The inadequate financing of health institutions was present, and significant for this period is the absence of mechanisms for the control of costs and quality of health services. A good health system is viewed through cost reduction, through increased health care efficiency, patient satisfaction with the work of the healthcare service, as well as in increasing choice opportunities for users and healthcare providers. Health reform is under way. So far, we've adopted one systematic and two accompanying laws. The system laws we are discussing today, the health care law, the health insurance law, the health care workers' chambers law, will help speed up reforms. The Health Protection Act provides for decentralisation of the organisation of health services and the sharing of responsibilities in the achievement of healthcare between the Republic, the province, the municipalities, the city, employers, or individuals. The organisation of health care will be clearly separated at the primary, secondary and tertiary level. The work of health institutions and private practices and their relationship with health insurance organisations will be arranged. In doing so, I mean mandatory and supplementary insurance. The implementation of the protection will be supported by the establishment and operation of the accreditation agency. Health insurance reform will provide available and quality health care at all levels. The health care workers' chamber law will allow, after six decades, the formation of chambers. The law needs Serbia and is very important. The chamber is the main mechanism for strengthening quality and achieving responsibilities in the profession. The most important authority of the chamber is the granting, renewal and withdrawal of the authorisation for independent work, etc. license. So, licensing, relicence and withdrawal. The formation of the chamber will restore dignity to the profession, the doctor and the patient, and doctors will have an obligation to continue education. The law is sustainable and feasible and requires minimum funding from the budget for the start of work. Serbia's Red Cross Law has already been discussed. I will only say that it is absolutely necessary to bring it forward and that it is necessary also by domestic legislation to establish the position, rights and obligations of the Red Cross of Serbia as an auxiliary body of government in the humanitarian area. The application of the substance law used in the illicit production of intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances prevents abuse in the production and use of over-tour traffic. The objective of the law is to fulfil the obligations of the State under the ratified conventions. In this way, the area of production, transport of precursors and individual imports, exports and transit of precursors is aligned with EU directives for this area. The adoption of these laws is another step further in reforms, another step towards European integration. We're here to work for the benefit of the citizens and the state. Citizens know and remember well, but they also condemn a bad act. Let us do together, in the day of the vote, something that will benefit citizens in terms of safety when they are sick, but also build the possibility that other citizens can maintain their health through continued prevention. I urge you to support and vote for these laws in the voting day, with the G17 plus parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22097	Thank you. Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, before the conclusion of the joint principled search, do the presidents, or representatives, want to hear the word? Here's a word from MP Ilic, authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22098	Dear Mr. President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have on the agenda a principle debate on five very important laws, key laws for Serbia's health system, of which three system and two laws governing a special area, but also very important. What our health system is facing, and it's not a very different situation in other countries, is the relationship of two aspects, two key factors. On the one hand, there is a need for quality health services, with the need growing in conditions in which Serbia, the relatively old population, is relatively increased morbidity. So, on the one hand, the need for a health system is growing, and on the other hand the limits, primarily financially, are obvious. And, of course, as part of what has been current in Serbia in recent months, it means, adapting to some European and world standards, we simply need to take care of public spending as well. Our policy in the health system is, metaphorically speaking, a clast that moves between these two parts: the need for quality and numerous health services, on the one hand, and on the other hand limited financial resources. Of course, when we talk about new laws, we are talking about reforming the health system. You will not meet almost any stakeholders of the expert debate on health laws that will not be said – we need reform. This means different things under reform. A sincere commitment to reform changes in the health system implies that the health system is made effective and that, more importantly, the effect of this health system will be a better health condition for the population. It's a key parameter and a key goal. The health care system is the most vulnervable, as doctors would say, or the most sensitive system. It is not fully subject to the rules applicable to reforming other systems, which, of course, means the market concept. The Democratic Party of Serbia, as a party that implies in its concept, is a party of the right centre, relying on the market as a basic model of transforming the system, believes that reform should be started in the health system as well. We're making sure it's really a specific system. I would remind you, if anyone knew about this subject some facts, to those who did not know, I would pass on some experiences that had some other countries that were in a similar situation. Therefore, market measures include competition between service providers, relatively low insurance coverage, small state impact on medical practice or drug trafficking, where health systems are not independent, they are made up of a series of interrelated markets, such as insurance, capital, individual or institutional healthcare providers, research, teaching institutions, drug production and medical equipment. The case of the United States is very picturesque. In the mid-1990s 40% of gross social products were spent on health care, and today is not much different. In doing so, we heard the data today about a large number, meaning 50 million, unsecured faces. No matter how much is spent, there is no universal access to the health system and there is no complete cost control. Experiences of Singapore, e.g. as modern countries of the Far East, Germany, Canada, Japan, when market principles are fully introduced into the system, demand for health services begins to grow. Total budgets are growing, with growth and cost. This time, the country that we are on has already come a long way, and this example is really very indicative, is the Czech Republic. In 1992, she began reforming her health system with market elements, of course coming out behind the iron curtain with enthusiasm accepted the principles of the company's market organisation and applied it to health care. The first effects were the cost explosion. For what? The government's reduced right to intervene in the health sector, decentralisation of hospital ownership, privatisation of family doctors, rewarding by service, liberalisation of pharmaceutical prices, means all elements of the market. Health costs in total gross national income in the Czech Republic increased from 5% in 1989 to 8% in 1994. In 1992, the health budget was spent in the Czech Republic for the first four months and had to be complemented afterwards, and in 1993 the budget was spent in six months. I'm talking absolutely from one objective aspect, there's a lot of talk about privatisation, and I repeat that the DSS advocates this concept in all of the elements of the system. I remind you that we have 60 years of state health, which has its positive effects. We have to save the best from that system and repair it, of course by privatizing, but there are no ideal solutions. We're the last party to talk to the state system the way it's supposed to be preserved. It should be repaired and slowly privatised, all types of ownership should be equalised, competition, market, but under one control of the state that takes care of citizens, as the direct effects of these changes are the health status of the population. Doctors' income in private practice grew rapidly, while the salaries of doctors in the Czech State service were alarmingly low, so in May 1995 they were barely $400 in public service, and in private practice they were much higher. We believe that the health system should be modernised, changed, reformed. We respect the elements and all the suggestions that we have heard from doctors in the private sector and will slowly integrate into the system. What I want to say about these laws, we've heard about the details a lot, and I want to give a second aspect here, that with these laws in the transformation of the system, someone's going to say too carefully, they're different aspects, the system is very sensitive, they seem the first steps to fix it, and I don't think there's any dilemma. That's why the DSS will vote for these laws. In significant elements, we have tried to amend the laws of our amendments, and hopefully we will do so with co-operation with the government and the Ministry, because this is simply a system in which politicians should not compete in making points, as mentioned today. The system is so sensitive, it concerns all of us, and we need to change it together. There's really no dilemma. What are the elements of state responsibility in some countries, I will briefly specify examples. You have the decentralisation of jobs and the transfer of administrative power from the state to independent local authorities in Finland, so the balance of health services provided and financed by the state with a number of public and other institutions in Spain, transfer of responsibility from state to private or semi-private institutions, mutual insurance in France. The state as an arbiter or a Moderator in the direction of negotiating between independent institutions that share legal responsibility in Germany. What can we expect from privatisation? It's just one of the segments, but I think it's most mentioned in public when it comes to laws. I expect that private capital can invest in the production and distribution of drugs, instruments, etc. I don't expect to invest too much in health institutions. Let it happen, too, but let it start like this. Of course, paying for the doctor's work results, I expect, such information from the ministry, that the next quarter will start paying for services. We heard earlier, I hope I've convinced you, that and it's not an ideal system, meaning the combination of payment of the capitulation, the total budgets of health care institutions and only for the most exclusive health services per service I expect to repair this system. Legal independence of health institutions – I expect healthcare institutions to slowly become less dependent on the central government, with it of course having its own control. The freedom of choice of doctors, mentioned in some legal provisions, and, of course, the negotiation of medical services in these health institutions, can increase their micro-effectiveness. (President: Are you using another 10 minutes? Yes. The elements of what we talked about in the laws, the health insurance law – the chosen doctor, a doctor who, as we can see, is not only about the state institution. So he'll be able to be a doctor from the private sector. I expect there to be first shifts after the law is passed, and of course I expect the Ministry and the Government to take care of what the first effects of these changes will be. So, the selected doctor, who signs a contract with the fund, has his own list of patients who chose him, so patients pick him, patients want to have a good doctor, and next year they sign a contract with someone else, if the doctor wasn't good. The doctor takes care of the patients, takes care of his education, takes care of how he treats, takes care of the patient's health dinar. Of course, the elements of voluntary health insurance, supplemental, compensatory, etc. I expect a single insurance market to be created gradually. I expect private insurance companies to be involved in this. I expect this supplemental participation, i.e. additional health insurance, to be at the beginning of the most attractive or the one that represents parallel health insurance for the higher standard of services. I just think there are elements here. Insurance companies are careful here. I've spoken to the people of this branch. They expect space to be created there, just profit is their idea of leadership, it's completely natural and I expect them to find their place in this system. Of course, we have a fund decentralisation. I expect greater control of the spending of money, simply without these key health care parameters there is no improvement in the system. Of course, a package of health services, he's been talked about a lot. Finally, a health care package is in law. On the one hand, a good provision, a lot of insistence on it many years back, and on the other hand it may be problematic if the package is to be changed, then the law must be amended. We are aware that the laws are not ideal, but they are the first step in transforming the system. The health care law, which came early in the procedure and already in June was like a bill here, also has solutions that support this issue that I've brought here tonight. So we have licenses, we have accreditation, we have competitions for directors. It's a law that has been expected for many years. He's probably overexpected, so today, with a little critical words, he's being talked about. So we expect to see what the effects of the law will be in practice and to make our experience come true. I repeat, a very sensitive system, a common concern for it, and I expect to correct the legal provisions unless some legal solutions have given effect. As far as chambers are concerned, I can say and the minister agreed on the Committee, that first, of course, the gain we get from the chambers is one achievement, and on the other hand we can agree that the powers of the chamber are relatively narrow or small. Of course, the law provides for a whole new way of setting up this area, an esnafian association that needs to protect doctors, to enable them to be educated and promoted, and on the other hand they need to protect patients. I've already given that thesis in some places, and it's about the doctor's responsibility, the criminal responsibility of a doctor who's been sanctioned, or established by law, is relatively rare, and fortunately, there are such situations, but relatively rarely is used as an instrument in punishing doctors who haven't done well. I think those sanctions are very harsh and it's best that doctors don't come under their stroke at all without doing their job properly. Of course, we have one solution that will in some ways affect our work in the best way. I think they do, but, on the other hand, if the license is taken care of, take care of both their status and their education. There really isn't an ideal solution. Some European countries do not have a license, because I know it is a very strong thesis, Switzerland, Germany do not have a license and say – a real license is the number of patients signing a contract with that doctor. I agree, it's a very strong thesis. On the other hand, we're really in a very sensitive period, and I don't think it's going to be too much of an area. I'm saying, there are opinions like this. It seems to me that if in the right way, and I have laid down the criteria for granting a licence with my amendments, the chamber is prescribed, not the minister; it is different in law and we will see if the Ministry accepts it. On the other hand, I think that if we do this the right way and we round this system and it can improve it, and we need to make sure that it is not a bureaucratic provision and that it does not increase costs. It's just something that should be common ground. In the end, two more laws: the bill on precursors of psychotropic substances regulates this area and we expect more laws from this area. The area has not been regulated and there is a possibility of abuse; it is good that the law has appeared and I would not comment on it. The Red Cross Act also regulates new powers of the Red Cross under changed circumstances. The Red Cross isn't just a humanitarian organization. She's taking over part of public authority. There was a problem with a set of laws being passed in the package; some laws, such as the health care law, came a long time ago, there was time for comments. The health insurance bill came in relatively late. The professional public requested that the health insurance law go before the other laws or at least along with them. It's filled, there's no ideal solution. Maybe it took more time for this. On the other hand, the health insurance law knows that it is tied to the budget and that some rights are unfortunately reduced, but it conditiones or causes a reduction in public spending by one decent percentage, and yet it is one of the conditions for all of our contracts with international financial organisations. Therefore, I repeat, the laws begin reforms with caution. I think it's a good thing there's no breach of the system that exists. Perhaps in some elements it should have gone more radically, perhaps some provisions should have been established in one way that allows the element of the market system to a greater extent. On the other hand, I've spoken a lot and I've made arguments about how sensitive this system is and how counterproductive such effects could be. Therefore, these laws begin the transformation of the health system. I expect us to follow the effects of the law together and in this sense improve these laws in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22099	Thank you, Mr. Ilic. Does anyone want to take advantage of their right to Article 93? Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you. Before I give you my word, Mr. Minister, please accept my deepest apology. Really, just a moment ago, I literally listened to the word of a speaker, which I have no right to. I didn't want to hurt anyone. Thank you so much for understanding. (Paja Momchilov, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure.) Here you go, Mr. Minister. Who? Mr. Ilic didn't mention you, and neither did I. I apologized to the MPs for something. Here you go, Mr. Milosavic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22100	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are entering the final minutes of the debate in the principle of laws in the field of health care. I thank you for an active debate all the time, and especially for speakers who, with everything in mind, have spoken so that I can freely rely on a comparative explanation analysis which makes such a group of health laws, three systemic and two sectoral, unusually significant at this point. Several times here is quoted as one of the organisations that is an important international partner of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Health in this business. On November 7th and 8th in Belgrade, we were together with the World Bank and the European Observatory, which is one publishing house sponsored by the World Bank and the Council of Europe, which actually monitors reforms of health systems in Europe, we had a seminar on the negotiation strategy to achieve a better effect in health institutions. On this occasion, there is one document in which one chapter begins with the next sentence – Serbia is on its way to the EU. There is no specific requirement or directive on health care for EU integration. However, there is a complex relationship between health and European legislation and there are obvious links between health care and the obligations on aspects of freedom of movement, consumer protection and social policy. First, it is necessary to ensure that health policy, systems and services contribute to the achievement of this obligation, especially with regard to the rule of law, human rights and protection of minorities. Secondly, there are obvious links between health and the success of the economy and between the health system and the macroeconomic sustainability of one country. An inadequate health financing policy or poor management of health insurance systems, poor health systems can impose a great burden on public finances and undermine the competitiveness of these national economies. Third, health systems need to adapt to the requirements of the single European market. This is particularly true of the free movement of goods, patients and health professionals. Fourthly, public health is an important element for co-ordination with the EU and the country will have to prepare and be able to exchange statistics according to Eurostat procedures and document the impact of promoting health and disease prevention, to control the users of their services, to properly address cross-sectoral issues, consumer protection, environment, agriculture. Fifthly, the competent health authorities in the EU accession candidate countries must contribute to accession negotiations, for example. with accounting calculations and analyses of the implications of access to health systems and of the planning to implement relevant EU health legislation. So, we are now talking about changing the miles in the area of health care that should allow us one step further in adapting to the high European standards that are waiting for us, because Serbia is on its way to the EU, not far, not in assumptions, but in negotiations on stabilisation and accession. In a few years, the health system should be ready to meet these challenges. The same document clearly states that a legal framework for the government's health policy in Serbia was implemented by the Constitution and the health care and health insurance law, the Serbian government and the health ministry documents are quoted. One of them is called-- better health for everyone in the third millennium. Work version of the health system reform strategy with an action plan by 2015. As you know, Serbia has a strategy to protect children's rights, a plan for action for children, has a strategy to fight tuberculosis, against HIV infection, to limit tobacco smoking, to protect the rights of mentally ill persons. The reform means a change of ruling relations in a peaceful system, with the consensus of the participants of the system. She is a process. She doesn't have a day when she starts and ends. We are in the process of reforming the system. In this sense, it is unusual to focus on what are the main burdens of the diseases of this society and really work where it is primary. At the first meeting of the Health Committee and the family of this congregation, of course, smokes actively, oho-ho. But at the recommendation of the Minister of Health, and of course I commend all the members of the Committee and the President of the Committee, ever since then, never again, and that is a small contribution. As for the activities recognised by the Ministry of Health and Health, in terms of promoting health and risk factors, three years ago every ten citizens in the polls knew that something was going on. The latest data says that between 28 and 30% of people already recognize our clear commitment and concrete action in this area. Of course we have a huge job to do, because one of the important elements of adapting to high standards is that it's certainly not worth just buying scanners and angio-salas, not working on prevention. However, one of the speakers allowed himself here to criticise the restoration of institutions. I have already explained once in the Assembly why the health minister in Serbia must today take care of painting, water treatment, sewers, roofs, window breathing, and for a long time. But I'm happy to tell you, when next week's up to 260km from Belgrade to the south, the Prokuplje will be opened in Toplička County scanner and it will be the last district in Serbia that has not had the possibility of scan diagnostics until that day, therefore, at the county level. There is no district in Serbia that in the county hospital, in the general hospital, there is no possibility of diagnostics on the scanner in the centre of the district. There's two districts where the territories where there's two. As far as angio-sala is concerned, I can proudly say that today angio-sala exists at the pediatric clinic in Tirshovo, at the Institute for Mother and Child and four new ones, two are already working, and two will work by the end of the year, at the Clinical Centre of Serbia and the new hall in Nis, in Kragujevac, and will develop a new hall on Dedinj and will develop new halls in Kamenica and Novi Sad, a total of 11. This is a significant step, and we had the opportunity to share satisfaction with colleagues from Germany, professors who helped treat children in Tirshova a few months ago, who said that the possibility of a pediatric clinic in Tirshova for the diagnosis and treatment of heart and blood vessels is the same as in the most developed centres in Germany. Of course it's not enough, but as you know, a dinar from a tobacco pack, according to the tobacco law, in 2007, will mean a billion dinars plus, which means a plan that will approve the government to invest at least 400 million in the equipment of institutions dealing with the diagnostic and treatment of tobacco-related diseases, at least 400 million for consumer material and medicines for these diseases, and 200 million for the final creation of a national strategy for non-infectious diseases and campaigns and preventive activities. We will all be witnesses and participants together, and I hope that there will be more MPs who will answer our call to come to Ada and that within the action "You are my heart", not to have lunch with diplomats, not to play the game with them, show that physical activities fight heart disease and play one by one, regardless of the minister's missed the penalty. So the definition of public health is mentioned here several times. Of course, Milan Jovanovic Batut, Andrija Printar, the beginners of health prevention and preservation, also used the term - folk health. Of course, we care about the health of the people getting better and stronger. There is a Law on Public Services, not People's Services. There is a law on public information, not on national information. So public health is, in fact, the skill and art of preserving and improving human health, extending life and improving the quality of that life. The 20th century has been declared a century of public health on the globe. 10 of the most important functions in the field of public health have been clearly defined. So, the 21st century is the age of public health, and Serbia-Montenegro is one of the first international documents in the field of public health, which is the World Health Organisation's Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, which awaits ratification in the parliament of the state community. So these are reasons why it is important to identify some categories that are clearly recognized in that environment of which we want to be a member. Serbia, of course, has a defined health policy. Of course he has a vision of the system and of course it's recognized by serious partners. After the adoption of these laws, before the end of this year, sublegal acts will define new standards, spatial, human and labour, for the first time in health institutions, and will define a sublegal act that defines a network of public sector institutions, the state sector. One of the arguments against the naked market and the direct market are the problems that transition countries had. After these laws, everyone in Serbia will be health insurance. People below the social minimum will not only have a health book without being able to get what they need, but will not have to pay any participation for the services they receive and will not have to pay for it. And now, today, participation at an annual level is limited to a total of up to one third of the average salary. The law gives the possibility, not given, but left and defined, to define the maximum amount at an annual level that can be filed by a Serbian citizen today by the underlaw of the Republic Health Insurance Institute, to which consent is given by the Ministry and the Government. The law has flexible mechanisms, just as counterpart Ilic said, that he could ensure that in the coming years we go through changes without having a legal basis. A few days ago, the prime minister of the Czech Republic was visiting Belgrade and visited with the KBC Health Minister "Dr Dragisa Misovic" because the citizens of the Czech Republic donated two and a half million euros to the citizens of Serbia to rebuild the hospital "Dr Dragisa Misovic" and will help further. To the Serbian Health Minister who is today the biggest problem in the Czech health system, you know what his answer was? The problem is that we have to build a state office or a health insurance fund that will provide both the sick and the old and the poor, because in 1992 the Czech Republic had 25 private insurance companies running in privatisation, so in 1998, eight of them went bankrupt. Last week they elected a new health minister. In 13 years, it's the 10th Minister of Health. The transition is difficult, it requires carefully measured moves, it requires respect for what you have. The laws proposed to you are trying to follow a path that respects what we have and opens space, and there have been many examples of it, for a controlled market, for payment, for the way they can change their ruling relations. I am obliged to say that a serious area, which is directly linked to the restructuring of Serbia's hospital capacities, which is under way, and I mention because these areas are defined in the law, is a Paliatical care. Disease, loss and death are an integral and inevitable part of life. The European Conference of Palitative Care under the auspices of the Council of Europe was held in Belgrade on October 21st and 22nd with the participation of top officials of the Council of Europe and Belgrade's conclusions have been reached. So, Belgrade's conclusions on palitative care are that across Europe, countries are beginning to recognise and deal with the increased need for palitative care. It is estimated that over the next 10 to 15 years, 20% will increase the need for a palliative care of only older people. This poses a major challenge for all European countries and the need to engage in the decades-long development of palitative care. There is a recommendation from the 2003 EU Committee of Ministers and a recommendation from the Council of Europe. The conference positively assessed the availability of recommendations in 20 different languages, thanks to the European Association for Paliatical Care. A June 2004 Council of Europe conference in Oslo adopted a Declaration on Health, Dignity and Human Rights, and Belgrade's conclusions were adopted in October 2005. Paliatical care involves care for chronic states, diseases that you sometimes have to face and that are incurable and require long-term hospitalization. Paliatical care must not be a luxury available only to wealthy countries or to wealthy patients in poor countries. The final conclusion of this meeting is – Paliatical care for all who need it. Five to 10% of beds in Serbian general hospitals, in a restructuring process initiated by development projects funded by a favourable 50m-euro European Investment Bank loan in 20 hospitals in Serbia from north to south, and from west to east, is exactly how these facilities should be better organised. One of the rooms is five to ten percent of the beds for the chronic hospitalization for paliatical care. There are no ideal regulations, no magic solutions, no magic sticks, no country in Europe that has perfectly solved the health system, which can be transplanted, brought and that it grows. There are good examples, avoiding other people's mistakes, using the best and applying on local terms. The laws we offer as a proposal are a step forward in any case, as much as we all are able to implement together: both the Ministry of Health and the Assembly Committee on Health and Family, tomorrow and health institutions and chambers, which Serbia will receive after 60 years. After six decades, professionals will have a chamber like their colleagues have not so far from here, 200, 300 kilometers away, wherever you go, west, north, east, south, you'll find chambers. We'll have them in Serbia in 2006. We have, I'll dare say, without excessive patheticity, an important task, which also has the dimensions of historical -- to take one decisive step forward and to show that we know exactly what these solutions are making. In 2006 you have no savings regarding medicines, the drugs will be more. It's not equipment savings, there'll be more equipment. There's no savings in space and comfort, he'll be more. The guarantee for this is: compare the budget you've been considering these days with the 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001 budgets, you'll see that 1:10 is the difference in favour of this now. The savings are on account of what should be in every orderly system. We can't be sick when we're not sick. The money should be directed when it is necessary for treatment, for the preservation of health and for its improvement. The savings are on the expense of sickness, nonmedical giving and on the expense of an extremely fair move. There's been a few thousand mentions here. No, gentlemen, 7,140 people volunteered to leave the health care facility on October 31st with severance dues, fair enough. By the end of November, it will also be done in Vojvodina health institutions, and then between 2005 and 2010, we will be well-invited and we respect standards, so that we no longer build capacity without rational resonance. I apologize for the length of the exposure, I had the feeling and the need to tell you this at the end of today's hard day. It was worth it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22101	Thank you, Dr. Milosavljevic. We'll also consider experience from the Czech transition. I am concluding a joint principled search on the Proposal for a Health Insurance Act, the Red Cross Act of Serbia, the Proposal for a Law on Health Care Chambers, the Proposal for a Law on Substances used in the illicit production of intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances and the Proposal for a Health Protection Act. The word is given to the People's Messenger of Pai Boys, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22102	I'm advertising Article 104(1). You, Mr. President, have misunderstood me. You just said you let the time run to fulfill the wish of an MP. It's probably supposed to be me. You didn't understand the situation. Mr. Secretary looked at the clock, and I just wanted to tell him about the orientation, well-intentioned, collegiately, how long this debate would take. You've made one comment that you've released, since I'm conducting a dialogue with the people, and we're having a dialogue with the people and we're part of the people and we're the real representatives of the people, our number tells it, our story tells the same, and then you say, "Here's the answer." What was the answer? Quiet. Our great Grace, when he heard the silence, you know what he said. You haven't apologized to me, I'm sorry, I haven't heard. I'm not asking for that apology, I'm just saying, when you hear the pain and the silence, then you have to worry. That silence can have many meanings. You think about it. I'm saying you wanted to grant my wish. I didn't ask you to make a circus out of parliament. You can continue, I don't mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-17-0.u22103	Once again, I apologized to you, as I did to all the other MPs, for saying that I listened to what was said, and three things were said, but there's no reason to repeat. I apologize if I got anything wrong, I didn't want to hurt anyone, and there was no silence. Thank you very much. Now we're going to be quiet to finish tomorrow at 10.00 when we continue the discussion of the details. Because of those who are planning, we will try to work tomorrow until the debate ends in the details of the first two points of the agenda, and if we finish this before 1800 hours, we won't continue, we won't go to the third point. Thank you very much.
