ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24023	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Eighth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record, I find that the session is attended by 90 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, more than one third of the MPs are present in the hall and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of MP Ivica Dacic. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: – Stop duty, SECURATION AND CHOICE OF THE LAWAL FUNCTIONS Has the word National MP Marko Krstin, authorised representative of the G17 Plus parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24024	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, G17 plus is always pleased to take part in the debates on this issue, as well as on other issues, because what is being considered in front of this home is of paramount importance for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We can't, as part of the opposition, stay away from the most important problems and not solve them and think it's enough to look at things on the side and wait for the wrong step. We take part in events with all our hearts and try best to solve what is in the interests of Serbian citizens. When deciding on the choice of judicial authorities, G17 plus takes note that we are raising the personnel potential of a branch of government that is extremely important for the functioning of the legal system and the establishment of the rule of law. Without the staffing of the judicial authorities, we can pass laws, there will be no rights in this country. Indeed, the judicial authorities are what is necessary to establish a legal system and a legal state in Serbia. When deciding on the choice of judicial authorities, as so far, G17 plus will, above all, take care of the expertise of the proposed candidates and their dignity to perform the functions for which they are candidates. This is where we heard the opposition of individual candidates. We have 48 proposals from the High Council of Justice before us. The High Council of Justice has, as so far, proposed its post, proposed certain candidates, but in the Assembly, it is a sovereign right to decide whether these candidates fulfil the conditions to represent the people's will when it comes to deciding on behalf of the people, as it does in judgments and writings. So, out of 48 candidates, 11 candidates have been challenged. We have 23 court presidents and 25 judges ahead of us. The G17 plus will be defined during the vote by taking care of the expertise and consistency, of all the arguments that we have heard here and of the arguments that citizens give us regarding individual candidates. The G17 plus, during the last election of judicial officials, particularly advocated the respect of the deadlines in the work of the courts. Given that it says - that justice is slow but accessible, it can not apply to one who did not get what it belongs to within the time period, and death seems unorthodox and many citizens cannot exercise their rights precisely because their deaths end some of the actions. That is why we have proposed that all measures be taken to update all deadlines and that the judicial authorities be established by respecting the legal deadlines. I can express my satisfaction that we have learned from both citizens and those who act before the courts that our Supreme Court has taken steps to ensure that cases are handled within the legal deadlines, that cases are updated in a number of courts, that judges report and that many procedures are accelerated. We believe that these activities are very important for the establishment of a rule of law and we will continue to initiate such activities. This time I express our satisfaction that this position G17 plus is accepted and what the judiciary is beginning to do within the deadlines, as set by law, in order to establish a rule of law, as the laws require. We make laws here not to formally pass 200 laws in less than two years, but to respect them. In respect of and enforcement of the law, the role of the court is necessary, as the court will say in a specific case who is right and in a specific case applies the law. That's why it's very important that things work within the deadline. However, I must say that, regardless of the measures taken by the Supreme Court, namely its President and the President of individual courts, we still have a situation in which many cases are not working within the legal time limits. We need to draw attention to that, because it is in the best interest of protecting citizens' rights. I will point out one specific case, not to the extent of the event, it is a dispute involving the Company "Brothers Karic", which is co-owner of our mobile phone, along with our state-owned company. The case raised the question of the name of a company that participates as co-owner with a state-owned company in the establishment of a company. This is what our Trade Court in Belgrade has responded to so that, apart from its jurisdiction, it has corrected the company's names in the register after 11 years of their enrolment, and that year, since we have given power to business registers to the Agency for Economic Registers, which is indeed working on an up-to-date basis. A trade court in Belgrade, on request, of course, changes the Karic Company after 11 years of its entry into the court register. Of course, the state, protecting its interests, is making a complaint to the court that is not competent, because the court has resolved something. Since 29 September 2005, the court has not filed a complaint with the senior court. So it's about obviously obstructing this procedure. We have repeatedly, in oral form, addressed the Commercial Court in Belgrade, 5, 6, 7 and 12 - the explanation is very interesting, a large number of workers are on sick leave and cannot be timely in delivering an appeal for the decision of the Higher Trade Court. I call on the representatives now, unfortunately the President of the Supreme Court is not here, to continue to take steps to update the deadlines in which the courts are acting. It is very important that the deadlines are followed. I think this is an eclectic example of how it shouldn't be done. So the complaint has been made, it doesn't matter that the Trade Court has made a decision, the appeal exists. The trade court is required to deliver to the High Court of Commerce, without delay, when it has obtained an answer to the appeal, to decide. When I represent the parties to the court, I say -- solve the case, don't hold the case in the drawer, it won't be the right to be solved that way. However we save the subject, the client has a right to appeal. The legal path should be allowed to take place regularly. If the courts hold cases in drawers, if the courts do not solve cases within deadlines, they always, and justifiably, ask the question by the parties whether corruption exists. I'm not gonna say it always exists, but I want to say it exists, because that's what it looks like to me. I can't believe that three months can't be served by an appeal for a decision to the High Court of Commerce. This is obviously an example of the court’s bias and must be stopped. Furthermore, I would like to say the following - we have a lot of complaints from the judges themselves that certain courts are very burdened with regard to some other courts that have slightly more opportunities and more time to solve cases. I've talked about it a few times, it's a pretty big procedure. When I say - bigger courts, I mean New Sad, Belgrade, Nis, they have extremely burdened judges. So if you take that they have an average of 350 to 400 litigation cases in general, then you can imagine when the party that sued there comes up to schedule a debate. We have a constitution guaranteed equality before the law and the right of citizens to use a legal remedy against the decision of any authority. I think that if a citizen presses charges in Belgrade or Novi Sad, he is to a certain extent in a worse position than a citizen who presses charges in a smaller place, not reducing the importance of courts in places that are not that size. I believe that in the organisation of the judiciary, more could be done to balance the organisation of the judiciary so that, as much as possible, evenly or evenly burdened judges, too, for the protection of the rights of citizens, because in some courts this comes in order after four months, and somewhere it can be scheduled in a month. It's a big procedure, and I think the Justice Department should work on it. That's what I expect, the minister is here. One more thing I'd like to say, we've been acting in court, which as a lawyer I can say, we've had a lot of problems with the lack of qualified professional and state-verified skills. This problem has existed for a long time, since 2000, there have been certain requests and I have received assurances from the minister that all requirements will be resolved and that our judiciary will finally receive the required number of high-quality skills, which the state has checked, means that they meet formal conditions, so that as a necessary part of the court procedure, it will be available to citizens and help the exercise of rights. I believe that in a situation like this, when we really have 11 candidates who have been challenged, that in the vote itself we will identify ourselves as individual candidates. I think that, indeed, every candidate needs special attention, because it's about people who are already in the judiciary, who have been identified as a life call for the judiciary, and it doesn't matter whether someone passed or didn't pass this step, but I think it's an even bigger problem if someone who can't really protect citizens' rights goes through the stairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24025	The word is by MP Petar Cvetkovic, the authorised representative of the DSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24026	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the election of 23 presidents of the courts and 25 judges. As pointed out in the debate, we are in the process of electing judges, i.e. the president of the courts at the end. We are pleased to find that a large number of court presidents have been appointed over the past period and a number of new judges have been elected. In this process, within my jurisdiction, that is, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, within its jurisdiction, is obliged to appoint high-quality, professional people as judge presidents, i.e. to make quality, professional, working, able-choice choices for judges, which will transform the multi-decade trend of selecting obedients into a trend of choosing capable. This will raise the entire judicial system, or the judiciary to a higher level, to a level that requires the moment of this democratic state and the EU that we are seeking. In this process of building an effective judiciary, I believe that, in addition to the work that is very important for an effective and effective judiciary, and not dependent on the participants, or the president of the courts and judges, it is the adoption, that is, of effective material and procedural laws, where we are very close to achieving the goal achieved, and thanks to the Ministry of Justice, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As you know, in the past we have passed a number of new laws, i.e. amendments to existing laws, which we have greatly harmonised our legal system, even according to some solutions, and I am free to say, we have surpassed the EU's solutions, which, as I said, we are pursuing in the next period. So it's not enough just to pass effective, modern, material and procedural laws, such as the very important Criminal Law, or the Law on Criminal Procedure, or the Law on Parity Procedure, as a very important law that we will consider today in particular, which is only an upgrade of this one legal system, a mortgage law, but also a choice of high-quality judges and, as I said, quality judges. To be understood, quality, I mean, professional, working, capable, effective judges, who will do a higher level of trust in work. In the current practice of this call for parliament, it has been shown that where we have appointed competent court presidents, these courts have shown significantly better results over a certain period of time. So, competent court presidents do not necessarily, but they do make a significant contribution to the efficiency of the courts, because they organise the work of the courts at a higher level, and in a short, hopefully longer period, it shows more significantly. At the same time, an effective president of the court does not mean that the president of the court is in bad relations with all judges, or with the entire judge collective, or vice versa, to support the judges in everything, so it is literally one among the same. The President of the Court must, in that capacity, do his job to have a measure that will also go towards improving the conditions of the work of the judges, and thus to improve the efficiency of the courts and to achieve justice more effectively. The more effective and faster decision-making, either in the first degree, or in the second instance, is achieved by citizens, and thus, the impression that the court and the state are much more effective, is much easier to resolve a certain disputed legal relationship effectively and effectively, shortly after the problem arises, that is, the emergence of conflict, than after some long period. As I said, it is also necessary to select judges who are not only willing, not only professional, but who also have the capacity to do a specific judicial work. Also, what the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and we, by passing certain laws, have made a significant contribution, by improving the working conditions, the basic and material position of the judges, will speed up both efficiency and better work, or by raising the judiciary to the level we need and which at this point is necessary and to whom, taking into account all our efforts, we seek. So there are also the results that are possible at this point. According to the Ministry's proposal, or Government, we have, in the past, tried to improve the working conditions, as well as the material position of the judges, and to bring them to some acceptable level. I will not say that we have achieved our goal and that we do not need to take further action. We are at the beginning of that road that must be difficult, when improving the court's conditions, i.e. increasing the level of efficiency of the judiciary and, as I said, raising to a level which is the EU level, or the European Community, which we aim at in the near future. Therefore, today's proposal of the High Council of Justice within the DSS has also been discussed very closely. It's possible we have some wrong information, but from this moment on, very few people I'm going to challenge, until the decision is made, we're ready to correct any mistake. It is not our goal to prevent the election of the president of the courts or the choice of judges, as I said, that we should most professionally choose to do the job. We aim to provide these elected judges with conditions for smooth, successful work and therefore, as I said, we will challenge a very small number of people. The DSS contests the election of the President of the Municipal Court in Stari Pazova, Mr. Cetojevic Dusan, the candidate for the municipal court judge in Pozarevc Robert Jovanovic and the President of the Municipal Court in Bor Stojanovic Dragica, and the President of the Trade Court in Leskovic Veselin Savic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24027	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorized representatives, want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that, according to Article 63(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups, in fact only one parliamentary group - the SRS. The People's Messenger Aleksandar Vukic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24028	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would say more MPs of the SRS than all the others combined, but this speaks of the responsibility of MPs of the ruling majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Every time we talk about naming and resolving judges, we have a problem. We have a problem because we plead to people, some of us know something, many of us know nothing. As the National Assembly and MPs, we are obliged to give our own judgment on their work, on their abilities, on their opportunities and on what should be done and done in the future on a professional basis, on one of the most responsible functions in our country and in our society. What I have to say and that today is a big problem for our judiciary is that we still don't have one, even though the MPs of the SRS insisted on it, so on. A judicial budget. With us, everything depends on the executive authority, more specifically the finance minister, as the minister here says, since they call him. So, according to Mladjan Dinkic, there is money or no money, that will be your verdict, so the prosecution will react or not react, and so will everyone else in the justice system behave. Why is that today? What kind of justice do we have today that boasts, first of all, that, I would say, reformed, that in much progress, every day we watch special shows, about some special courts, as if we weren't enough regular courts, as if we had arranged everything there, so we needed special ones, so we needed rules to amend the laws on some kind of witness associates, so today our biggest criminals and mobsters are the most relevant witnesses in certain processes. So you can hear well that it's the plague that decides who killed who on the streets of Belgrade, and he's a saint and good, and he blames some others there who were with him. So they got in a fight, so now all this guy says is exactly what he said. Let's not talk about any other court proceedings, since I can see that there's been a glorification of this special war crimes court. A gang has gathered with a political task to condemn anyone who comes to their senses and to get support for it from individual embassies and to praise their work by Natasa Kandic. I don't know if you've noticed, honourable MPs, after every verdict and after all that happens, the question goes to the president of the humanitarian law fund, whether you're satisfied with the verdict. Here I ask Mr. Minister, who seems to have better things to do, to ask the representatives of the ruling majority, what is the matter with you, Natasa Kandic? What are these people to you? Who are these people? What are they in this land, and you ask them whether they are satisfied with the judgements or not? You asked someone, Sam Nazaro, I checked, last time I made a mistake, that's the name of the man, he's from one of the embassy. He says I'm satisfied with this verdict. Some Serb, of course, is convicted of not knowing what, Florist or something. He says he's satisfied with the verdict. Like what? Cvetkovic. Guys, I'm asking you if anyone can explain what they have to do with this country and who they are to assess the court's decisions. Does this mean that if Natashi Kandic and Sam Nazaru do not like the verdict and that the verdict must never be and cannot become judicial or executive. As possible, in our society, I ask again the question, be condemned by a judicial verdict because of the lack of an order, and that order existed, but burned in October 5th, Dragan Milanovic for a crime, and not convicted of crimes by those who are directly perpetrators of the crime. Why don't you explain that math to me, come on genius, come on out and explain it to me. There's no genius here, I listened to him yesterday, what's-his-name, this genius, Albianic. That's not the kind of genius a mother gave birth to. This minister, the second genius, is the two geniuses of the Serbian political scene, Mladjan Dinkic. I'm waiting for them to come out and explain that legal logic, legal mathematics. Explain that to me, my people, so I will understand everything in this country. Just explain that math to me. Or explain to me how it's possible, Mr. Cvetkovic, not to be prosecuted by official duty by those who lynch someone, and for that you have video footage, you have all the evidence, and you go after people when they fight on the street, you arrest some football players when they get laid, basketball, and I don't know who. Just explain that math to me. What's the D.A. doing? You say the prosecution is on its own. What are the courts doing? Is anyone allowed to pass a verdict that does not like Natasha Kandic and Sam Nazar? Is there anyone there? There is. There will be some, but in these important processes none will be found. Since everything has to be the way they drew and wrote to you, since everything in this country has to happen just like that, because in this country, the D.A.'s office is going to deal with the persecution of political opponents when it suits him, and it's going to protect forever those who think they can't do anything. Natasa Kandic can hit pensioners on the streets of Belgrade, who have come to say that Kosovo and Metohija is the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and our courts say whether or not there is no or no, the prosecution says there is no basis for prosecution, and the courts in private lawsuits bring a liberating verdict. What are we talking about? What are you talking about here? I'm telling you about the situation in our judiciary, so if you have anything wise to tell me, come out for the pay phone, so say it, not pretend you're smart and throw away. The situation in our judiciary is such, file criminal charges against Mladjan Dinkic, that's genius number two, file criminal charges against him and for a year and two months there's no response from the prosecution, can't tell you it's not true what you wrote, but it won't say it's true because it can't, because they're going to take him down right away, because they're going to put him away right away. Then when Boris Tadic gets involved in the story of criminal charges for his, Bogdanovic and others, and they write him a report from their government, from their government, Djelic's ministry, then they say, and it's not right and it's not enough. That's why when he's supposed to go after the bonuses the workers received, there's the D.A.'s office. When he was to pursue the Radicals or that Zhivanka Radovancheva, a very nice and decent man from Zrenjanin, he was once in the SPS, as soon as the man in prison was driven away for giving workers bons, who signed the same as DOS ministers. Do you know that case? Let's just say, I signed the bonuses, I didn't sign them, but by objective responsibility, 1,000 dinars and fines, there's a criminal application. After me came the transitional government - Dacic, DOS Minister Biserka Matic-Spasojevic and Bogoljub Pejcic. They've been giving in three more months than I have in nine months, twice as many. Nothing to them, and you're getting a criminal report. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Where is it, folks? Please explain. Where's that "genius," that mathematician of yours, that says the radicals are guilty of bombings and inflation. More geniuses haven't informed us that we brought down the government precisely because of that inflation. He doesn't remember that story. He connected it all to his coalition partners. He wants to criticize his coalition partners, so he doesn't know what to do, so he attacks radicals. These political mice, these political dwarfs, who have two or three percent, and three percent with the pole to skip, such political gnomes say: they are scared of the election, we will not apologize. Oh, come on! Why didn't you say that here when Aligrudic came out and said that and when Toma Nikolic came out? They kept quiet like the bays, trembled with fear of being elected, for even on the postcard they would no longer see the congregation. There would be no Saturdays, because postcards for many, not all, but for many postcards with great delay reach individual cells, so the question is whether or not the postcards could see the Serbian Assembly. Then the point is, come on, we'll say now, you're doing the blame for everything on the globe of the Earth, we've been encouraged and we've been encouraged, and we're going to send statements, and Bogoljub Karic is going to broadcast to us on our television what we have to say against the radicals! Here, now all the geniuses from all the parties, gather around, come out, call God's television and say everything you have to say, radical lunatics, psychopaths, like this, like this, say it all well, they'll let you go. The only problem with you is the people won't believe you. The only problem for you is that we come to the Bačka Palank rally yesterday, the people welcome us, you've seen how many worlds there have been, and some of us have to organize a prize game and a lottery to make the gatherings, share the car today. They organize and say, "The lottery's coming." Today we're going to share a car. Let's schedule a rally. These "yellows" set him up at the movies. We're at the central town square, and they're at the movies. These geniuses are putting pressure on the people. Seriously. When the people see them, their pressure suddenly rises, and there is no salvation. They don't measure the judge's pressure, they measure the people, and the people's pressure jumps from your authority, Mr. Minister. Trust me on this one. These "genius" from this "expert group" and the pressure measures, they say, "let us measure your pressure, and you vote for us." The people say, "measure it, for I have not seen such a miracle, but if I vote for you, there is no power." People know that. Let me ask you why you didn't say anything when Aligrudić went out for a pay phone? Why didn't you say something, but remember smart, kiss their mother, after three hours to send a statement -- it wasn't me, neither was I. No, it's my Aunt Smile sending a statement and talking from this pay phone. You can't wait for the election! I see. And then you'll measure the pressure on the people, except then they'll jump to 250. Dear Mr. Minister, I've asked some questions here that have nothing to do with these geniuses and those that remember two days later that they need to send a statement and turn out to be very clever. Mr. Minister, I'm asking you to tell me what this has to do with your judiciary. What does she have to comment on court rulings? What's up, Sam Nazaro? I know he comes to the Ministry a lot. What does he have to do with our justice system? Mr. Minister, how is it possible for me to ask you, since you weren't here, I will repeat that Milanovic was convicted because there was an order, so it was found, because of October 5th, and that those who are definitely murderers, who boast that they are murderers, there is no verdict against them? To explain this mathematics to me and explain to me the work of the prosecution in such a way, the work of our courts, because I can't understand it. There were some more questions here, not to bother you, but less significant. Let me ask you, are only football players and basketball players punished for fighting, and not those who lynch political opponents, and there are videos? What country does he have in the world, Mr. Minister? Either you're gonna tell me that it's good to lynch someone because their last name is Milanovic, or because you don't like it, or because they were bad TV, so it's allowed? If that's how it is, to get ready, there are a lot of bad TVs, but we don't want to be involved, we think it's against the law. You let us know from this pay phone whether the decriminalization of that act has been committed. If it is done, I know many of whom you will make it easier in Serbia, but I ask you to inform people. It cannot be true for those who will lynch Milanovic, beat up an older man lying on the ground, kick his legs, etc., and for others to go to jail. I'm asking you to explain that math or that right to me, that legal logic. I know you're all afraid in this country to say any word, because B 92 is going to say, "Yeah, there they are protecting them, they've mentioned Milanovic again, they've been visiting. I didn't leave again. If anyone's got a problem with this, I'll be leaving soon. Here, let me let you know in advance, let me piss them off a little bit, see what those B-92s tell me about it or anyone else. Unlike you, we're not afraid to say what we're thinking and we're not afraid to ask you where your logic is. I don't care about their haika and haranga, and I don't care about everything they say and everything they make up, because this is true and because you know this is true. I'm asking you to explain to me whether we have courts that appreciate political integrity, is that going to like Natasha Kandic? How can she get an acquittal for beating up old people on the street? How can the D.A. not go after her for something like that? He says he's gonna jump the whole world! Go! Go! Seriously! He says he can't go! Oh, come on! Some can't. Some can't. Why isn't anyone chasing Dinkic? There are criminal charges against Dinkic all you want. No one's chasing him. Why isn't anyone chasing a lot of others? Because they're close to the authorities. I'm being sued by the D.A.'s office for the initiation of a pre-criminal procedure for the distribution of bonds, and there's no criminal record of those who've distributed twice as many bonuses to the workers in three months, but I, in nine months, these ministers of yours. They're laughing at the police, they're laughing at everyone. It's been a long time. It doesn't matter. You almost convicted that Radovan. What kind of lunatics do they do there? Is there something wrong with them? I don't know what it's about, I can't understand it. If you can, come out and explain. I just think that Serbia needs to have a judiciary that the geniuses won't get involved in, these geniuses who remember to send a statement and say they don't apologize when it's all over and when it's clear that there won't be another day's election, and then they're very brave and smart, otherwise like a spring shakes on a hurricane, they don't know what they'll be afraid of, but they'll tell the kids, the family -- don't wait for us tonight, we don't know what we'll do after all. Then they are very brave and smart to go on TV and say that someone else is around to blame for everyone in Serbia. In any case, Mr. Minister, we need order, we need respect for the law, we need to know that the courts are making decisions in this country, not B92, Natasa Kandic and Sam Nazaro. As they make decisions, cheer and dress according to special courts, as long as the testimony of an associate witness, usually a criminal, is based on your judgments, consider whether these judgments are valid, whether they are fair and whether they can be fully in line with the truth, in accordance with what happened. I don't think I can, especially under this kind of pasture, under this kind of pressure from certain media, and you can't tell them anything because after that they're going to attack you and accuse you of something. Let them attack you. You know, a policy person has to learn to put up with everything, he has to learn to suffer attacks, because you have to make decisions. The other day I read in the paper -- MPs eat lamb and pork in a restaurant. You read it on page three, page four of some newspapers. They say they kill each other. Why don't you tell the truth? Why can't you answer that? It's not about radicals, but I'll say it. I come down once in seven days, usually take a donkey, I can't sit down from those reporters downstairs. You can't find a place and you all know it so you can't say it, Minister. I know you do. Why can't you say so? You can't find a place down from them, and then we're lamb brigades, and they're nice, smart and honest. Because you're afraid of everyone else, because you're afraid of your own shadows. I don't mean you personally. You're better and better than the others, at least in that sense. No one's allowed to ask them-- well, sister, what have you got to do with that verdict, who are you to be there, to assess whether the court has reached a judgment big enough or not, which you are? I ask you who this Natasa Kandic is, what is she in this country, who is this Sam Nazaro, who are you, what are they in this country? Come on out and tell me that. What are they to say - this verdict is good. Well, I'm happy with this verdict. Then she says, "I'm happy with this verdict." Go on, you're really happy. I'm laughing now, but I can't believe I'm looking at it dead seriously, I'm looking at it as a contribution. Milina, it's a miracle. We are insulted every day by various analysts, everyone is very smart in this country, everyone knows everything. Go to the election, run for something, don't make it up, mess with something for a bowl of cabbage and a plate of beans that someone can give you so you can make up what comes to your mind, anywhere or in any way. We live in a land of absurdity. Leave the courts alone and I will no longer hear her say she is satisfied with some verdict and that this other one is saying that he is satisfied with the verdict. I don't care if they're satisfied with the verdict, we want justice to be served, that our people are satisfied, that there's justice in this country, that criminals go to prison and that honest people are free. That's the purpose of our judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24029	The word has a National MP, Zoran Krasic, and let the National MP Milan Stevovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24030	That official part of this agenda we ended yesterday. There may be an extension in the speeches of some SRS MPs, but I would take advantage of this opportunity, when we discuss the choice of holders of judicial functions, to look at some of the circumstances under which these people should perform these very significant functions. The situation and the situation in the judiciary vary from place to place. Believe me, we have some localities and some courts where probably only after the fourth round of elections can we get to some people who would stick to the law and the profession. It's just a situation. The situation was ruined the moment Vladan Batic was elected justice minister. He started with a voluntary and violent lustration. Voluntary by system, let's go if someone repents and resigns and escapes, and the violent lustration has had several modes. One of these is that all judges condemn their colleague and make his life and work intolerable, and if they fail to drive the man out of the judiciary, then the NGO gets on stage, then the Society of Judges, and in the final version of the minister through the judicial board, Bosko Ristić, Dragor Hiber and those who have cheered and clothed here for three years. In these conditions, we have received new, young, unskilled, who know nothing, who think the whole right comes down to whether the DOS coalition will give support or not, who hash out what object and how to persecute someone who is politically unsuitable. It has become a new system of values and, of course, it cannot be corrected so quickly. In such a Dosmanli system, special courts have also appeared to us. Of course, I will try to make sure that I do not break some obligation that exists, which refers to the ban on commenting on certain court proceedings that are under way. If I continue to express something, and as far as some proceedings are concerned, be assured that it is one change from what, abuse of authority as a journalist or a member of an NGO there, everyone else is doing a lot more. But I have to say something that's not to say, which is simply not to be said in this country. The Democratic Party has formed, I purposely say the Democratic Party, a special division for the trial of organised crime by system -- a lot of pay, please, who will answer. We've also received court and prosecutorial portfolios. Believe me, in Serbia, when Bruno Vekaric shows up, half of the citizens turn off the TV and the other one spits on that TV. A cold face appears to finish both the prosecutor and the court, and NGOs and The Hague tribunal. And you're still guarding him, and you know that he illegally escaped from the Justice Department before the DOS crash and hid himself into a permanent function, from where he does whatever he wants, with the Ministry he may be communicating or not communicating, but with the NGOs he totally communicates that he's finishing their jobs and representing their interests. I don't know where the court's spokesmans and prosecutors came from. I don't think there's any such thing as law. Minister, by letter, I expect you to inform them that there is no such thing in the law, and since there is no law, let them flee into the mice' holes. That's what I'm saying publicly, let them run to the mice' holes. Mr Stojkovic, in this court made by the Democratic Party for the fight against organised crime, for the trial of organised crime, alcohol reigns, so colleagues do not communicate with each other. When she, a folk hero, is supposed to make a press release, she chases Kljajevic, and he won't give any information. You may not know it, but I do. There, I know. I also know how these actions take place. Mr. Wolf gave you a little hint, but you weren't there. Very strange things happen in this other democratic war crimes court. He's probably familiar. If you don't know it, it's your government too. That prosecutor goes across the street to Tadic for his opinion. A few days ago, a first-degree procedure was completed. You won't find any of the defense attorneys in the final statement in the media, but you will find what Natasa Kandic said as a power of attorney for the damaged. It is always the power of the damaged and only those who are not Serbs. She is the authority of the damaged Shiptars, the power of the damaged alleged Croats, the authority of the alleged Muslims, all she is the power of attorney, but if she is the power of power of the Serb she would cut the veins. Because he has to listen to his first boss, Voyin Dimitrievich, who hates this people, that you know, that's what I'm telling you, and everything he has to do to make as much chaos here as possible. I don't want to go into these court proceedings any further. Talk to your lawyers, talk to those who have been professionally following this trial, and they will tell you what part it was staged in and why it was set up, because three tasks were to be carried out. The first, to increase the number of indictees, the second to make mistakes for some because of The Hague and the third to satisfy the interests of the international community. In that court, you are commanded by the UN tribunal's outstretched department. I know you're gonna say-- courts are on their own, like the minister doesn't have any influence, I don't need to interfere, but there's even less reason to involve those others you mentioned. They have absolutely no reason to interfere, nor have any authority. Something strange is happening in that cohabitation of yours. It's very strange. The football alliance holds DS, the basketball union DS, the volleyball DS, the handball DS, the water polo that's president, all of them hold. Not this one, it's Tadic. If I were to think of Mr. Chairman, I would say Mr. Vojislav Mihailovic, and when I say this president, I mean this one across the street, whose Sutanovac says - well, Tadic has to move beyond the framework that the National Assembly has agreed and established here as a platform for negotiations. They go public with that. In your co-habitation or Serbian intercourse, the Democrats are somehow worse and some new figure of Venus is for the DSS and this government. It looks like you're enjoying that new figure because if you didn't enjoy it, you'd say, move, aman people, something plus something is minus, something's positive, something's negative, something's normal, something's not normal. You're putting up with everything. I don't mind what you put up with, but I feel bad that I'm running out of state. That hurts. It pains me that I'm running out of state and that for the next month or a few years when you say -- here, democratically all came some new power, for nothing, but we don't have a state. You see, they picked up all the sponsors through those sports associations. They've got the banking system, they've got the justice system. Which doesn't take advantage of their influence in the judiciary to finally solve the matter of Bodrum. Bodrum was only important before the election. No more. This country is run by DS. DS - Boris Tadic, no matter how many factions there are, NGOs lead what is called DS, and they act according to their orders, and they give orders to Soros, and not to tell you, there are quite a lot of them. I object to that, Minister, and as you can see today, I will not have this great justice to banish on some candidate for a judge's post in a place where a man should start his career. I call on all of them to catch laws and regulations, not to ask any political party, any president of the municipality, no one alive for what they get in hand to apply the law. I want to tell them it's up to them whether or not the state will survive, but from you who are the authorities, let's take care of what's going on, in these two courts is a breakdown, chaos. Last night, Mr. Minister, I pointed out to you a democratic candidate for the president of the court, for reelection, since he was bigger once. That's the one from Old Paz. You've seen, for him, the legacy and the right to use a social apartment. Mr. Minister, he has to leave tomorrow, kick him out, kick him out of court, because he doesn't know on purpose. Well, I may have made a mistake, so the second degree will make it right. That place isn't in court. In this country, the DS for whatever it is, it's dried up. The Serb people's cancer and political scene of Serbia is DS. The citizens feel it, the citizens will condemn it. At what rate? Whether in the next election, whether or not in the second, let the people prescribe. Everyone has their right to vote, let them use it as they wish, it's mine to point it out. Watch this work. You can see for yourself, Mr. Minister, for a year now, you've been unable to choose a good fit for the district of the County Court in Capco. How many times have there been candidates, and someone argues and falls? The second time, the candidate falls, the third, and he'll probably challenge someone and probably fall. Do you now understand the influence of Dusan Petrovic in the judiciary on the territory of the District Court of Sapco? Here's that Chonjagic, a few months ago when one candidate failed, he took out his card and began cursing his fellow MPs as they did not vote. Dusko Petrovic suggested it to someone there for the prosecutor. People were confused and said, what, out of the blue, something hit. Banged the door, no matter what party, Dusan Petrovic said. You know everything. It's a small territory, you know. The DS in this process of cohabitation, with a special figure of Venus, ends everything, Mr Stojkovic. Inform Mr. Kostunica, inform the government that you must take some urgent measures, that all those who need to apply the regulations will receive regulations. Maybe they don't know people, and there are regulations there and print to everyone, these people in courts, in sports organisations, in the media, give them the regulations that apply in our country, and tell them -- those are regulations that apply, not what the DS tells you. Let me remind you, you remember in 2003, when what happened, there was an SRS on all the pillars of shame. The epochal process of the century, as they say, of the century, all epochal, all of their witnesses associates. Take a look at those materials. I was looking at something, I was muttering something, so I came up with the material, so I found it. Mr. Vukic told you, he told you a speck of data, that Chummet depends on everything, and you don't know that Đura Mutavov was even more dependent on the New Sad. You don't know that it all depended on Nenad Chank in Novi Sad. You don't know, Mr. Minister, instead of that Ostojic going to jail, he went to the Republic Public Prosecutor. That Sonja Brkic, too. Where were you? You've got everything. All the data you have, call the police, she has the data, all the data to the data exists. Who set up the SUP chiefs? Criminals, mobsters, in line with the DS, with the League of Cankov. From this pay phone a month ago, I was talking about these 64 Countys, that Kasa is making preparations for the weapons, etc. A lot of things have been done to get in the way of the riots, so everyone can prove that the Serbian police are not capable, so Kasa and Canak need to have their own police. Now they're not hiding it. But I have one new piece of information, that 64 County is forbidden in Hungary, and we have legal action. Guys, keep the country safe. Let the people decide who they want in the election, but anyone in power must guard the state. Save the state, we don't have a spare, these others do. Canak's got a spare. And that Pitiæ has a spare. Look what they're doing. Paititch is able to sell mines. He says, since this investment is going to be two and a half billion dollars, he says -- give $250,000 to the District government, we'll have big expenses, we'll have to hold elections, so we can stay in power, so we can give you that investment. Mr. Novakovic, I think Kovin is in Vojvodina, and he's taking out some lignite. If you want to throw something away, make sure there's some truth to it. You know I never say anything by heart, but I always do. I'm reading a lot more than I'm looking at. I think Covin's territorially belongs to the AP Vojvodina. There's a lignite mine there, very high-quality. I know there are some of you who think, if the paperwork is burned, they're healed. They're not healed. There's a backup file. That's another question. Mr. Minister, go with the President of the Supreme Court to lead the order. Maybe for starters, it's best to multiply as many regulations and laws as possible, so you can share them with judges and prosecutors, and tell them they have to apply the laws. Of course, when I say that, and tell them, I don't think you're influencing them, but to free them from these NGOs. I know for a fact that you know about five judges who say I'd make a verdict, but I'm afraid they don't call me in the media of NGOs. Do you know how many such judges there are? Do you know how many such court presidents there are who say - you get rid of this job, finish it as soon as possible, so they don't call us? Do you know how many court presidents hold regular press conferences and give lectures to everyone and everyone? But they won't give a lecture on how to apply the law, the law, how to speed up some court proceedings. So, with all the fences, not to go into any specific objects, to comment on them, I don't want to comment on them, there's some kind of procedure. But preserve the entire legal procedure that's being conducted in court. I'm telling you, in these two democratic courts of the Democratic Party, I guess sometimes they'll be tried by them, though all that's being tried -- that you know it's theirs, Djura Mutavi, this and that. Secondly, an associate witness, Mr. Minister, I'm afraid of these witness associates. Here, in this case before the war crimes court, two witness associates gave contradictory statements, which wasn't enough for the president to even them out. And even one of them said publicly -- that you know, I have to say, about us, it's going to be a state account, it's going to be nothing, but that's why whoever's in The Hague is going to get hurt, I'm not going to tell you who it is. The trial is being packaged on the orders of those abroad, and over these "yellow" organisations and selected journalists. I don't want to put them all in the same basket, well done, there are positive ones, but they're exceptions, they're professionals, but they're exceptions. Most of you find your own brother, even though you're an only child. He's got to write all sorts of things for lunch, so when he's wrapped up in the coast, mentally flips it, mentally turns it over, they're done with the trial. Some NGOs use journalists to create public opinion to justify any stupidity of a judge to judge. We have NGOs running criminal and litigation procedures through the media. Why? Because the judges aren't protected. You have to protect the judge, give him the meaning, that he knows that the court will always protect him from attacks by journalists, NGOs and these bastards who hate this people and this country. You're protecting the judges who work by law. Ask in a legal procedure to resolve those who do not comply with the law and you will have the support of the SRS. And not just us, but all the citizens. We don't feel that process going on yet. That's the problem. That's a big problem. And courts protect the state. That's why we've chosen words and yesterday we've spoken to the judges, we've had a bit of a dispute. We've also tried to keep it in the chosen words, almost challenge any judge who's just being elected judge, encourage him, take the law, regulations and court practice into his hands and work. Maintain this right for him to be free to work, not to report to anyone from politics, newspapers, NGOs, etc. If we do that, we'll have, if we don't, we'll do this for free.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24031	Thank you. People's MP Petar Cvetkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24032	Very short, just one addition. I failed to challenge the election of President of the Municipal Court in Uzic, candidate Radulovic Ljubisa.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24033	Thank you, Mr. Cvetkovic. As a matter of fact, the People's MP, Alexander Vukic, appeared in the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24034	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I expect further from Minister Stojkovic to answer the questions I have asked. Who is in the Serbian judiciary, and not in the proceedings in which the power of the disabled is, who is and what is Natasa Kandic, whom and what is represented by Sam Nazaro? Who are you and what do they mean in this country? Who are they to say whether they are satisfied or not with a certain judicial verdict, or during the procedure, or not to know what? When are you going to break up with the media pressures of the war crimes prosecutor in our country, this Bruno Vekaric, let him do some of his work? Don't make a threat to everyone, unless a judge thinks he's gonna make a verdict the way he imagined it or someone else. Indeed, there are a huge number of honorable and honest judges, except for those who have put directly on the political line, but absolutely directly on the political line -- those from the Democratic Party. There's a city committee in Novi Sad Sonja Brkic, come on, what was it, the president of the Supreme Court, how do I know what it was? She did what she wanted and how she wanted. Come on, this second one, it's on the municipal board of the Democratic Party, it's still there. Are you afraid to say that? Are you afraid because B92 is going to get someone to tell you -- how dare you attack the fluids of democratic reform and other nonsense, as they say every day? Is that what you're afraid of, Mr. Minister? If you are afraid, tell those who laugh, and let them do so. There's been a gang gathering at the party level, with all Gjur Mutavi and Chumet, and bright and cloudy, they can do whatever they want in this country. Is that it? What do they say? Did you see what's true? What he said, Chume said, and then secretly, what the genius said. A terribly wise man, and as truthful as he is, is loved by his mother, and what is significant for our judiciary, solves the most important proceedings in the country. They invented witness associates and now criminals -- now I'm going to deal with another criminal, so I'm going to talk about what comes to mind; I'm not a criminal anymore, I'm talking about those other criminals, and they're a little bigger criminals than me, because I'm familiar with this and the one from that government, and he wasn't that good with them, so I don't mind, I'm not a criminal, I'm a good man, an honest citizen of this country, and these are criminals. What are we talking about here? I'm asking when that's gonna change. To answer that. Here, I'm a star, footballer Partizana is convicted by a judicial verdict, how do I know which court, I hope it's not criminal, I guess it's in criminal proceedings, because he must have jumped, wanted to play with someone, some goalie, it doesn't matter. He wanted to play ball. Those who lynch Dragan Milovanovic, are there any proceedings against them? Did you ask anyone if they were chasing those bandits for kicking a man while he was lying on the street, almost killed him? I saw him that night, he was totally blue. Since I know everyone else was scared, no one was allowed to come, so I came to see how blue he was, all over his body, his head, his body, whatever you want, everywhere, he barely survived. I'm asking, can you or can't, just tell me that, because if you can, then we know that we tell people who you can get to harass, do whatever you want. It can catch bandits in Surcin and beat people where they get there, and then they say, no, that's what some others are, they're bringing radicals there, so the newspaper announces, they're acting. Listen, they end up at the Emergency Center, and they say they're acting and nobody's doing anything. Is it for some special law if you're yellow, then for them special law, they're never guilty of anything. If you're against DS or I don't know who, then it's all your fault, and even if Sam Nazaro or Natasa Kandic tells you, then you're a dibidus failed. In this country, if anything against you says Natasa Kandic or Sam Nazaro, it's a complete disaster. You go out and tell me it's not like that. What does this Sam Nazaro have to do and say that he's satisfied with the verdict, and the dead are seriously announcing that statement to him, and to BK, and to B92, and to Pink and I look at them, dead seriously, he's satisfied with the verdict, really, go, he's satisfied with the verdict. Who are you to be satisfied with the verdict, what the hell are you? Are you satisfied with what they've decided to refuse to appeal to what they've been injecting him with the other day, if they've asked you anything? Did they ask you, Mr Stojkovic, about this murder in America what happened? They didn't ask you. I don't understand who you're asking here if he's satisfied with any judgment. What are you doing from this country? In this country, I know that there are a lot of brave people, who now speak every day -- arrest Mladic, arrest Karadzic, it will be Vuk Draskovic, this genius, as it is called, Mica Genije and I don't know who else, now they'll arrest him, don't God if they saw him somewhere, and if it was a little dark, about four or five afternoons, they wouldn't be able to sleep with fear for three days. But they're gonna get arrested on TV every day. See what we do, unlike the Croats, they're in advance guilty, they're guilty without anyone knowing what they're guilty of, but they're guilty. And who knew, wait, there is, if anything else, the presummation of innocence; there is no presummation of innocence, they are the greatest criminals. Look, you learned that at law school, but it's all changed, now there's some Sam Nazaro and Natasha Kandic, they say they're guilty. There's no presummation of innocence, what are you doing here, that's what people did. I came out to show you something else, to see how they arrest Karadzic and Mladic. I brought one piece of paper, says Serbia first. It's a business thing. Arangelovac - house for us. I thought, now they're going to warn me, I'll pay you, Mr. Simonovic, don't worry. Arangelovac - house for us, G17 plus. He says like this, our dear, it's been almost years since we got together, hung out and talked. In the meantime, a lot has happened, and the most important thing is that our municipal board fought for the MP, Mrs Miroslav Gusic. On the occasion of this significant event and the three-year anniversary since the founding of the G17 Plus party, the date is December 12th, 9.22pm. I proudly invite you to a meeting of all members with the following agenda, this is now important: 1. lay down the account of the president of the OO; 2. address of the MP Miroslava Gusic; 3. roasting (flesh and pigs, and there are also fish); 4. drink of choice and affinity; 5. music, song and game and 6. It's past the pig, lamb, fish and drinks of absoluteity. Here's the paper. I'm ready to deliver it to everyone at any time. I forgot to tell you that one guy almost choked on this third point, the bone got in his throat, but it's really true because the ambulance came to intervene, but it's all right now, it's all over happily ever after, thank God. Now let me tell you, these geniuses of yours who aren't allowed to come out here and say something, but Aligrudic apologizes, but they remember and become smart three hours after they send messages to Michael Kovac, a genius, a socio-political worker, listen, says a journalist, was an ambassador, Doss's ambassador, beat up money, all full of ships, three houses can make, where they arrive and how they arrive, you're all these great journalists, from this Diklic and him, who's got money in Paris, here he is now on this team, so no one can tell them anything, and all the journalists, what a black journalist. They're all socio-political workers. He says we're now reading G17 plus, SPO, radicals guilty of this and that. Why didn't you say that here while the debate was going on, but waited for it to end, and then you wrote the announcements. I'm finishing up, I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. This remark of mine is much more important than this roast, that they engage a little, because they will not catch Mladic with the lamb and the pig. I hope they never will, but they have to work a little more and work harder, obviously they care a lot more about pigs than about Mladic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24035	Here, on what grounds, ma'am? Ma'am, you just want to introduce yourself for a stenographer.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24036	I'm reporting for a statement by MP Vukic. I'm sorry that this is the first time I've stepped in for this pay phone, and I'm speaking to the chairman, Mr. Minister, and I'm sorry that some of my findings and attitudes are so extorted, I have to put it behind this speaker. Of course, people use everything, so no wonder we heard what we heard. It has nothing to do with me, it offends the good taste, of course, of the party I belong to. I think it's extremely malice and the way it happened, and the interpretation of that... The text is true, it's nothing controversial, but abuse...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24037	Please allow the speaker to say what he wants.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24038	All right, here's a certain group that's allowed. In the manner of people who are absolutely allowed for a pay phone, from bad acting to public animation, in a way that is primarily characterized by the terrestrial taste and habits that go towards recruiting those who might like it, but I am proud to belong to a party where such manners are not nurtured. Today is the three-year anniversary of the founding of the G17 Plus party and one, indeed a genius, and not the one that is magically promoted here by a certain MP, our great genius technically, of course, please don't disturb me as I speak, that's what Nikola Tesla was saying, I'm equally proud of my Serbian family and my Croatian country, and I say, I'm equally proud of this stranger's belonging and I'm equally proud of the city I come from, which I will absolutely fight for. The way you've done my promotion here is mostly degutant and the reason it happened was certainly much more noble than the one you did. Unfortunately, I objected to such a call, of course it wasn't the motivation, the motivation was the one I was talking about and why I went out for a pay phone. It means that the municipal board is meeting for the three-year anniversary of the party's establishment and for the address of the newly appointed MP. Ma'am, that may be funny to you, but of course I don't allow you to treat the G17 plus party in this way and in your manner of easy labeling and persuasive speech, which, of course, is for the audience who loves it, who certainly says with enthusiasm, sees how he told them, sees how he described them, can even be a triumphal speech. But for a good part of Serbia's citizens, I suppose there is an opportunity to see the difference between each other, to see the way we treat each other and the way we address each other. I wish when you go out for this pay phone you had a little more respect for your colleagues, for the ministers, not because of the government... You came to the Assembly yesterday, and we've been here for 15 years. I'm politely speaking to people I don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24039	Finish it, Mrs. Gusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24040	I see that everyone here gets me, I have no reason to justify or apologize to anyone. This act that has reached you, or memo, of course represents an internal invitation that is certainly at the limit of good taste. I agree with that. Anything else with an indignity I refuse, and I find it extremely untasteful to abuse and use it as a tool both for the party and for one municipal committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24041	Thank you, Mrs. Gusic. National MP Alexander Vucic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24042	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I apologize to you, I first congratulate you, for the first time you've come out for a pay phone and I want you to feel good in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to be successful in carrying out the duty of a MP. I have absolutely nothing personal against you, no matter how much you hate the SRS, and you show it at every step of the Arangelovac. That's your personal problem. It's not good to hate, it's not good to show that kind of emotion. She didn't say that. If you'd let me go. As far as this act is concerned, I finally didn't realize what the problem was. What did I purposely interpret? Besides having to tell you one thing, it's so much easier to catch pigs and lambs than Mladic, they can't run anywhere, they can't get away. And the ones you catch in the pools there can't run. (Branislav Stevanovic: It is not difficult to be nice. People seem to be getting away from you because you're very brave and strong, you're very brave, you're strong, you're powerful, so you want to catch people because they're defending their people, so they're guilty of everything. I've seen that I miss this genius and I realize that today I'm three years old they're celebrating and now I understand why everyone in Serbia is sad today. I thought it was because of last night's game and such a tragic tie, and that's because of the fact that there's a G17 plus for three years. Three years of torment for the Serbian people, three years of torment for the citizens of Serbia, three years of kidnapping where you get, what you get, that there is no institution in Serbia you don't manage and that there is nothing you don't do. This only speaks of what you do and what you discuss. Come on, we haven't seen each other in a while, so let's have some fun. Agenda - roasting. And he's got a drink, and he's got a choice and affinity. That's point 4. Music, song and game is fifth. What's different for you under 6 after lamb, pigs and drinks of choice and affinity, music of choice. What's so much more? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you can see, we in the SRS have people who can bring us these internal acts from your party. It somehow always comes to Serbian radicals. I don't know how, but he does. As for the city of Arangelovac, Radoslav Krabic, a member of the SRS, won there. That's what the citizens of Arangelovci think of that city and what they think of the SRS. What happened there after that? That you wanted in every way to prevent the SRS from ruling and ruling in every other way possible, just so that the radicals wouldn't rule. You can, but it is good for the citizens of Arangelovac to see it and wait for the next election and you will see an even more convincing victory of the SRS in Arangelovac and everywhere in Serbia. In three days' time, our election in Backo Palanca, there's nothing you haven't been doing there, from the pressure measurements to what? There's nothing you didn't share, from those bottle and glass mats, and this new coalition partner of yours, who lets you talk day and night on TV against Serbian radicals, Bogoljub Karic, he organizes the lottery where he shares the car, and then goes rallying. There goes the lottery, so the people will gather. (President: Time.) You see Mr. Zankov running this session in a democratic way...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24043	Tolerant, but I've got to get to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Wolf. Here you go. Finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24044	I love that you warned me, Mr. Zankov, that's what I congratulate you on and I'm glad you didn't warn Mrs. Gusic, always let her get right to say something over the line and over time. In the end, I just want to tell you, I had no intention of insulting you in any way, I just wanted to show the citizens of Serbia what your priorities were, and I really hope that there was a delicious roasting and pigs and lambs, the MPs expected to hear what it was like, and I think that today we in the country have a much more important problem than that, which is that the minister answers us what it is: Natasa Kandic and Sam Nazaro in Serbia's judicial system. I'm very interested in that. You might as well be President of the Supreme Court. What do they have to do with our justice system? That's a very important question. As I watch every day about Serbia's judiciary, Brankica Stankovic, Natasa Kandic and Sam Nazaro speak. If they're not satisfied, she's got the whole state. If they're not happy about some verdict and they're not happy, then we're going to have five insiders shows, then we're going to have 15 miracles that we have in different ways. There's going to be a lot of things going on, but it looks like we're not gonna get to justice. In any case, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank you for your attention, and I call upon Mr. Minister, I will remind him of this and in the afternoon, asking for an answer to tell me who these people are and what they represent, whether they are some untouchable or some presidents of the Supreme Court or the President of the President of the Constitutional Court, whether they are prosecutors to the Republic State Prosecutor or what these people are in this country. Whether it can be tried by law in this country, or whether it will measure political celery to be what it will be handled. I think it's high time we stopped it, went back to these serious things and answered these questions, because what's our key message, we can't have and that the law applies to one, so Djordje Pantic will go to jail or I don't know how to support his sentence, and those who are going to kick Dragoljub Milanovic on the street will be wonderful citizens. They were disappointed, censored by the media or I don't know what. For censored media, fines are paid in the elections. If it's against the law, he's got a court of law, not a head and body kick, and wherever they come up with it. I'm asking the minister what the prosecutor did about it. Will that be for us tomorrow? Will it happen to someone else tomorrow, that Tijanic, Mitrovica, Karic, and one of them, will the prosecution and courts then be silent or will make quick judgments or are they different citizens in this country? You can have some, but you can't have some. That's what this country needs to change and that's what Serbian citizens will no longer suffer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24045	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. Thank you for your warning. I try to keep the sessions as tolerated as possible in the Rules of Procedure, and I had in mind Mrs. Gusic's presentation that it was her first appearance for the assembly pay phone, so I was more tolerated. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Nadika Momirov.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24046	Wrongly interpreted. We at G17 plus don't hate SRS, it should be clear to you, as you hate G17 plus, and you pathologically hate G17 plus. But it doesn't matter who hates who. What matters here is that the SRS has been making it impossible for days to prevent parliament from working, and that, above all, leads to the fact that pensioners will not receive in time the debt that was made towards them, and that in the period when you were in power, that vulnerable categories of the population, such as the disabled, and also families with children, who are due to receive financial assistance, will not get the benefits. Because we here, instead of dealing with laws and agendas, that the sooner we declare laws that will help the most vulnerable categories of the population, we have a show, we have a show program, we have a circus. The SRS gets angry for two days, and then they have fun here, you have a fantastic time, you laugh, you throw, you curse, you do everything you're allowed to do. You continue to do whatever you want here in parliament, but to citizens, pensioners and others, disabled, it should be clear, both in Backo Palanca and in all other Serbian cities, that you are making it impossible for them to get what they deserve and what they have the right to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24047	National MP Alexander Vucic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24048	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I expected the words "Mice of genius" to be repeated. It's always a man who's willing to say three sentences and three sentences that we're crazy, psychopaths, guilty of war, guilty of inflation, guilty of everything his coalition partners are to blame, that is. Your coalition partners; so you can no longer attack coalition partners, because you have at least one more day to rule in any way. I'm worried about what you guys are always throwing out of the place, which is really the most embarrassing, I don't want to tell you the most rude, yes-- you all know that, who comes out for this pay phone, you made up here that someone's been cursing you. Who cursed you? How can you not be ashamed to make this up? I'd keep it quiet, you didn't say anything, you keep saying the same thing every day: "If our laws don't pass, then we'll have a problem, because the pensioners won't... ". Oh, come on! You took everything from them, you robbed the pensioners, you sicken the pensioners. You want to keep robbing them. We don't let you rob them anymore and that's why we're rebelling in the National Assembly. And that law is a robbery, like any other, so you're going to give families with children to 24 wars and I don't even know what you're going to give. You're not giving anything. Before that, you've all made yourself so that your leadership doesn't have any below 50m euros that it's heavy. That which they have in their straws, divide it to the people, and the people shall live well, honestly, and beautifully. You tell us stories and stories here. Someone would have thought someone had told you something. Listen, he says you're cursing from here. Oh, no, you don't. What are you making up? You're saying we're in the agenda. Here, we're doing the agenda, third point roasting. It says in the agenda, your agenda, G17 plus the agenda, so we're dealing with that agenda. We're in business, of course. We ask you a key question here: who are these Natasa Kandic, this Sam Nazaro, who are these people? Here, we're asking the minister, we're asking the President of the Supreme Court for an answer, who is this Brankica Stankovic? Who are these people who determine what our judicial system will be? I'm asking you, who is this special court, like this and like this? Imagine someone saying "His Majesty" to a saint named Bruno Vekaric. I attacked him on some TV, and right away, the journalist says, "Mr. Wolfie, you might be a national member of this? "I had no idea, but they've already prepared that as an answer. If you say anything, you're a national. There are no things you can't do. I'm asking you to answer those questions, and you'd be on the agenda, so it bothers you when I read the G17 plus agenda, so you say it's not delicious. I was expecting you to tell me whether it's delicious or not. Looks like the roasting's getting cold, so I don't know what the problem was, and it looks like it was unsalted. They've gone to get the Mica genius, now be careful, it's hard for us now that the genius is back.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24049	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. The next speaker from the list reported on this item of the agenda is MP Milan Stevovic, and let MP Sreto Peric be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24050	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing a proposal from the High Council of Justice for the selection of holders of judicial functions and for the presidents of certain courts in the Republic of Serbia. It is very difficult to talk about criteria for selecting judges and presidents. Whoever's talking about this can be right, and they can be wrong. However, we must take some basic starting points of view as well as how we talk about this subject and how we treat ourselves on the agenda from this pay phone. I think everything that's been said here today has been consistent with what we're discussing. We spoke officially yesterday, which of which the SRS candidate challenges, and this is an opportunity to say something to each other beyond that, to say what we think about the judiciary, to say what the situation is in the judiciary and to put out certain political views that we stand for. You've heard a lot from Mr. Vukic and Mr. Krasic. I would just go ahead and say that both these discussions, and the previous ones that were earlier when we chose judges and holders of judicial functions and the presidents of courts and public prosecutors, are only for one purpose, which is for the Serbian judiciary to be as high-quality as possible and to actually reach one degree of judicial independence. I must say that in the state of Serbia today we have judges who are afraid to read daily newspapers, that they will by no means find their name in that newspaper. Unfortunately, we have such a judiciary where judges today have to justify how evidence was carried out, what was the pre-criminal procedure, how certain judgments were made, and, ultimately, when the verdicts become judicial, and then they have to be justified. This is exactly what Mr. Vucic and Mr. Krasic's address was for that purpose - let's encourage these people, let's give them support, let's say that the state of Serbia is behind them, that they should conduct trials with honor and honesty, that what they were doing should be completed. The worst thing is if he kneels, the worst thing is if he gets halfway and gets under the influence of what we can say as mass media, as a newspaper, as journalists, without the intention of disdaining those honest and honest journalists and with no intention of hurting any medium. That's the situation. Not only did the media take the case against the courts, the prosecutors, the proceedings against the parties, the witnesses, the media are present in all of this. Let us once say on behalf of whom we judge, whether we still judge on behalf of the people or we judge on behalf of some political views, whether we judge on behalf of some media, whether we judge on behalf of some foreign organisations or some foreign attitudes. Let us be open once and let us say who judges and judges in this Serbia. I am one of those judges who has performed this function for ten years, and I believe I can speak rightly about what the judges in Serbia are like. There are extremely honorable and honest, proud, proud, and they must be known, but last time I praised people here who were proposed by the High Council of Justice, and only one challenged, I had anonymous phone calls, why you praised him. I don't want anyone to deny my constitutional right and take away from me the evil that I have praised someone here, because the one who works, and the one who schedules the trials at 7.05 and the one who judges after work, and the one who treads the snow, and the rain is on the ground, and his colleagues respect him, and the citizens, why should his name not be mentioned here and why in Serbia such people should not be raised to one lofty pedestal. When we talked about the medals, I didn't hear that it was proposed to distinguish someone as the holder of a judicial function. There are also those, and there are those negative examples, unfortunately, there are those judges against whom criminal proceedings are being conducted. I'm counting, I want to believe, and I'm convinced that it's just individuals and that most of us here want the real and honest judges, so let them judge us, and we can one day show up in front of them. I believe in an objective trial, I believe that the man I look into my eyes can be trusted to point out my destiny. So let's not deal with political trials and political processes, we are dealing with what we should do in Serbia, which is the moral cleansing of judicial judicial souls. We've polluted these ino-medias, quasimedias, quasiastic opinions, I don't know what to call them, their souls. People forgot that the afternoons were supposed to read the laws, to come up with judgments, to do that judicial work after 15 hours. No, they're watching various media, watching what this one says, what he says, how I'm going to judge, what happens to me tomorrow. It's their destiny. Many of them live, many families, many children school, and they tremble when they enter the courtroom. Instead of being the other way around, they should be feared by those who are guilty and should be trusted by those who are not guilty and who may be wrongly accused. So, all of this goes in favour of what Mr. Vukic and Mr. Krasic said, but in this country Serbia there are those worth talking about, but unfortunately there are also those that are not worth talking about. I'm convinced that all of us in the SRS talked about those first ones, and because of those others, we really don't care, and we won't talk. Yes, and the people who are with the first ones. And we've always been with the people and we'll be with our honest judges and prosecutors. Let's not make them a noose around their necks and organize these special dishes. Maybe they're just justified from some point of view, but from another human point of view they're never justified. Here's why. How does a judge who's been elected to a special court in relation to a colleague who hasn't been elected to a special court? Whether they can look themselves in the eye or this first one always says - I'm a little more valuable and that's why I'm the judge of a special court, and you're a little more unworthy, so you stayed in a regular court. We can't recruit judges like that, we can't recruit prosecutors like that. It's a duplication, it's an insertion of a bone that needs to be kidnapped and gnawed. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Whoever in Serbia can be a judge, we should ask ourselves, first we MPs, all holders of judicial functions, but also our professors at law schools. So, you should also look at who he was, and what his boy life was like, some youth should also take care of how they treated themselves in their studies, how they treated teachers, how they treated their people, and how they treated their country. These are all criteria, and I said at the beginning of the address that it's very difficult to talk about criteria and whoever says can be right and may be wrong. However, one is true, and that is that we here in these halls very often are not informed of who the judge is, because there may be some counterintelligence that we need to check. For these reasons, we often dispute and ask that what we have in our hands of evidence, the High Council of Justice verifies and, of course, the minister as an authorised promoter. There's nothing wrong with that. There's no harm in mentioning it, we're contesting the name of that judge and that judge. We do not dispute this judge because he is that name, but we dispute him because of some of the data we have received, his inadequacies in the work or inadequacy in their lives. I underline that a judge should have his moral integrity, he must have his own moral character, he must have great credibility in people, and he must have great knowledge. For these reasons, I must mention the fact that many political parties in the world are authorized to establish certain foundations and perhaps NGOs, but they are clear legal regulations that they must be financed and that political parties are completely independent of these established NGOs. With us in the state of Serbia, everything seems upside down and upside down. These NGOs financially support certain parties and these NGOs, through these and such parties' views, reach the High Council of Justice and infiltrate the judiciary, into the system I want to talk about with special respect. So, I'm afraid we don't give in to all this big mess and I appeal to the representatives of the High Council of Justice, to the minister, that the SRS is feeling a lot of concern at this point for the selection of new judges. Those who deserve to be judges and holders of judicial functions, the President of the Court, we need to understand that they are not easily and they are shivering right now, and I'm telling you that there is one problem that we don't know about these people maybe enough. That's why I once advocated that a moral character, a similarity to an expert, says something about the environment from which they originate. Whether it's local self-government or something else, I wouldn't talk about it here, but certainly that the attitude towards the judge, according to the president's candidate should have at least a small impact on the High Council of Justice and on the proposings. Therefore, somewhere in the middle is probably the most golden in all these criteria, and we need to make one flexible continent to reach one judge, one president, the one that needs Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24051	The word has the People's MP Sreto Peric, and let the MP Zivojin Stefanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24052	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Zankov, a distinguished colleague from the G17 Plus party said that those with pleasure, the G17 Plus party, are considering this topic today. I just want to say that the MPs of the SRS were pleased to consider all 200 proposed laws, which this high house adopted and, of course, this point of today's agenda -- the choice of holders of judicial functions. I will later say that in many things I will agree with a colleague who spoke about the situation in our judiciary. Madam President, there is no minister here, I want to tell you that you, along with us MPs, have a great task and a great obligation to correct the injustice that has been done especially since 2000 when the minister of justice was Mr Batic, who is now as if some top surgeon had been saying that the best operations are with a chain saw. Thus, he acted as a minister of justice, and even some judges and presidents of the courts were stifled and abused only because they were judged by applicable laws at the time. So, since 2000, along with such a minister of justice and with the Democratic Party, the judicial system in Serbia has experienced one solar system, one disaster, and I see that it is now a minister of justice and it seems to me that at a time when you have been elected president of the court have tried to make a certain contribution to resolve this problem, but it seems to me that you have given priority to that part of the problem that is even smaller, and it is easier to solve, and it is lagging behind when it comes to the Special Court, which is more said by Mr. Vukic and Mr. Krasic, and the War Crimes Court. You don't seem to have enough strength or courage, and I don't think you're brave enough to get a little more and more serious in that part of the problem. No such results so far. Although we are familiar with all your activities that you take and in solving these problems. On one occasion, both you and the minister said that MPs know more about the proposed candidates than the High Council of Justice knows. That makes sense to me, because as a MP, I'm talking to candidates for the presidents of the courts, for the judges, I'm talking to the presidents of the courts where they applied, with the president of the district court, with lawyers, with citizens of the environment from which the candidates were proposed, and of course, where it's physically possible for me to talk. It's perfectly logical that we have more information than you're likely to get from one source, whether someone's been challenged or just proposed as a good expert. A large part of the story highlighted by counterpart Milan Stevovic, of course, stands and we advocate to try to make the best, most worthy bearers of judicial functions, and I must say that it seems to me that the largest number is. You once stated that a criminal trial was initiated against 40 judicial officials or somewhere near that number. That's a lot when it comes to people. It means that it's the bearers of judicial functions and that it's a number of 40, so if it is much smaller, it's worrying, and that's what you're fighting against, and the National Assembly should fight. We must solve this problem together, we MPs, you as President of the Supreme Court, Minister of Justice. How can we solve this? We can solve it by supporting some and challenging others. There is a possibility that sometimes we can make a mistake, when the question of the SRS, on behalf of all those we have sinned against, is certainly a small mistake, I apologize. But surely we have made a great and huge contribution that the situation in the judiciary has been improved since 2004, thanks to the great activity of the SRS MPs. I have to say that even from where I come from, and that's the area of the County Court in Capco, the situation is slowly resolved. We only have one more, or two municipal courts in which the Presidents of the Court are not elected. Indeed, Dusan Petrovic, a great influence in the justice system, was a major influence, but now it seems that these problems are being resolved. I have to tell you that in Love and Krupanj, together with the presidents, they work two more judges and it's hard to be efficient, although I must commend the work of these courts, they are effective. The choice should be made so that when a judge passes through a city where he works as a judge, the citizens bow to him and pay attention to his work, and to the greatest extent we are trying to make the situation so. Then, the big problem is material nature in courts, so it happens that they can't pay for an expert. Col. Krstin said that he was not engaged in a justice system sufficient number of quality and professional skills, and now that you're in a position to hire him, the court is unable to pay him off in good time, then these problems arise when you re-engage. Whether this is what I'm talking about is an individual case or not, but surely it needs to be solved and taken seriously. Then, about the registration of those big vehicles. This is all a problem for small courts, such as the court in Love, the court in Krupanj, and they have to carry about 30% of cases to each other because of the formation of a criminal council. I think we should visit these small courts and point out to them some help and those people who have defined themselves professionally in this business and that the subpoena is their life-determination, they need help. Believe that the situation in some small courts is such that the President of the Court says - we now have a judicial intern, we can't wait for the time to expire to get the right to pass a judicial exam and that he could be appointed as a judge, because for many years a negative selection was conducted in the justice system and those who were the most qualified and good went either to a lawyerure or some other better paid jobs. Either simple honest and honest judges could not withstand the pressure of political parties to judge by their intent and according to what he told them at the time or the president of the municipality or some MP or perhaps the president of some political party. This should be taken away, such a right and such power, and the judges should be independent and judge by law. And the representatives of the SRS, who spoke to this agenda point, said, and I support that, that we will give maximum support to all the judges who are elected and that they should only be tried under the law, not to be the disciplinary committees of political parties, as in some cases so far. Of the 48 judicial officials proposed here, you saw that a total of 11. It does not mean that all these 11 will not be selected, but with special attention all what the representatives of the SRS have disputed, studied, presented some counterarguments. If you go out with such evidence and if you show that what we have presented and presented to the candidates, as holders of judicial functions, we are prepared to further gather some arguments and convince you that we were right.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24053	Mr. Christin, on what grounds? Replica, MP Marko Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24054	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank my colleague and I really think we're on the right track to open up some problems for you, but also to explain the problem of the expert. The problem is that since 2000, our Ministry of Justice has not issued solutions for people who have competed, or have not applied, but have submitted a request for enrolment. In larger courts, I believe that we have this problem with you, we have no quality skills and I'm afraid that some experts are under pressure from certain parties and that unfortunately someone else has become involved in these stories. It is very good that I was assured by the minister that this appointment will finally take place, that indeed as many people as possible could deal with this honorable activity and that our parties and courts would have the basis for their decisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24055	The word has a People's MP, Živojin Stefanovic, and let the People's MP, Verica Radeta, be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24056	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've been thinking about whether to report here for a word and speak, because speaking today about the judiciary and the way judges and bearers of these functions are elected, I think we're going back to the party state a lot more than what we've been honored to be a party state until 2000. Alci, given that counterpart Petar from the DSS has challenged Veselin Savic as a candidate for the President of the Trade Court in Leskovac, I will have to say something. That's exactly the challenge that makes me believe that the courts are sadpartial. Depends on which party here has a greater impact on the part of the judiciary, the MUP, the prosecution. I put them all in the same basket. Now you can't be the judge or the president of the court or the prosecutor or the head of the SUP, if you don't belong, still the hard, yellow, DS, because they have great influence, whether through the chairman of the High Council of Justice or some other DSS, or even the former Batic's party. In particular, in my area after 2000, they literally divided into three camps, depending on which court they belonged to, which they shared in Belgrade. Usually DS had municipal courts. Those who wanted to be judges of the municipal court or the president of the municipal courts were enrolling in the DS. Those who wanted to be judges for the violations went to Batic, all the judges for the violations entered his party. Those who pleaded to be high-ranking district court presidents went to the DSS, because according to that mild division, the DSS had an impact on their choice. That's exactly what we're having right now. We had a lot of reasons to challenge Ilic's election as President of the District Court in Leskovac, although Slavics were written about the court's urgency. Let us see how much judgment has fallen, which is the urgency and what those who have contact with that court say, and which is why the court has allowed great tolerance to the municipal court, where cases are not resolved for several years. I have nothing else to say, but in particular, for five full years, you will still not process the subject of a man who is your political opponent. The house is on fire, the DA's office is still an exec, and everyone knows who set the house on fire, and there's footage. According to the damages claim, according to the Law on Bonds, the state should compensate for the damage done at such demonstrations, the court is not acting because until yesterday, the President of the Court of Justice in Leskovac was a representative of the DS and said so publicly. But in that court there are still "yellows". The object will most likely be welcomed by God’s taking of the person who applied for it. There are birthday girls in the judiciary about these courts. At the request for the exemption of the President of the Municipal Court, who has recently been removed, or his term of office, he was elected second, the Grand President of the District Court says - there are no elements for the exemption, and the exemption exists because it is not being handled and because it is acting according to party membership. There's no more discrimination than there is now. If you belong to an option, where the president of one of the courts doesn't happen to be in favor of it. Mr. Veselin Savic, who was proposed, did not belong to any political party. When we were in power, there was another president, he couldn't get through. He's one of the best judges in the trade court. You didn't want Stanimir Markovic set up by the yellows. That's where we didn't want to get involved, he could have been, but he could've been this long before the court was without the President of the court because some in Belgrade resented the court. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know when they took a grudge? To all of you in the judiciary, which you supported or supported by the DS, when privatizing the big firm "Health". The company was literally robbed, the town of Leskovac was robbed, the environment robbed, because the commercial court did not want to enter the new value of the capital sought by the Privatisation Agency and because then the minister of business Vlahovic wanted to sell -- for three million and 200,000 euros, such a firm. The senior court has twice returned the case and has ordered that the value of the "Health" capital be changed down. The trade court did not act, according to the judge did not act, so when the "yellows" came they replaced both, so the case was given to the Belgrade High Court. The Supreme Court decided on the value of the pharmaceutical industry's capital "Health". Since then, these judges, who have been fair and correct, have had problems with the High Council of Justice, with the ministries. No one can be, but give you from Belgrade who will be the President of the Trade Court in Leskovac. We believe that Veselin Savic is not a member of any political party, nor was he ours when we were in power. He was set up here to be a member of JUL, and he wasn't, even if he was- JUL was a much better party than many of the current parties in power, but man had nothing to do with it. He's a respected judge, he's the oldest, I think, half-years and a half of an internship, in a trade court. I believe he deserves to be elected to this post, regardless of being challenged by a representative of the Democratic Party. If that's a condition, then clearly say, let's go and ask people of quality to join one of these three parties, I said: DSS, DSS or DHSS, then they'll definitely be elected. Why? If you respected us that at the time of the Socialists they were party courts and party judges, now they are party courts. Under the circumstances, I chaired this assembly's Justice Committee for a year, and I know that no one has been set up for that year on the party line. It's another thing that the New Democracy guy told some stories in the media that it was. Now that's exactly it. Now that's exactly how it's done. Many down our small towns, as you call them - provinces, ask which party is influential in the judiciary to join there, that we may be something or be elected even as a judge. If the court dares not to settle cases for five and six years, for those involved in these disputes, who can follow this speaker and some other speakers to attack, what do other parties do? No wonder you've got 25-year-old cases in the woodwork court. When it comes to execution, in the Supreme Court, proceedings are annulled and retriald. What do you need people for? One, who first launched the civil lawsuit, died. I believe that the choice of judges is not good, that the party that has more influence in the bar, or at the top of the government, is lobbying on the ground and such judges are being appointed, only by such judges. I think the time has come to break with this practice if the institution of justice wants to protect itself, to restore trust in it again. This is how we brought the institution of justice, at least as far as my end is concerned, to the level at which the public media now represents us, as Parliament, and at the level at which citizens trust the media. It's a very low level, with which the judiciary starts. If this keeps anyone coming out for this pay phone, challenge someone, no arguments, because he doesn't like it, or the one where he's elected -- I support the SPS, the DSS, they'll keep me up there in the Assembly, and I can do what I want to do, so that I don't mind them, and that I'll make illegal judgments, which I'll damage the state, which I'll do to the participants in the disputes, he doesn't care, because it's important for him to stay in these functions. I ask my fellow MPs, and I propose, when it comes to the Trade Court in Leskovac, that we choose Veselin Savic. I think a man deserves it with his work, honesty and honesty, and he's shown it in a series of years, how many judges he's been. I'm telling you, he wasn't a member of any party. Because when he ran for president of Leskovac Municipality's Executive Council, I beat him because I was supported by the Union of Communists. So he wasn't back then. That is why I believe that the reference because it is a member of a party cannot be, and if that is even so, then you must take all the presidents of all the courts in Serbia down.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24057	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24058	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the third or fourth time this year that we have on the agenda a proposal from the High Council of Justice to elect judges and presidents. This can certainly be seen as a good attempt by the Registrar and the President of the Supreme Court, which is obviously their intention to bring the situation in this area into order and fix it. On the other hand, it also says that the situation in the judiciary is not good. It was mostly heard from the debates of the MPs today, and it is heard every time we talk about it. Today something, I'd say, even worries me. Every time we talked about this point and these points of the agenda, all MPs participated in the work, or all MP groups had a list of speakers who were registered to speak on this topic. Today only the SRS is doing it and a colleague from the SPS just spoke. It concerns me because I have the impression that the other MPs have somehow become oversold or have no interest anymore, I guess they're tired of trying to help the Serbian Minister and Government on the one hand, and we're helping the President of the Supreme Court on the other hand with our discussions because we Serbian radicals think that we, Mrs Vido and Mr Stojkovic, are helping us in this way, and that is our intention. So maybe the topic is kind of expanded. Simply, it is connected and cannot be separately talked about by an individual court and an individual judge without speaking at all about a problem that is evident in the area of justice today in Serbia. At first, I want to emphasise something that I do every time, which is that we in the SRS are convinced that there are many more judges and many more prosecutors in Serbia today who are doing their job professionally, honorably and in accordance with the law. We keep stressing, and we want someone to deal with the smaller numbers that aren't in one real way. I repeat it every time, and now I'm going to say it, we can choose the best judges, bring as many new judges as you want, as long as, ladies and gentlemen, and Mrs. Shkero and Mr. Minister, we can't resolve the situation with those who cause problems in courts, until we clear up with what little, but I'm really convinced few thieves and criminals in courts and prosecutors, we can't have a better situation in this area. We can't, because you all know well, now I'm not saying anything unknown and nothing heard for the first time, I'm not revealing hot water, but all Serbian citizens, all the MPs and all the officials who do this work in one way or another, that in every court or in large numbers there are one or two judges who are burning and burning. They don't have to be presidents, because they're often not and thank God they're not, but they're the ones that depend on them, who in any way try to influence their colleagues in making judgments. They're the ones who have their own dealings with lawyers, they're the ones who, in every town, know which bar, meet with a certain lawyer, and that's where the deals are arranged, and then, of course, these jobs end up with a lot of money. So it happens that someone who belongs to that small group of wicked judges, tries his colleague who honors his job, and already takes the money in advance, so he can't convince this one to pass the verdict that was bought, and not according to the law, and then there's threats, blackmail, which he doesn't have, so eventually he has to pay back the money. It would be good for them to be more, that what we are doing here, that we speak openly of this and such problems, among other things, and that we encourage these honorable and honest judges and prosecutors in Serbia, that they can freely do their job, that they are not afraid of anyone, that they judge by law, that they apply the law equally to everyone. To make sure that behind them, there is also the President of the Supreme Court, and the Minister of Justice, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the National Assembly as the most legislative body. This is one of the problems where we should have the same attitude, that we shouldn't react in the way that today tried to react from some parliamentary groups, because those in the SRS want to be the smartest, they always want to talk about everything. Of course we will, we are the opposition party and for that reason we want to talk about everything. But believe me, remember those other times when we were in power one short time, when we participated in power, how the judges were then elected and how we tried and tried not to have party membership in courts as the first and basic reason for someone to be elected judge. What's the further problem that's being seen here? Yesterday when you came into this room, we were talking about a mortgage bill. At the moment you entered the O.R., Minister Parivodic told this speaker that this new law provides for a bookmaking, the registration of a mortgage outside of book ownership. We reacted from the bench because we had previously discussed with him that it was not possible and you, both of you, acted like this if it wasn't possible. Why did I mention this? Because the Serbian government, at least when it comes to the judiciary, must have reconciled, and everyone in Serbia knows that the government functions as a feed of certain ministers, depends on which party, but it is impossible at least in this area, since the judicial system is the basis, a state that does not have that strongest pillar, cannot expect the functioning of the state in any other segment. I guess everyone in this country cares that we have this judicial system, that we finally put it on healthy feet, sound bases, and only then can we expect the formation of a real rule of law. What we're saying now is that we have a legal state, my people, we don't. We don't have a legal state, we don't have legal certainty, we still have what I've been saying, cafes on the corner of every court where certain judges meet with certain lawyers, but until we root it out, we can hardly expect progress and a real rule of law. Why did I mention Minister Parivodic, the mortgage law and this accidental encounter of yours here? Because he is not the only minister who thus influences judges, of course, I know that judges should respect the principle that judges do not judge the law, but by law, but indeed many judges with a lot of standing, professional people, will wonder how to register a mortgage on off-book property. It is amazing to me, Minister Stojkovic, that this government proposal could have reached the National Assembly. I do not believe that you and other colleagues are lawyers, though, and Parivodić is a lawyer, that you have not reacted and that you have not tried to convince your colleague that this is not possible. As I can't understand, for a year and more than a year you've stood up here with us, we've been talking about having to bring a special judicial budget, and thus eliminating the influence of the executive authority on the judicial branch of power, and you've every time been publicly, which, from the bench, supported, and I don't know what happened, whether this Mladjan Dinkic is really the most powerful character in Serbia that you haven't managed to fight for a special budget, or for a judicial budget, which would be managed in a way that would regulate it and never happen again what happened to Mladjan Dinkic at a press conference to comment on an unfair, first-degree verdict, to present his view of a particular judge and a particular court. These are the experiences that we have had with Vladan Batic in our time and that we have always hit the hardest, because we now think and we will always think, and it is certain that you must agree that the first-degree verdict, especially the representatives of the executive government, must not comment, because any such comment means an indirect impact on that judge, on this court-law. Imagine, when Mladjan Dinkic appeared commenting on an unfair, or first-degree verdict, in the way he did, because he did not hide it, he threatened everyone, in time he said he would introduce a forced administration to the Assembly, because he would not pay the people's MPs. He says here, when he was talking about the budget, among other things, I asked him why we don't have a judicial budget set aside, so that he wouldn't manage that money, but to be someone who really needs to be and to eliminate the influence of the executive power on the judicial branch of power, of course, he came out here and told us that the number of judges should be reduced. If you want bigger salaries in the judiciary, Madam President of the Supreme Court, Dinkic told you from here that you must reduce the number of employees, and until you do so there are no higher salaries. What does that mean? Does this mean that in this way it will affect certain presidents of the courts, who will appear with a request to change the systemisation, that the number or judges or employees of the judiciary or professional associates, that there with a small number of arrangements, will be reduced to the expense of quality, in order to have a slightly higher salary, given that inflation threatens 20% this year, and next year, who knows how much. Of course, all this affects that the wages in the courts are now disastrously low. What used to be, I will remind you when Batic promised that judges would have a salary of 1,000 marks at the time, so by the time the first payment of those 1,000 marks was already 700 or 800 marks at the time. So today it's completely demeaned. We, of course, know that the salaries in the judiciary are small, not just the salaries of judges. Of course the judges should have the highest salary. You have to take care of every employee and those people at the courthouse. At the time you weren't, I was talking about the budget, and now I'm going to draw attention to you, fully convinced that you share my opinion, if those employees in the judiciary had bigger salaries, if they knew that those fees they charge go to that judicial budget that they're going to pay, they'd certainly have more bills and they wouldn't care like now if they were going to convince the party to pay the tax immediately, because the parties know that the court has to run the procedure even though they don't pay taxes, and then the fees are forced or conditioned by writing the sentence by paying the tax. You know exactly what he's got in practice. You have cases that these people, irritated by their small salaries, I'd say to the mercenaries, tell this stranger who brings some submission, yes, the tax is 50,000, but you don't care, don't pay, this has to go anyway. Even if the man may have been willing to pay, they literally urge, which, they say, we give money to Mladjan Dinkic when we don't get paid for it. I'm telling you all of this to have, I suppose, that you, and I said in the beginning, share this opinion of me, the arguments for this sort of thing, and that this is what you managed to do in the budget, believe that in that part you would have the support of the SRS. What are the further problems in the judiciary? The problem of law enforcement in the part of criminal policy. As a lawyer, I have always argued, and I have argued, regardless of this modernisation of our regulations, by harmonising with EU regulations etc., I have nothing against in principle, but we are talking about each law individually. Now I speak in general. I've always claimed that we have enough good laws, but that we have a problem in law enforcement. In determining the penalty when we have a range and some tariffs there and it depends on whether someone gets the smallest or the biggest punishment for an identical, say, felony. So again the problem in people, again the problem that we all have to deal with and that we all have to solve, not in a way that now you radicals are always saying something besides others, but that you really take this as well-meaning. We challenged one judge from one court last time, he was a candidate for president. Before the vote, this man called me, I don't know how he got to my cell phone, so he wrote me a letter, so he said that because I was talking about him about this pay phone, I don't know, his family and him in that small town, I put him in an awkward situation, that only we radicals, he knows, we're talking because we're being set up, and it's not true. I don't want to mention him today, he hasn't been elected, thank God, for the president of that court. In the day of the vote, all the MPs who voted voted voted not to have that man elected president of the court. What was I going to say to this? That man heard here that I was speaking on behalf of a group of MPs. Prior to that, at least he claimed, he spoke to representatives of all other parliamentary groups and everyone claimed that they would vote for his election, and that radicals were banging something and it had nothing to do with the real situation, because he doesn't know who at the end of the push of this button, but he could still see that no one voted for him. One colleague here said that, in all events, although I do not see this as any event, but we work here as MPs, he says, in all events we participate in the heart. We Serbian radicals are doing this job with reason, and that's why I mentioned that judge who called me. On the basis of reason, based on the facts, we are also talking about this problem based on evidence, and every law when we have a discussion with ministers about certain laws. So you don't need a heart here. Of course, we have to be human always and in every place, but not in the choice of judges. If anyone deserves to be a judge, then they'll have our support in every way. If we have the knowledge that someone can't be a judge, then we're going to go out and say it, and we don't ask how much it costs, we don't ask if anyone's going to call us, threaten us, and warn us, and distract us, they can do whatever they want. He who is a criminal, and if the Serbian radicals have that information, he will always be called a criminal. They talked here to my colleagues about the problems that exist now in the judiciary and in the prosecution and in the courts, and they talked about some concrete things. Maybe I'll do some of that again, try to say something that's not said. I'll mention criminal charges, say, against Dinkic already mentioned more of my colleagues here, and I'm not saying it again, although it's criminal charges with this kind of, believe me, a fat piece of evidence paper. The president's here. I'm glad. So, that criminal record stands and she doesn't know her fate. The criminal charges filed by Mr. Vukic against Nenad Bogdanovic were dismissed. Evidence like this. Then someone to convince me and convince us that there is no party influence in the courts. Unfortunately, there is. In the D.A.'s office. This time in the prosecution, yes, but Mrs Petrovic is unfortunately also in courts, and this has these relics, those remains of Bosko Ristic from the time he was chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee. Last night, on a TV show, I heard that Boris Tadic is the most honest politician, and every time I hear that story, you'll hear what's going on here. He's the most honest politician, because he's the only one who said in the middle of his campaign that it's true that Neda Arneric wasn't in the O.R. when it was voted governor of the National Bank, that she really was in Bodrum and that someone forged her vote here. He is fair now and he will not do anything in his party, he is waiting for the problem to be solved by the judiciary, and in the judiciary he has set up someone to keep it in a drawer, and in the meantime one of the main actors of the Bodrum affair, Pajtic and this Radosavljevic, are in high positions, both state and party. It is the honesty of Boris Tadic, who shows through the work of the judicial authorities, where he and his party have influence, and unfortunately almost every court in Serbia still has influence. Vladan Batic still has influence. Still your debt, ministers, according to those judges from the law enforcement, I will remind you each time, which Vladan Batic left out of work because they were judging by what he called "the Wolf's Information Act". For the sake of the public, I remind you, I've spoken to each of these judges. He called them all, in the cabinet where you are now, they were outside, all the employees who are still there. The conversation with Batic lasted 30 seconds: "Good afternoon, do you accept to join the DHSS, to stay in the body for violations, or will you be lustrated because you have applied Vucic's law? "Thank God, they've had enough, they've sacrificed their jobs, but they've preserved the face and honor of the profession, but you've sinned not to return it all. The Supreme Court's decision has brought them back to work, but many of them are still at the level of associates, not set up as judges, but I hope it will be corrected when we're here at the opportunity for judges from the law enforcement authority to translate, conditionally speaking, into judges, because they are judges to me today. I commended the law of my time, which suggested that the authorities for the violations be transformed into judges. This is where my colleagues from the SRS talked a lot about special courts, and organized crime, and war crimes. The position of the SRS on this matter is clear. Our sighting, the program commitment to the organisation of courts, is completely different from what we have in place today. We'll never stand up for any special courts. We repeat today, everyone said it, so I'll repeat, I don't think Judge Maja Kovacevic of the Special Court is smarter than Judge Snezana Nastic of the Fourth Court. I just happen to remember the name of each other. I don't want to say anything about either of them, but I don't think this one's smarter, that it's a better judge and that it's a better judge because it's in the Special Court, the question is how did it get to the Special Court, than what's left of it, for example. in the Fourth Court. The only difference is this one in a special court has three times the salary. When it was actual, and then we talked about it, and I don't want to say it again, but we like to remind ourselves, that we know what we're saying then, that we're saying it now. When Minister Stojkovic was elected minister and when he first presented his position on special courts at the conference, and he was never allowed to repeat it again, because then coalition partners, especially then DS, until it knew how the cohabitation would work, jumped, as if Minister Stojkovic had committed a coup because he said he would advocate the abolition of these courts. It would have been good if you'd kept doing it and done it. That would certainly be positive for your ministerial career, Mr. Minister. These days are over, although I was saying that I was an absolute opponent and that we are absolutely opposed to commenting on first degree judgments, but I have to mention this verdict for that staged alleged crime on Ovcara. I mention it in the context of Bruno Vekaric's statement, he is a spokesman for the Special Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes. It is truly a wonder why someone no longer remembers that this man, who was normally Batić's right-hand man, so when the elections were called, you certainly know it, but more because of the public to remind me, then Batic and his faithful servants moved faster to those newly formed jobs, removed them from the ministry, because he knew who would not come to the Ministry, knew that he would not again, that he had no chance, and then Bruno Vekaric placed for the spokesman of the Special Prosecutor's Office, who had his shoulder next to his shoulder with Natasha Kandic, apparently all the Serbian public, played the proxies of the damaged and he said, "maltene threatens with the finger, as Krasic, the ice stand said, simply that when he saw him on the screen, he said: "It is not all done yet, especially in relation to these two who were released and in relation to those who did not get the maximum penalties". That's inadmissible. The spokesman, if he should already exist, although we don't think he should exist, which means the spokesman at all, would be better set up another prosecutor and get that salary than he's playing in there a spokesman and walking around the white world to collect information to get them into the Special Prosecutor's Office, to establish the criteria under which the Special Prosecutor's Office should operate and later the Special Court. Everyone in Serbia knows that. You're really expected to react when such things happen. Mrs. Petrovic, you have made the announcement in good time, and I will not do much to remind you, just to remind you, when you referred to the work of the MPs in the wood and stone, as we do God, because we do not accept all the suggestions of the VSP. That's what we've been talking about and I don't want to go back to it, but I expect you to come forward as President of the Supreme Court when you hear and see things like this. I know it's in the prosecutor's jurisdiction, but you and the prosecutor and the minister are members and the High Council of Justice, and you have both the possibility and the authority to react, because it is really inadmissible for the layman to comment in this way on the alleged crime in Ovcara, let alone the official Bruno Vekaric. Then here we wonder who Sam Nazaro, Natasa Kandic, who is otherwise head of the Albanian drug mafia, why not join Bruno Vekaric, who is also from that mile, who is also in the group of those so-called. Human rights defenders, and these human rights defenders are defenders of all and everyone's rights except for the rights of Serbian citizens, except for the rights of Serbs. Unfortunately, you can understand however you want this kind of discussion, and this part of my and the discussion of my colleagues, but it has to be said, because it really is. Bruno Vekaric cannot represent families who came from Vukovar, whose family members allegedly were killed in Ovcara. Coli Krasic said the final words of certain lawyers were not commented in the media, and if they were, it would be said in public that the verdicts were made for Ovcara on the basis of statements by the two protected witnesses. Remember, you were reading, I guess, and that's a newer history, that with the help of two witnesses after World War II, people were getting their heads off. Fortunately today, at least we don't have a death sentence, and if we had those two protected witnesses, they'd probably leave these people headless. Batic wanted to impose a death penalty, to remind the public, at the time of the "Sabbe" action, asked for 15 minutes to introduce the death penalty, I guess, that it kills, which by his criteria, democratic so-called democratically. It's not for life, and it can really be funny, but it's terrible, it's terrible that these things happen and all these things happen in Serbia and Serbia's judiciary. We have had almost one emergency and extraordinary session of the Assembly here, when we have released the immunity of some judicial officers for certain criminal charges, and of course we will always do so when we have evidence of it, because we think that this way of this Parliament is also to affect the improvement of the situation in the judiciary, but I have heard that, Minister, at one conference, you said that more than 50 judges are being led by certain criminal proceedings. I haven't heard, none of the journalists asked you that, whether these judges, of course, expect you to answer, continue to work, how many criminal charges have been made, are we at any risk if they are doing their job, and it is certain that we will soon release them from immunity so that they may be able to respond to the crime and whether something concrete has happened. It can affect judicial authorities to speed up these procedures. Because it would be terrible if someone were doing the judge's job and, after six, seven, eight, or nine months, they found that he was founded on suspicion all along. Since all the time we had planned for us from the SRS, in one sentence just to get back, to recap how we think we should solve the problems in the judiciary, and if you do so, you will have the support of the SRS. So, in addition to all these new proposals, but we expect, I've said it several times, we expect that for each proposal we have a little more detailed explanation, and besides, we insist that you start with the resolution of judges who are not worthy of wearing such responsible judicial functions. Then we'll have a better situation in the judiciary, then we'll be able to say that we have a legal state and you'll always have the support of the SRS in such a business.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24059	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. As you can see, it's going to be 36 minutes. Since the parliamentary group is no longer registered for the word, I ask if they want the President's word, or the authorised representatives? No, I don't. ) Before I conclude a single search on the motions for decisions, do the proposing representatives want to give the final statement? First Minister Stojkovic, first reported and then the President of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24060	I haven't called as a proposing representative, and there's a colleague, Petrovic-Skero, who's going to say something. I only called about a few things where I was called directly. Regarding commenting on the verdicts, as Minister and as a lawyer, I know that there is never a single procedure that is under way and that, if you know, I don't. If others do and comment, we can talk about it somewhere else, and I don't think that's right, nor should it be commented, all the way to a legally completed procedure shouldn't. As for the position of NGOs, it is a political system that is being created in this congregation. The laws, the powers, and I think that could be discussed here, but don't ask the Minister of Justice to solve what he can't. As the minister of justice has only the right to administrative oversight, and I must publicly say here, the third independent branch of the government is the courts. So, if there are any objections, let us refer them to the courts, but don't ask me to break the Constitution and the law, so let me do something to the third branch of an independent government, which would be wrong. It was said here that I said something, and I didn't have the courage. The previous speaker said, I'll repeat to remind others what we said. That's what I said at the first press conference, and I repeated it twice in the Assembly, so let me remind you. The question was whether or not I would abolish a special court, which I answered, laughing, that I couldn't lift something that didn't exist. My second explanation was, on behalf of special prosecutors, or prosecutors for the fight against the mob, for example. in Italy, but that there are no special courts and that I'm surprised at my fellow judges when they're making a mockery of the judiciary and they don't distinguish a special court from a building that has special protection, so they say it's a constitutional court. It's just a building that has better protection than others so it can judge objects that are more at risk. That's what I'm experiencing two or three days ago, to hear a man say he saw a Roman court building, and one says a special court. There are no special courts and I now claim there are no special courts in the world. There are buildings that have special security to prosecute such dangerous objects, but there are no special courts. It was my explanation, and I now claim as a lawyer that there are special prosecutors or a prosecutor for the fight against the mafia, such as in Italy, which has broad powers, is chosen by much stricter criteria than a minority president of the state, has to be extremely honorable, honest, brave and professional, because it has great powers, it is followed by certain units, it has a network across the country and it works properly for other courts to give valid evidence that it judges the mafia or other types of crime, which is really complex and dangerous. That's what I've been saying, and that's what I'm saying. So don't let me change anything in my performance, because as a lawyer, I'll never change my mind where I know I'm absolutely right. As far as criminal proceedings are concerned, I said there were about 40 procedures, it was 2003, 2004 and 2005. One part's over, some of them's been dropped, some cases are being conducted, some people are being convicted, there's already five or six convictions, somewhere they're being released, and somewhere else they're going. A small misunderstanding was made by a report issued by the Supreme Court, he said he had 27 proceedings, and he meant judges. He forgot the prosecutors, he forgot the lawyers, who are involved in the proceedings, and it is directly about corruption in the judicial process. That's what I'm talking about, and you've had a smaller number here because you've been deciding to take off your immunity due to detention. There's a number of items being conducted, and there's no arrest. So it didn't even come to you to take off your immunity. I agree that you're really doing the right thing, where there are places to remove immunity, you're giving the opportunity to run it, but not every one of these items was tied to custody. You also have one good number of cases now, a violation of the law by the judge or abuse of the official position of the president, but the procedure goes normally without detention, so it doesn't come to you. That's why there's been a little misunderstanding. That's what I was going to say, and only in the end to ask, listening to everything you said, let's choose really good, professional and valid people, to get the judiciary on its feet once and for all as citizens to have that third pillar of power as it should be to protect the interests of society, but to God, both individuals and their rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24061	He will now have the floor of the motion speaker, Supreme Court President Vida Petrovic-Škero, and of course the stronger the three independent branches of government, the weaker this fourth, dependent advisory. Here you go, Mrs. Shkero.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24062	In view of the discussion of the MPs so far, which I want, first of all, to say hello, I want to say that this time I will be in a position to have a few direct answers, given the way we discuss it. I personally consider it a quality, which means that what we have said from the High Council of Justice and what the judiciary thinks, of course, every MP has the right to believe that someone is wrong and that he can vote not to be elected as judge, but the institution of the judiciary should be protected and not allow this assembly speaker and this assembly to become a media way of destroying or attacking or overly commending certain candidates. In view of that, I have only one thing to say, because I was trying to check some of the allegations from yesterday to this day for my colleague Pajtic Mirjana, who is a candidate for the president of the Vladimirci court, for whom there was an observation that she was not mentioned in the decision, and then corrected that she did not state in her application, or a proposal to be President of the Court, that she was formerly President of the Court. This is also discussed in the proposal, the claim that it was the President of the Court, and in its proposal, it was precisely indicated in which period it was carrying out the work of the V.D. and in what period of the President of the Court. So, just that, there's obviously been some data that we've been thinking about. I would like to say something this time, given that it is before the Assembly again a duty to elect the president of the courts and the holders of judicial functions, the other judges. I'm always talking about judges, and for these reasons, I'm the chairman of the Vice-President's Board of Judges and Presidents, not the D.A.'s office, and I have to say that whenever the prosecutors are elected in such a way that I get a call from today to tomorrow without material, I don't attend such a council, because simply no matter what fellow prosecutors, some of whom I know, some I don't know, I can't come to the meeting of that part of the council. So I wouldn't want to talk about it here. I would like to make my point, or to give some of my views and data on the work of the judiciary. We are in the constant process of reforming the judiciary and it is necessary to do so in the work of the judiciary. We all know that. Of course, the first move is to amend the law, make new laws, and they are largely passed. We can have our subjective, objective opinion, we have to say that the work of the Assembly was very large, that a very large number of laws were passed and that they were mostly the ones with positive changes. What is a problem for the judiciary and what we need to think about, is the question of the amount of law, the way they are applied and the way the court can organise that amount of law can be applied in a quality way. The next thing I want to point out in particular is the question: If the Assembly adopts the law, in what time period will it enter into force. Question vacatio legions. If, on 1 January, several laws will enter into force which significantly alter the way the judicial system works, or the judicial system, but this applies to the judicial system, as it will also refer to changes in the work of the prosecution, by having a month and a half of a day to specialise the judges, since it is a completely new way of trial, new networks. If the law enters into force on 1 January, and the budget does not provide for the means to transfer the overall jurisdiction of juvenile delinquency to the district courts, that we do not have in the budget the means to ensure the costs of the handling of these proceedings, because the arrival from smaller cities to larger centres will certainly be very expensive, which will eventually have to be regressed, and which will not be in the budget of the courts, this means that it will not work decisively, and I fear that by the end of next year there will be a problem again in the efficiency of the work of the courts, not by its fault. Furthermore, such transitional provisions do not worry that conditions have not yet been created for the creation of a new network of courts, in addition to the fact that in this year there has been an increased inflow of one year from 11,000 cases in the Supreme Court in administrative matter, for which we do not have space, when the judicial and certainly the very important chamber that is related to the functioning of the courts, the working people, we do not have dactylographs, we do not have an office, because you know that the Supreme Court has no building. We will now be in a situation that next year, in addition to a very large number of cases that we have in criminal matter, which no longer enables the effective work of the Supreme Court to be done, so his authority is being drawn up, because he acts in a huge number of cases as second-degrees, we get the full jurisdiction of the second-degree court in juvenile delinquency, cyber crime and a series of other obligations that the Supreme Court has to take from January 1st in connection with these two laws and other laws. What about efficiency, what about space, what about the budget for dactylographs, for officials, for the accommodation of these objects? Are we going to get 11,000 new cases, which are already in court and standing on the floor, more new cases that I don't know where we're going to put. How do we judge when the Supreme Court doesn't have a courtroom? So can we talk efficiency? Are we going to move jurisdiction suddenly on January 1st and not a network of district appeals courts, then come into a situation where there are no more three judges in the cabinet at the Court of Justice, but four or five, because many responsibilities have been relocated since January 1st to them and will that mean that we will have even more inefficient work? How will this be viewed and whether MPs in the next proposal of candidates will say - that the President of the Court was not of quality because he did not allow himself to be tried effectively, because he is sitting by four in the courtroom, so the judge is on the fourth day, but where to judge and is it possible that the judiciary will be able to do so all by itself? It's not possible. I pray that always, when the law is passed, the Members of Parliament think deeply about how much a "vacated legion" it takes to prepare the conditions for the application of the law, because to pass a quality law does not mean to bring its quality of application. If we don't have the conditions to apply, we're going to have the opposite effect and we're going to have the next year, and for the next two or three years, we're going to be in a situation where the judiciary won't be effective enough. I would also like to refer to those comments concerning the protection of the judge, i.e. the functioning of all those accompanying systems that monitor the work of the judicial system. I completely agree that the judicial system is now becoming the target of the talks in an inadequate way for everyone and everyone. I'd like to add something else. It's interesting that we've heard all the discussions, on this side and on the other side, attacking each other. We have not heard anything, which I have noticed that almost no one in this country has responded, that we have faced on the media that one of the journalists says he sees a resolution of relations in Serbia, and especially the judicial ones, by repeatedly repeating -- it is necessary to start killing two judges. The invitation to murder, the call to the lynch, and the judge doing specific types of work, certainly represents something that we must discuss and what we must all talk about and react to. We had such a reaction that such a man, after that, was repeatedly invited to different shows in order to make an even greater discussion of such a "fun topic" about calling for the murder of two judges to begin reforming the judicial system. I also believe that reforming the judiciary and making good personal composition is not just about selecting judges. Of course, the judiciary must be reformed by the fact that what is wrong with the judiciary, which is not a quality, will be resolved. That's where I'd see two problems: if we faced that story that we've heard several times today -- in the judiciary we have corruption. I'm not saying she's gone, but I'm going to give a little more accurate information, which is that in three years, 27 proceedings against judges have been filed. They were all suspended. So there couldn't have been any problem with the trial. That's what two judicial convictions were made of, five are pending, because the appeal is procedure. In other proceedings, either the prosecutor has given up, or they are a liberating court ruling. If we have this in mind, we have to say that the judiciary has functioned against itself. We have to say, given more than 2,500 judges, this number is not a large percentage. Of course, it is not acceptable, because the goal and ideal of every country is that there are no judges against whom criminal proceedings are being conducted. But, then, it's not what it looks like at first sight. On the other hand, I won't argue that there's no more of this, but the presidents of the courts and the judges themselves can't reveal the perpetrators of the crime. Other institutions are responsible for this. I expect all institutions to help the judicial system, to do their part of the job, to be able to determine what would be the possibility of committing a criminal act by judicial authorities. What the courts can do, which is that authorized persons within the judiciary, are the minister and the presidents of the courts, initiate proceedings for the resolution of judges, if it is an unprofessional and unconscious trial. In that situation, the judge can react, or the president of the court. But in this situation, what happens is that here on two occasions, when we talk about the election of the President of the Courts, I had a criticism by name, because a procedure was initiated by me, as an authorized person, for the resolution of the judge by name and last name, where the proposal was read, and then an unfair decision was read, which gave the measure, a reminder to that judge. I must remind myself that this is also a kind of pressure, because the Law on Judges says in Article 57 that the session of the Great Personal Council is closed to the public. Furthermore, the General Session, which decides on the Court's objection, is also closed, and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Great Personal Council, which was published in the 2003 "Official Messenger", says that, exceptionally, when there are particularly justified reasons, the decision is greater, when it is legal, can be published in means of public information. If we're discussing a particular judge here, with specific data, about what's written, it's obvious that there's no law here, because it's not allowed. This work of the Assembly is carried by all the media, as far as I know, all -- that means television, which means it's out in public, and it's before justice, without a decision by the Greater Court. In addition, this way of functioning gives a negative example to the presidents of the courts who no longer want to initiate the proceedings, because they say - we will not be the subject of discussion of this party or that party. In addition, this points to something else, which is that MPs will then come out and have the information that this judge obviously gave, because only he could give it to a certain MP, a particular party, and thus function. As far as I understand it, there is unanimity here in that we should not allow the judicial, or judicial authority to function by addressing every executive within their district and going, as it is said here, to the president of the municipality or the ruling party in that city. I'm afraid this would lead to it, and then we won't be able to do everything we need to do if we do it that way. I would also like to say, as far as reforming the judiciary is concerned, we must bear in mind that there is a big deal in front of all of us. The judiciary, for itself, cannot complete the reforming work unless we all work at an appropriate pace and in an appropriate manner. Because the fact is, there are small courts that have five cases per judge per month. The fact is that we now have large centres, because if we analyze it, the objects are transferred to large centres, where the judge has a triple inflow of what would represent some kind of framework normative in which it could function normally. So you have to build that new network. When a new network is created, it will enable us, after that, and much better budget functioning. As far as the budget is concerned, which does not provide for funds for new laws and remarks that both the judiciary and I had to try to fight for it, unfortunately, I have to say that I am not involved in the formation of the budget, that I am not calling for a discussion on those funds that are provided for the work of the judiciary, and therefore I am not in any situation to have any impact on all this. This budget must enable courts to function, not only in terms of wages, which I have said many times, but in terms of what the normal work of courts represents. That means - a sufficient number, a sufficient amount of funds to pay the experts, a sufficient amount of funds to pay the lawyers who come to do the official defense, because otherwise they won't come and then we'll have a delay in the trial, then we'll have an inefficient trial and a more expensive trial, a higher budget spending. That's what doesn't work without each other. That's something where we all have to do-- to do an analysis, something that represents a possibility, a basis and a base for normal judicial work. So I expect us all to do it together in the future. The choice of high-quality judges and the president of the courts will make the judiciary, at least one step at a time, move towards reforming and better work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24063	Thank you, Mrs. Petrovic-Skero. I'm concluding a unique search of the motions for decisions. Let me take a few notices. First, Mr. Krasic and I went through the data. Yes, it's listed in the proposal. Mr Krasic looked at it and we found it, in the very biography submitted by the candidate not listed, and that caused the problem. Secondly, people here speak with both heart and mind, as said earlier. Of course it's political messages, but ultimately laws are passed. There's no independent judiciary. If the independent judiciary is talking about the legislator, it can't be done. It is independent of the law, not the legislator's judge. Please, when we talk about it, to understand, I got a letter and yesterday when we talked, because you're fighting, in every way, I want to say it in front of everyone, for the employees of the judiciary. The letter was on the table, but the president gets the end-of-work mail time coming in during the day. There will certainly be a conversation at the highest level. In comparison, everything we talked about, what you were talking about here, everyone will have to get to know each other, because the judiciary is part of this society, working in difficult conditions, and at the same time bearing the fate of this society. If the judiciary has increased its efficiency by 4.7% and salaries by 30%, this means that MPs, whose service has increased the efficiency of 800% and salaries by 30%, worry and do everything through the budget. Of course, there are extraordinary means through which it will be resolved. Once again, I ask that we do not contribute to confusion, because when it comes to corruption, as you know, research says 67% of employees in the area believe corruption exists. That means you've given information that's important that they're wrong, and we're all making them wrong together. And the government will have to, here comes another minister, Mr. Ilic, the government will have to take steps to create regulations of technical conditions that where the legislator predicted to start something on January 1st starts the moment the technical conditions are completed. Thank you all for understanding. Since we have conducted a single search on the motions for decisions, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motions for decisions, on the contested proposals under Article 179(4). Rules of Procedure, and then on all other undeniable proposals in general. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL ON DANIJING THE CONTRAGRANTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE BY THE GRANT OF THE EUROPEAN INVESTICION BANK (Project of a comprehensive rehabilitation of the flight control infrastructure - Serbia-Montenegro) You have received a proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party - one hour 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Democratic Party of Serbia - one hour three minutes 36 seconds, the Democratic Party - Boris Tadic - 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus - 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia - 26 minutes, 24 seconds, the Serbian Renewal Movement - New Serbia's Independent MPs 9+9 - 21 minutes 36 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, four SPP MPs, SDP deputies and five independent MPs, per five minutes, on the basis of Article 93 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a principled search. Do the words of proposing representatives Mladjan Dinkic, finance minister, and Velimir Ilic, minister of capital investment? Here you go, Mr. Ilich.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24064	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is my pleasure that today you put this very important issue on the agenda, giving a counter-guarantee to the European Investment Bank to get flight control to solve some of the technical problems currently under Flight Control. You know that flight control is extremely important to the state and that now a very important battle is being fought, that flight controls in certain countries are being in the environment as best technical equipment as possible to take up the position of the regional centre. You know that flight control must be controlled in Europe, because there is a common single flight control of Eurocontrol, where our flight control is included. We had a war, we had a bombing, we had the destruction of many elements, equipment, flight control techniques, and we weren't able to bring it all to European level for a short period of time. That is why they took loans from the IBRD and now from the European Investment Bank a 34m-euro loan, that flight control equipment and meet all those criteria that it must meet to be able to perform its function. Of course, this loan is given because Eurocontrol has laid down sharp criteria and Eurocontrol has certain guarantees that our Flight Control can service this loan, without any problems, from charging over the territory of our country. I hope the MPs understand what the problem is, will support, in order to strengthen our Flight Control, technically, to bring it to one European level and to get these funds into the line that we want to take, which is to be in the position of a regional hub that will operate flight control in the environment. You know that the flight control loan is divided, since the flight control is common to Serbia-Montenegro, eight percent of the equipment is supplied to Montenegro, and 92% is supplied to Serbia. This task to be done by the European Investment Bank for Serbia means it will serve Serbia with its guarantee, and Montenegro has already done so for its part of the credit line. I hope you will support this proposal and we will simply equip Flight Control to meet European criteria. Otherwise, we'll have problems, we won't be able to perform it, and maybe later some of the neighboring centers get the role to serve our territory. You know that the extremely good equipment of this flight control in Sofia, in Zagreb, we must achieve the European level that is necessary to be able to recognise and get those certificates that Europe is asking us to do. Once again, I would ask the MPs to support this proposal and I hope that we will do so at this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24065	Thank you, Mr. Ilic. I ask if the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee wants a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Momir Markovic, an authorised representative of the SRS for this point.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24066	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as of October 5th, from the Bulldozer of the Revolution, we say, MPs in this House are getting two kinds of draft laws to be declared. There are laws that are mostly worse than previous and legal solutions that are much worse, and we had opportunities yesterday to talk about one of those laws. Legal solutions are conditioned by the demands of Western mentors of the ruling coalition and much less the interests of the country's citizens. There are the terms of individual party finance and coalitions as well as getting jobs in the way these tycoons, which are financed by political parties, mostly by the ruling coalition, are now charging all the credits of the revolution's bulldozer. The second group of laws is much more dangerous, as it absolutely comes out of the Serbian citizens' sphere of interest and mainly covers the interest areas of Western mentors. The legislative project, regardless of what looks so benign and has only five members, is one of the most dangerous for Serbian citizens, according to Serbia's property, for national security, according to Serbia's sovereignty even by the sovereignty of the Serbia-Montenegro community. Just because he's engaged like this, I'll read it and it's very short. "The Republic of Serbia undertakes to settle Serbia-Montenegro's obligations as a counterguarantee, as a guarantor, in a work related to the Republic of Serbia, amounting to 31,280,000 euros, on the basis of a financial agreement between the European Investment Bank as a lender and an Aviation Control Agency for Serbia-Montenegro d.o.o. as a borrower, concluded etc. The counter-contribution referred to in Article 1 is given to Serbia-Montenegro, on behalf of the obligation of the Serbian Agreement to support the project between the European Investment Bank and the Republic of Serbia, concluded in accordance with the Financial Treaty between the European Investment Bank as a lender and the Aviation Control Agency of Serbia-Montenegro d.o.o. as a borrower, etc." Payment funds remain irrelevant, the fifth member when effective, etc. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's true what Mr. Minister said, that we need good flight control, that if we don't go in there and start falling behind, others will outrun us and others will take over. But let's take a turn and see how this business has developed. We used to have federal flight control, we had two radar systems, and these two radar systems covered the entire territory of the former SFRY, so SRJ, so in part, Serbia and Montenegro, the state community, and then they started building new radar systems, so now we have 5+2 systems. As it goes, I'm just going to list the first radar system, and then we'll go around building ourselves. We have a radar system at Belgrade Airport, he's working. We have a radar system in Ralja. He's in the installation and in five or six months he'll be working. We have a radar system fully equipped, installed, installed, on the bathroom. Otherwise, the value of the radar system is about sevenm euros, and when we built a complete system, the key in the lock, came NATO and literally put the key in the lock, not NATO but KFOR, and cannot be used. Then we started building a radar system on Murtenica and it's up somewhere on Zlatibor. He's still out of office. It's now being made next to the Airport of the Doves, which has a radar system, there's another radar system down at Podgorica. With 5+2 systems, we cover this shortened former Yugoslavia, that is, Serbia-Montenegro, and with two systems we covered the entire SFRY and part of the territories of other countries, because when you take over an aircraft, you have to take it from that territory. The question is, why do so many radar systems build up when we all know, the newspaper's talking about it, that it's preparing satellite air traffic, that the whole of Europe will soon, in a year, two, three, five, move on to satellite air traffic. Second, what about the so-called. Master plan. The government adopted it in 2001 and what about the funds that the master plan provided for. About 100m euros were foreseen, how much of these funds were withdrawn, what they were spent on and how much was not withdrawn and where those funds were not withdrawn. If it gave up on the master's plan, why did it give up? Whoever from the Department of Defense has granted consent to the purchase of radars that do not have a secondary component. Let me explain to the citizens of Serbia and to you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what this is really about. The primary component takes over aircraft from civil traffic, and each aircraft has a code that receives a radar station on the ground and therefore registers it. Military planes don't have those codes and a secondary element, the secondary component is currently tracking aircraft from the military system. Did we now allow it to fly over everyone's head, fly over anyone who wants this Serbia and we don't know anything about it? In 1974, we had an integrated radar system, which monitored both military and civilian aircraft. We had an exceptional flight control, which picked up all the confessions and all the thank-yous from all the countries and all the airlines. In the Federal Flight Control Authority, that's what it was called then, were high-ranking officers, high-ranking personnel, were working civilian faces, but were working officers who trained for it. Today at the Flight Control Agency, we don't have any officers. There's a few of those who've obeyed the director, but we'll talk about it later. I have a question, first of all for Minister Ilic, for you gentlemen the MPs of the ruling coalition, and this question is asked by the citizens of Serbia as soon as this story begins on this legislative project. Who's Nikola Stankov, director of the flight control agency? His basic occupation is his husband. The husband is Biljana Stankov, who was secretary to the cabinet of Zoran Djindjic, and then secretary to Zorana Zivkovic's cabinet, and is now secretary to one of the ministry's cabinets. And that and the DS membership card brought him to the position of director for flight control. Let's go back to the story of why our integration system was destroyed, and let's get that part straight. A flight control centre is formed in Vienna, covering Austria, Hungary, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Slovenia, BiH and the northern part of Italy, I mean up at Lombardi and that part. In the southern part of Italy, a large centre is being formed and all opportunities are that either by unsullied policy or by agreement we are preparing to sell our sky to that Italian part of flight control. Italy gave Padov Vienna, but that's why it will get the whole Balkans. What about the Euro 2000 plus strategy? The space will be divided by that strategy into so-called. functional zones, which will not go through the borders of the state, but rather certain spaces beyond the state borders will be covered by this strategy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24067	Excuse me, are you using another ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24068	Of course, and third, if I have to. It threatens to keep our country out of the sky, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and hence, without sovereignty. What happens when these global systems are being created now, and all the chances are that in about a dozen or fifteen years, given a completely different flight control system, they will be lifted and the national control will return, and we will destroy the national one by then. A civil-military flight control system has long been operational in Europe, and Europe accepts it, and in order not to be a story here, we had to separate Europe from civilian flight control, Europe accepts systems that integrate military-civil flight control into its wing. So this can only be a demagogue if it ever comes out here to talk about it. And let me also tell you that flight control is very profitable, approximately every aircraft is charged from 250 to 300 dollars. On average, our sky has 800 flights per day, flies when charter flights go, when traffic is higher, then goes up to 1,200, in winter months, when it decreases, it goes down to 750-800. Multiply that by 300 dollars, so multiply it by 30 days, so multiply it by 12 months, and you'll get a $150 million figure. Should an agency with such income be allowed to be in debt with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development? Why with all that income and he's got to be in charge, and I'm gonna say that a little bit later. Slowly, why a radar procurement company was formed and mostly a general firm, because it was formed by Generals Grbovic, Marjanovic, Gordic. The state that bought her seven radars doesn't need a company to get radar equipment, but they needed it for something else. The equipment that was bought is from Vietnam. Since when is Vietnam a world force in radar production? The last technological solution you'll find in Vietnam. All military personnel, except for these three, are one of his advisors, were removed from flight control, but Nikola Stankov, director of the Agency, received an honorary flight sign. The benefits of that honorary flight sign are of no importance to this parliament. Next, let's see how these people live in flight control, how they deal with that kind of money, where they spend money and what their wages are, what their working conditions are, etc. The director of the Flight Control Board - d. o. o., as it says in this bill, has a salary of over a million dinars. All his closest associates under 600,000 dinars are not. Otherwise, salaries are good in flight control. Let's say the controllers have about 150,000, but they're doing that part fat. The running set, just the ones who will control the flight controllers, by logic of things, should be the one who controls my work knows at least a little more than I do, and the flight controllers are in a position for their bosses to be people with medium professional training, of course, with a DS membership card, G17 plus or some other party. Mr. Secretary hasn't included his furniture that much yet, at least not to that extent. The main objection is why the state doesn't get any of that 150-200 million dollars back, as much as it normally earns in flight control. They say that money can't go back to the budget. For example, Germany solved it in a very simple way. He controls both civilian and military traffic, controls his military traffic at a price, say, from one dollar per flight, to military and civil state-owned companies, and thus indirectly returns money to the budget and no one has ever resented it. Stories that if we enter the Partnership for Peace, then they can't be soldiers in flight control, that NATO is making it impossible for us, etc., they also don't stand. It's been heard these days and that. Victor Agado, a man who is the director of Eurocontrol, works at the Alpaca military base, was the head of the Ministry of Defence of Spain and is now the director of Eurocontrol, and this one is the one who took after everything wearing the uniform. He'd almost start chasing the runway to get them out. So he can't wear a uniform. Let's talk a little bit about how the funds are spent, in addition to what's paid. Four months ago, official vehicles were purchased, of course, weren't middle-class vehicles, were extremely luxurious vehicles, jeeps, etc. for a million euros; 20 vehicles per 50,000 euros. They were bought from the Verano Motors. I don't want to talk about what Verano Motors and Nicole Stankov are doing. I'll talk about it if I'm challenged to a replica. However, a month ago, a request was repeated, I think that requirement was also realised, to buy vehicles for another million euros, so that everyone will have a vehicle for each day and a vehicle for the weekend, approximately. For the absurd to be larger, two pairs of motor sleds were purchased between the first and second tours. When they asked the director why he needed the snowflakes - we need them for the swimsuit. The bathroom doesn't work, not that KFOR, doesn't give the key to be put in the lock. Although, perhaps Nikola Stankov said correctly - he needs it for the Bather, because if the radar system doesn't work, for the Bacište, they all do. He won't rent a sled when he goes there. There's another pearl, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The director of the Agency for Flight Control d.o.o., a limited-responsibility society, because it would not be necessary for such a society to be unlimited, unlimited, but very limited in-responsibility, to start negotiations, I think that these negotiations are at the end, that a radar system is building in Bulgaria on the Rila Mountain. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, have you heard that anyone is building their own systems in a foreign country? If it's Nikola Stankov, I don't dare say, I don't dare think she did it because of her belongings, but that's possible. So with the facilities it'll come out at 10m euros or dollars. It's not a lot of money! Maybe that's why Deputy Prime Minister Labus hired his close relative, not to mention her name, not to advertise her, but not to know the lady, in flight control, in the boss's seat. In order for this galamatias to be cleared, the director of Stankov needs to be taken care of immediately. First, we expect it from the minister. To get UBPOK in, to have the financial police examine every spent dinar, only then set up a man, someone who's been in flight control for a long time, and then start to discuss where they are and if they had to be in charge, and if they were in charge, how and how to get back. The SRS has no intention and certainly will not vote for this bill, because it has no intention of putting money in the pocket while Serbian citizens are starving.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24069	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Of course, break an hour, let's take a break. Allow me, my personal gratitude, as someone who served in the air, on the precise and timely schedule of all allies. Paused until 14.55 p.m. [[After break – 15,00]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will continue our work after the break. I ask, before reading the list of speakers, do any of the representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a written word application, with a number of MPs, was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. I would also like to inform you that I have allowed the Minister of Capital Investment, Mr Velimir Ilic, to leave during the debate at the cabinet session for the importance of the laws and decisions on the agenda. I expect to have your understanding of that, too. The first on the list is MP Zoran Krasic. He's not here right now. The People's Messenger Branislav Rankic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24071	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal for a law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro following the loan of the European Investment Bank concerns the Project of a comprehensive rehabilitation of the flight control infrastructure. You have had the opportunity to hear from an authorised representative of the SRS on this agenda, Mr. Momir Markovic, in what situation was once the flight control service, what is it now and what is planned in the future, and what kind of equipment is used for flying control, procurement, from which countries and it appears to be some equipment that is suspicious of quality and which we expect will be very soon obsolete. The figure in this law is 31,280,000 euros. The contract was signed on June 10th of this year and funds are expected to be withdrawn by certain dynamics, which obliges the Republic of Serbia not to pay in certain time periods if the Agency, registered as a limited liability society, means practically one company, the Serbia-Montenegro Aviation Control Agency, will not pay in due time, starting from capital to interest and other costs, then the Republic of Serbia will have to accept that it will return this money, with the legal possibility of trying to collect from the Agency. Given that we have heard data that employees of the Agency, starting from directors to his associates, have salaries and over a million dinars, and more than 600,000 dinars, and that is mostly a large number of people, the question that is logically imposed is: why the Agency was unable to, in some past period, because this takes a long time, this business of the Agency, why it was unable to obtain equipment practically without credit. That was possible, or it was possible, to give as little money as possible, one part to pay right off in cash, and one part that would be necessary to get into credit by making that amount smaller. I'm telling you this because credits are not good. When all the costs of borrowing are calculated and all the methods of calculating interest and other costs that follow it come into the situation that we return much more money than we received, and the equipment that we will come to, which is used for flying control, especially radar equipment, in a very short time will become obsolete and we will have one problem that we will practically get into a situation that we have paid for something that someone wanted to release, very expensive, and after that will become unusable. Remember the beginning of mobile phone introduction into the Republic of Serbia. Just nine years ago when the first mobile phone appeared and you see how many machines have come from that area since then and that practically every month or almost every day new ones appear. The same thing is happening in these things, and now in the world the biggest problem is how someone who is some equipment produces for their military or other purposes, when it comes to flying control, how to get rid of these equipment, how to get the highest price for it, and then simply a headache has someone who needs to pay for the money, who came to this. So, for me, the first question is why the Agency for Flight Control, in addition to such a profitable business, and we've heard that it's more than $150 million a year, has failed with rational behavior to provide the funds and to buy the equipment that it needs, not to raise a loan, which will not be favourable, but we have come to a situation that neither part of this total credit agency has been able to achieve despite the high wages it shares. I must admit, for the first time I've heard of that salary height from our authorised representative on this agenda point, Mr. Momir Markovic. I was amazed that it was far from the public eye, while some other people, who are constantly under public surveillance, have a huge space in all the media about how much their profits are. So, I think that rationalisation should be introduced for the following reason: if someone is able, in a company such as this, to share such high profits, then I can only imagine what happens to the other costs that this company makes, in this case, the Agency for Flight Control, of course starting with what all the similar institutions contain, from specialised contracts, labour contracts, specialized services, materials, equipment, etc. Believe that everyone is able to spend more than 150 million a year, of course it's a large number of commissions, whether they're harmful to the Agency or not, but it's real art in these times to spend less than they've earned, to perform all their functions and to succeed in saving, which we wouldn't be in a position to get these laws from time to time. I will remind you that in this year alone, more than ten, and perhaps dozens of similar laws have been passed, starting with the fact that the Republic of Serbia has provided guarantees on various grounds for lending from the world of our institutions, which companies, which are public enterprises, which, in practice, we become very in charge, not taking into account that we may be in a situation that despite this kind of income, the Agency will not want to pay back its debts, and Serbia as a state when it accepts it will have to return them and will remain a disputed way to be charged by the Agency. Regardless of the law will guarantee that they have the right to seek their own resources in court, that is to say, the Republic of Serbia is primarily looking for its resources in the budget, given the judiciary, and the previous point was to do so, you will see that this is very difficult. I'd say one more thing, it's not about this point, but that's why I didn't answer the previous point. In the municipality of Bor SRS, she submitted 5.236 signatures for the replacement of the municipality's president to the Municipal Election Commission. The motion for impeachment was signed by the President of the Municipal Committee and the Municipal Election Commission refused to ask that such a proposal, I apologize to the President for telling the President what I may have said at the previous point, refused such a proposal for the reason that he solely asked Tomislav Nikolic to sign a motion for the impeachment of the president of the municipality. In the municipality of Kraljevo we had a case where a proposal was also submitted by the SRS, where the President of the Municipal Committee signed the proposal and simply the Municipal Election Commission did not make any problems, and now I ask you all together, and I ask the President of the Assembly, whether Bor and Kraljevo are in the same state and whether we can with such laws, with such laws, and with such conditions are those who participate in any decision-making in that area, expect someone to force the agency to return this money to the state unless they want to do so themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24072	Of course it was a rhetorical question, but since the president of this assembly knows every rate of this country, as you know, of course Bor and the King are in the same state, but also Subotica and Bujanovac. In view of this, the President of the Assembly, in accordance with his legal powers, acted when it comes to the King, as you know, exactly as it should and has scheduled the elections for February 5th. (Branislav Rankic, from the place: "And for Bor"? ( ) As soon as all the legal conditions are obtained, as well as in the other cities that I mentioned in part. So there's no reason to doubt. Just one more announcement, today we'll be working until the debate is over, I guess in particular, that point that's on the agenda until 6:00, but at the same time, because of the schedule of your obligations, if by any chance it would be possible to complete the debate in particular on the third item of the agenda, in which case, of course, not only tomorrow, because tomorrow, as we agreed, there will be no session tomorrow, but in that case it is possible that the sittings are not even on Tuesday, because Monday is not working, there is no session. If we're not able, then we'll estimate from where we're at, so you'll all be notified of what time the session is on Tuesday, but let's not prejudge. It is essential that people prepare now for the amendments, after the conclusion of this principle debate, we will start to discuss in particular the point on the agenda. Just to ask Mr. Arsic and Mr. Krasic now, as Mr. Krasic appeared in the meantime, and before that was announced by Mr. Arsic. Will you end up, Mr. Krassic, or will you do it now? Now, go ahead. The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic, then the People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic, and the People's Messenger of Mita Avram, have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24073	I will refer to several aspects of this bill. I would not like to repeat what Mr. Momir Markovic said before on this agenda point, where with some data he tried to convince most of us that we do not need any practically debt when it comes to flying control. I purposely use an old expression that existed for over 20, 30 years, not this new one, because this is actually the Flight Control Authority, where apparently Mr. Markovic had the opportunity to present authentic data on the state and business of this new agency that was formed there. Probably, on the basis of what Mr Markovic has taken out of this assembly pay phone, the public prosecutor of the republican and interior ministers should, on official duty, engage and determine whether this is the fact that Mr Markovic has stated it is true. If 2% is true of what is said, then some measures should be taken. However, such data, which are undoubtedly accurate and clearly stemming from some structure that knows what is going on in this agency, rightly question the justification of the government's borrowing for some new investments, since there is clearly a lot of funding in the regular business of that agency, a lot of resources that enable both investment and a rich current business. Since I've been doing this job a long time ago, I have to tell you that practically since 92, ever since sanctions have been imposed against the SRJ, the only authority, institutions, associations within the SRJ, which has always brought funds to the federal budget, has been the flight control board. Always. It had good management status, and based on that status all its revenues and expenditures were included in the SRJ budget and always in the SRJ budget on the revenue side accounted for extra revenue over expenditures incurred in the operation of the Aviation Control Board as some legality. There was also a situation where these funds were blocked abroad, less or more, but there were mechanisms to compensate between companies, i.e. airlines which mainly pay for these services of the Aviation Control Authority. I am telling you this to understand that what Mr. Markovic read is not something new in business from a year or two days ago since the creation of the state community. That flight control agency was always an organ that made huge revenues to the federal budget. The second feature of that administration was that it was over at the head of that administration, always being someone who originated in the structure of the Air Force and anti-aircraft defense. Now my last name comes to mind, I think it was Colonel Bilbia in his own time, and there were others coming in later, and that administration started, and I can say responsibly, that the collapse of the moment that Vuk Obradovic set up his retired brother, also by settlement within DOS, for the director of the Flight Control Board. Let me remind you, it's the one who didn't want to lift the planes when an unidentified helicopter transferred to The Hague on June 28th 2001, undercover, in a secret flight, a citizen of one of our own to Tuzla, and then to The Hague. Since the dawn of democracy – of course, it has lighted up with great arson, the Federal Assembly has lighted up, many other places have lit up, and among other things the houses in Leskovec, this MP of our colleague Žika – when this freedom and that light came, the eclipse for all our institutions started, and in this eclipse, as you can see, in the last place is the Flight Control Authority. It, thanks to the settlements between the DS and the Democratic Party of Socialists of Montenegro, came in a position to become an agency, to become a legal person towards that d.o.o., means that it is a limited-responsibility society. If the structure of capital is seen, I think it is somewhere in the explanation that 92% of that capital comes from the Republic of Serbia, the state of Serbia, and 8% from Montenegro. It's the wrong status. It must be the flight control board; it could be because of these various things in the composition of the republican authorities, because of this largely important, or that, in the end, the administration should be at the level of the state community, with all the problems. They don't even have their bills, everything goes through the Republic of Serbia's budget. But I don't want to get into that stuff. With this introduction, I wanted to strengthen those facts that Momir Markovic very specifically brought out of this pay phone. This whole thing's gonna show up in the paper. Prosecutor and Minister Jocic, if they do not read the stenogram from this session, can freely take a copy of "Great Serbia" that will appear and find out very precisely, so let them call on whoever wrote the article, invite Mr. Momir Markovic to explain some things to them, tell them where the tax inspection should go, UBPOK, and there is room for some other bodies dealing with specific areas. Furthermore, what I want to point out is, I'm discussing from the position to convince the government to withdraw this bill, not to embarrass itself, because the fact that some individuals are hiding behind this is enough. I don't tie this to groups, or even to entire parties, because some people aren't able to know what some of their individuals are doing in some outcast positions. These are just outstretched positions when someone gets the idea of doing these things. So this agency of yours from your current, regular business can provide funds for normal business and for investment. If anyone thinks that we, at all costs, need to take advantage of any possibility to get something from abroad and take it, I have to tell you that, first of all, it's not moral, it's not correct, and it's very expensive for all of us. The tactics were represented here in the National Assembly by a former minister. He was so old, he forgot to take an oath here, he took an oath after three months. Mr. Markovic, I have to use that term without the intention of insulting anyone, but in order to be recognizable, this is where we called it Mr. Euro. It was Goran Pitic. All his presentations were about mathematical formulas, figures behind which the word "euro" usually goes. When we tell him, drop it, and tell us how it goes with the outside store, the tajac, he can't escape two sentences. But if he has to say, in the perspective of 250 million of this project, the conditions, this, that, he's going to tell you three days. When you tell him -- now put a line on it, underline it, and say how much it's in the plus, as much as it's in the negative, there's no -- the prototype of the Democrats, the born Democrats. So there's no justification, there's no need for someone to be in charge of something. There is a possibility that all of this can be arranged, if necessary, to build on that system, that the system can be compatible with the first adjacent systems, as the flight monitoring goes from one centre to another center, etc. The possibility of providing means of communication that would correspond, too, exists in regular business. But if the salary is reduced to the director, so there is not as much as Mr. Markovic said, unless the costs of the business are as much as Mr. Markovic said, I am simply surprised where the journalists are. Why don't they write articles about it? Why don't they call Shabic, Shobic, I don't know what the SDPR guy's name is, which provides the passability of all the information. If the administration doesn't give the information, let them contact him, he'll provide them with all the business information, because that's what the public is interested in. That's what even the MPs are interested in. I am particularly interested in this Serbian agreement, which you did not contribute to, to see what it says in the agreement? Why didn't you deliver it? You give this agreement well and all that you have written here from Articles 1 to 4. It is said: "The Serbian Agreement on supporting the project between the European Investment Bank and the Republic of Serbia." Who concluded this contract, or agreement on behalf of the Republic of Serbia? I don't know who figured it out. I know that there is a state union with us, there is a constitutional charter of the state community, made by Bosko Ristic, Hiber and that ignorant Stevan Lilic. Then you know exactly who maintains relations with abroad, who he represents. Why didn't you give us that deal? Are you hiding something that we shouldn't see? That deal had to come with this. Next, you should have sent us a copy of the registration for this agency. How could she be an agency? Why isn't he in the status of an administrative organization? Why is it not in the status of the Board of Flight Control, so that all excess income goes into the budget, but is in the status of a shareholder society, which will, through the board of directors, schedule the profits as it pleases. We will not raise our hand for what someone should take illegally, and I will say immorally. Why? We want all of this to shake nicely, to get all the facts on the table, and everyone to decide. If, on the basis of all that is necessary, it turns out that what Momir Markovic said is true, let me see which of you will raise your hand for what the government proposes. But no, this is where it goes crazy, it's put on etc. There's another big problem here. A few months ago, we passed the Law on Public Debt, on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia, etc. Of course, in principle, the issue of how Serbia will be in debt has been resolved. In accordance with that law, I think the public debt administration should be formed, too, it seems to me to be called, which keeps records, how much local self-government is required, how much debt is owed, how many republics, how many public enterprises of republican importance, etc. Let me tell you one more thing, we had, I can't be exact, whether it applies to this matter or to the electricity industry, to the oil industry, but we have a bill that was delivered to us a dozen days ago, where it's proposed that the Counterguarantee Act - I don't know if it's the electricity industry, the mines, the oil industry, or some of these -- puts off the force, and we're asked to pass a guarantee law. It's still said there's an inopartner who's supposed to provide some funds, I don't think a group from Germany recognizes the state community's guarantee. Now I'm going to return you to that topic, when it was the Public Debt Act, about the public borrowing of the Republic of Serbia, we from the SRS have, among other things, pointed out the situation, that the question is whether the state community is a legal person in terms of business relations and the possibility of it guaranteeing someone? No, he doesn't. He doesn't have a budget. What he's got, it's just military and she's in some undefined status. How can he answer, how can he give guarantees to someone who doesn't have property? How? Parivodić made up something about the mortgage, but he'll come here to explain, his colleagues from law school laugh at him, professors. So we have two processes, where partners from abroad do not recognise the guarantee of a state community, our National Assembly is asked to pass a guarantee law, and here we have a situation, required by this counterguarantee assembly that Serbia now guarantees for the state union that if this flight control administration does not settle its obligations, practically, it means double guarantee. You can vote this, but it can happen that in 20 days a letter comes back and it's said, since the state community is not quite so sure, that an overseas financier doubts it -- from a grandmother to a grandfather, until he gets paid -- we are still asking the Republic of Serbia to pass a guarantee law. So what do we do? Then within a month of the second time, we will pass epochal expert law. Now we have on the agenda two epochal professional laws that change two expert and epochal laws that were passed a month and a half ago. I was talking a little while ago, so I said, having burned the paperwork doesn't mean someone got cured -- was crazy, stayed crazy, but there's no documentation. And someone thinks, if there's no record, he's healthy. Please appreciate a little mental health. So, two large reasons require MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to reject, reject, or, let's say, if there is a more peaceful solution, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia withdraws this law. The first ones are so-called. material reasons, which indicate that there is no justification for some new borrowing, because in your normal business your agency, which you need to convert to be a flight control board, provides in its regular business quite enough funds for current operations and for modernising, or some investments. That's the first reason. Another reason is the formal nature. We wouldn't want to engage in an examination until we get a full report and documentation. Business reports and whether or not what Mr Markovic said is true, I mean Momir Markovic. To give us the registration of that agency of yours, the report on the material and financial operations of that agency and to give us an insight, each MP, the Serbian Agreement and all these agreements that you have stated from Article 1 to Article 4, and in an explanation, where you indicate that there is some obligation to issue a counter-guarantee. When you deliver it and if we estimate it's justified, then we need to continue the discussion on this agenda point. Now, either you're pulling this off, or you who are mostly thinking hard, because there's a lot of data here, a lot of facts that point to crime, and this is in the function of crime, so you don't get into an awkward situation to have someone call you tomorrow, so to tell you, you heard the data, and you voted, so you support crime. I don't think you support crime. I ask all MPs to return this, to complete, to provide very precise data, and only then do we assess whether this law should be declared and whether it should be on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24074	The word of the messenger of the people is Veroljub Arsic; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Mita Abram.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24075	Ladies and gentlemen, when you look at the proposal itself, or the name of the law, someone would think it was just one financial law, one simple counter-guarantee, but when it was read more carefully, it was also political law. I remember in 2001 and 2002, when this assembly gave its consent to abolish the SRJ, to declare a Belgrade Charter, everyone signed it, only not the current president of the Republic of Serbia signed it at the time, then Vojislav Kostunica did so on behalf of the Republic of Serbia, although he did not have the rights and powers under the Constitution. Then we made some kind of state union, named it Serbia-Montenegro. Until then, we had a federal flying control board. Now, in a way, whether by law or by political pressure, we have some kind of agency. We'll come back to the agency a little later, but somebody look at the more careful text as the law is called, whether we give counter-guarantee to the European Investment Bank or the state community. So, the European Investment Bank, which forced you to build a state union, along with Javier Solana, does not recognise that state union and does not recognise its guarantee, but is asking that it be declared and that the counterguarantee of the Republic of Serbia. Now I ask the question, what's older: chicken or egg. So, the state community, call it whatever you want, internationally recognises a legal entity in the United Nations, and its guarantee is not recognised, but is required from some part of the territory of that state community to issue counterguarantee. Isn't that the advance of destroying this state community? Is this law written by G17, because they, for example, are that Serbia should be independent without Kosovo and Metohija, so said Miroljub Labus, especially the part that applies without Kosovo and Metohija, when he begged the Cypriots in Kosovo and Metohija to go to the elections and vote for it, he will give them independence. Who wrote this law and whose name it is and whom it gives counterguarantee. Isn't that in a certain way humiliating this parliament, isn't it the humiliation of the state community, which has already given some kind of guarantee. But that's when someone makes some kind of political situation, or even what happens, makes one such mistake as the state union, called Serbia-Montenegro, so now you don't know who's drinking or who's paying for this part when it comes to bank guarantees. If we look further, who is the beneficiary of the funds, it is said, the Serbia-Montenegro Aviation Control Agency d.o.o. So, in part, the legal person responsible, and reportedly are the founders of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro. The Republic of Serbia with 92 per cent and Montenegro with eight per cent. We have an agency, so a legal person with partial responsibility. So the founder does not guarantee his property, but the person who is legally registered guarantees only his property. The Republic has already given up ownership of the agency in advance, because in the event of its non-business, it cannot cover its debts but rather gives them itself. But it's not the debt problem that arises, it's the problem that, as a partially responsible person, it's not the obligation to pay the funds into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and there's actually the problem, which is why you wrote a partially responsible person, not a public enterprise. The agency established by the Government of the Republic of Serbia or the state union cannot be a partially responsible person. Is this in line with the Business Society Act, first to check it out, and then to ask the question, Mr. Momir Markovic has brought out here how much one such agency can earn, especially if it controls only a flyover over the state community, and it is not only that overpassion, but it controls some roadways and overflights of the surrounding countries. If there are 800 flights, so times 200 dollars, or should I say a thousand flights, makes it easier to count, times 200 dollars or euros, now it's a small difference, it's $200,000 a day. Where's that money going? Where's he going? I know how to count, so 1,000 h 200 = 200,000. So where does this money go? When that question is asked, where does that money go, it can be concluded that it goes to pay. But how many of them are in that flight control agency and what's the pay range? We found out here that pay, say, one flight controller, the person who makes that money and who's stressed out while he's doing it, because it's known that this job is extremely hard, so they have a salary of about 150,000 dinars to 200,000, if there's a duty, etc. Mr. Director, who has no idea about flying control and who only knows a plane from a business class where leather seats and nothing else about flying control has a clue, has a million dinar salary. We found out it was one of the most common thieves in the DS. All the people around him are also thieves from the DS, and why they're thieves. Now I'm going to tell you that. It's supposed to be some kind of modernization of the flight control system. The equipment that's being supplied is from Vietnam. Usually, the Federal Aviation Control Authority used equipment that was either English or U.S. origins, never from Vietnam. Never. The question arises how modern this equipment is, did the Americans maybe leave it in the '60s and '70s when they retired from Vietnam, and now they're selling it to us for $32 million. If we buy it for $32 million, it's probably because the director's salary of millions of dinars is a small, monthly salary, so he has to make a little bit of money on commissions when tendering and public procurement, especially since the tenderes he makes, especially what the public procurement commission is forming, especially what the commission suits him. So there could be pressure on her, too. It's supposed to be a company founded by the Government of the Republic of Serbia with 92% and it doesn't suit anyone at least the government, let alone the Assembly, and you let them do whatever you want. Now you're coming to the Serbian Parliament and you're asking us to give counter-guarantee to the state community. Serbia is not recognised as a UN member. The state union, as you call it, Serbia-Montenegro is. How can we give that counter-guarantee unless someone wants to break up the common state by now? If each Member State specifically gives counter-guarantee, there is no common state. Next, whether they needed that loan. No, but it seems to me that this gentleman is just a little bit. Let's say, instead of radar and radar systems, they're doing construction of buildings. I don't mind if the conditions for working in those buildings are bad. But not only are they not bad, but they're in excellent condition, but there's got to be an outer carpentry, which is usually aluminum, most of it, to someone else. Why? So someone can take the money again when they get that carpentry. It's probably a percentage of 20, 30, or more, because these prices are pretty high. Twice already in less than a year they spent money to change the fleet. So they spent twice a million euros getting new cars. The peak of all that, for that centre of radar on the Kopalnik, which will never work, is also obtained ski-sands. Let's not talk about Belgrade Airport, VIP salons. You said, at least Velimir Ilic, when he knocked down DOS here, he said all the thieves would be arrested. Now, not only did he not arrest them, but he rewarded them and gave them even better places, he gave them the opportunity to steal even more, so if the company they stole from couldn't make enough money, then there's credit to give them to steal. It's best if one of these legal proposals is withdrawn. There's no Mr. Minister here to answer a few questions, because federal flight control, whose legal successor is that agency, has been working with a time of economic sanctions. They flew over the SRJ then, under the same conditions as now. However, the funds were partially frozen, could be used to pay employees' salaries and to purchase new equipment. The rest of the funds were paid to Swiss banks, where it was frozen. They even had to be airlines that were now from hostile countries, such as us. Slovenia, which did not want to fly across the territory of the SRJ, had to eventually return and pay off all its commitments. We, as a reward, have avoided us then, give them extremely attractive locations in New Belgrade, for Mercator and Mercury. So when he's supposed to pay, he doesn't want to, but when he has to take it, he's here. What about that money? It's not about small funds. In addition to the suspension of economic sanctions later, there is a wall of sanctions that has not been lifted in part until today's day, even though you promised it on October 5, 2000. The money that earned the federal control of the flight management for flight control over the SRJ, Macedonia and then BiH until 99th was frozen by Swiss banks. Where is he now? Especially since it's not about small amounts of money. If they found out where that money was, and I believe the click that took over from both the National Bank and the State on 5 October, they'd spent that money a long time ago. There is no Mr. Minister of Capital Investment, I would say here, when I read this law, about capital fraud and theft, to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24076	The word is made by the MP Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24077	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you who may not have wanted to get into this, as it was called, celestial robbery, listen to the data and you will vote in the day to vote for the approval of this counterguarantee. You probably didn't even realize that the DS member, and already mentioned so many times, is the director of flight control Stankov, one of the DOS furniture, and you have many in the ministries, and in the Institute, and in the CIP, whether so, colleague Djordjevic, everywhere, at Belgrade Airport, and who continued to rob everything that comes under their hands, and that Serbian citizens must know that this amount of millions in euros will certainly be long to pay for future generations. Yesterday someone was telling us here from the members of the expert group that the debt of the population is so great that at this point, by making a partnership with the borrowing of Americans and those living in Western Europe, we don't even know how big it is. According to an estimate of economists in Serbia, between 12 billion and 14 billion euros are moving. How? By bringing themselves into debt through expensive loans and all those supplies that they need to provide for themselves and their family members. Now, you serve them well, Minister Ilic escaped, because he probably knew that it would happen and that one such story would follow, when he saw that Mr. Momir Markovic was an authorised proponent, because it was not the first time that Mr. Markovic talked about the robberies that occurred in this case of members of the Democratic Party, which you guard and cherish as a bit of water in the palm of your hand. With the ministry's gentlemen, and neither is the president of the Assembly, I will take the opportunity to take advantage of the assistant editor-in-chief of one of the most investigative and most read newspapers in Serbia, "Greater Serbia", in the edition of the SRS, Mr Momir Markovic, who is also one of the most prominent journalists of this prominent newspaper in Serbia, this magazine, it was embarrassing that I advertised my article in the newspaper. I'll leave it to you, gentlemen, to see how this celestial robbery took place and to what data, and it has been published in the latest issue of "Great Serbia", came Mr. Momir Markovic, when he wrote about it, and the title above that article is - Who controls the controllers? The question remains, it is also information for you and for the MPs, I call on that member of the Rules of Procedure, so that you can continue to participate in the work on this point and by considering in particular, to see how Serbian citizens will have to pay for criminals and thieves from the DS and the whole lobby around them, which you obviously support and are their continuity in the way of rule, as did Minister Ilic. I will ask you, sir or ma'am, to turn you over to Minister Ilic's magazine because he did not honor the MPs, nor his colleague Markovic, who spoke about it, went out in the middle of his speech, to hand him the newspaper, and to read about the robbery.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24078	The word of the messenger of the people is Mita Abram; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24079	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, you heard Mr. Velju Ilic, our minister, who in his presentation or explanation for this counter-guarantee of 31,280,000 euros spent here about two minutes, saying it was necessary to monitor the technique in the world, that we must have a new technique to track the aircraft, since the planes also have some devices, etc. We are a land located on a large door, both between the east and the west, both in road and in air traffic. That flight control we have has a very large flow of cash. That's what more speakers said here, that I don't repeat those numbers, but no one said where that money ends. If that money is directed to help avoid, to help the sick, to help any kind of our people, then it is commendable. If the money was directed in that direction, we would know it for sure, and it would be said that the money went that way, as it is humane, as it takes care of the people, which is the duty and obligation of every government. That story wasn't there, which means they don't even end up in that direction. Surely one part of the funds goes to employees, and the other part - the only thing the Agency knows, and we can suspect. We're open to doubt in all directions, because we have no reason to think of anything else. Montenegro participates 8%, Serbia 92%. That's where it's all been said. Surely most of the burden lies on Serbia, so the SRS, as far as this counter-guarantee is concerned, will not give support to this government or the Agency that was formed to take care of this cash inflow. The agency doesn't account for anyone but the minister, which means there's a close connection between the minister and the agency. The people have no insight into it, and for that reason we won't even support this, because we openly suspect that this large amount of money, this daily inflow that's huge, probably ends up in someone's pockets.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24080	The word is Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24081	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing the proposal for a law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro following the loan of the European Investment Bank. As my colleagues in the SRS said, from Momir Markovic, so Zoran Krasic and counterpart Arsic, the SRS has a clear concept when it comes to legal projects that were to be adopted by the National Assembly. This is another one in a series of laws being passed in a hasty way, arguing through reasons for law-making, on the grounds that there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of laws in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The following reasons are said: "The reasons for the adoption of the law on the granting of counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro following the loan of the European Investment Bank (Project of a comprehensive rehabilitation of the flight control infrastructure) are contained in the Serbian agreement on supporting the project, concluded between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. The agreement envisions that the Republic of Serbia, in favour of Serbia-Montenegro, as a guarantor, issue a counter-guarantee of its founding capital at the Serbia-Montenegro Flight Control Agency d.o.o.." It was said by colleagues from the SRS, the point is that we believe that this is one bill that is not only inaccurate, but it is not the place to discuss it in this way. Since this is about the Agency, which is a limited-responsibility society, it says that they can and do not have to pay funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget. The question then arises how will the management board of the agency distribute these funds and how will we be in control of these funds. So, the bottom line is that the Republic of Serbia needs to pass a bill like this. We of the SRS believe that this bill was to be withdrawn from this assembly debate and we have said the reasons why. First are the reasons of material nature and second, as counterpart Krasic said, formal nature. We are interested in the report on the Agency's business, as the Agency's registered, technical nature report. We are particularly interested in why you did not inform us about the Serbian agreement that you mentioned in the reasons for the adoption of the law. So what interests us most in this bill, which should be the reasons, and we did not get as arguments from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The SRS Parliament Club believes that there is no economic justification for the formation of these powerful agencies in various structures of the state administration, and whenever we talked about this speaker, we spoke critically, and I think that one of our colleagues mentioned what was missing when there was a flight control board, which was in SRJ, which is no longer available. Of course, there is no economic justification for the formation of so many agencies in the state apparatus, accumulation of administrative apparatus, etc. So what is the position of the SRS and the parliamentary club is quite clear when you propose laws to the National Assembly they must be precise and clear. We MPs are obliged to be informed and informed of all the agreements signed by someone. We don't know that now. So what some European and global airlines do, such as British Airways, KLM or Air France, means, of course, that these experiences should be applied to us. But when we talk about giving counterguarantee, it's already very serious matter. It is a proposal for a law of financial nature and Serbia as a member, according to the Constitutional Charter, has some obligations and this proposal should be discussed in the parliament of the Serbia-Montenegro community. What we have said as a parliamentary group for this speaker should always stand in the reason for law-making clearly argued why and why. And this is how the proposal is inaccurate and vague. After all, we can question the government's intentions and those who have proposed such a bill to the National Assembly. Therefore, we believe that it is better to withdraw such a bill from the congregation procedure, you still have time. We believe that this legislative proposal is not good and the arguments that we have made before the public of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia are quite clear to all.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24082	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Allocation of TRANSFER RESISTANCES FROM THE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA AND THE PARTICIPATION OF COMMUNITY, CITY AND THE CITY OF BELEGRAD IN 2006. YOU have received amendments submitted by MPs: Bogoljub Pejčić, Bojan Kekić, Živojin Stefanović, Toma Busetic and Hranislav Perić. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted to the draft law. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 3rd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Bojan Kekic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment, with correction, legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Živojin Stefanovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Toma Busetic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Tom Bushetić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24083	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, President, I have proposed an amendment to increase the transfer funds of seven million dinars to the Rekovac municipality. It is a municipality that is underdeveloped, which is small, a municipality that has 366km of surface, covers 32 settlements, has 15,000 inhabitants, and in 1931, it has 32,000 inhabitants. It is clear that from the 1930s to today, many other municipalities in the Republic of Serbia were developing in the right way or not. It is clear that the tax accounting system, the budgeting system, as suggested by Minister Dinkic and under these new laws, is difficult to fill in to finance the elemental needs. For example, in 2005, the entire budget of the municipality of Rekovac amounted to 50 million dinars, and of that sum 25 million were transfer funds. So, this new budget-loading system is quite clear that profit tax, and all budgets are charged with 50% of the total income, so it's hard to come up with any plan. Simply, in the Rekovac municipality, all companies, which worked until 2000 with a lower capacity, with a reduced number of workers, were shut down. It's a one-drive cable factory, a first-time plant that employs 500 workers, then 400, so 300, we don't have a single employee in that plant today. There were two basements in the Rekovac municipality, as we say, in Belusic and in Rekovac, with 100 employees each. No one works here anymore, no profit, no taxes, and the budget of the river municipality is completely mutilated and this new system is certain that the elementary functions in the Rekovac municipality cannot be performed. And on the other hand, we have a situation that in this municipality, which is a large area, so second in the county, we have 32 villages, now villages are quite detached, we have out-of-the-way departments, two elementary schools, difficult conditions of transport, and I think we have a lot of arguments when we talk about this municipality being added to a new transfer amount of seven million dinars, as I suggested. It's really a drop in the sea compared to Belgrade's funds. Each of the MPs is obliged to say and propose if he adds something to a municipality or city. I don't think it will mean anything to Belgrade, and for this municipality it will mean a lot, so I expect all parliamentary groups, regardless of their views, that Serbia is one and that all municipalities should be equal, will have a lot of understanding when the day comes for the vote and will support this proposal to increase the transfer funds for the Rekovac municipality. On the other hand, I'd like to say that it's unreasonable for me as a Jagodina MP to have only 86 million in these transfer funds. If we were to make any parallel with many municipalities that are approximately the size, with an estimated population, with an estimated number of employees, I'm not going to mention which municipalities are concerned, but I'm just sure there are at least a dozen municipalities that have references similar to the strawberry municipality, and they have transfer funds that are 50% larger, 100% higher. I don't know how Minister Jagodini determined only 86 million, given that during 2003 alone, Jagodina had a transfer amount of over 130 million.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24084	The word is from MP Bojan Kekic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24085	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs, in the context of the principle debate, I spoke of one introduction to the amendment I submitted and it is characteristic that this law on the distribution of transfer funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget and the participation of municipalities is very important for us MPs, since we are also representing the territory from which we are coming. Aware of the fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as informed, has rejected all amendments, I am in two directions, if this amendment is spoken of, and this is that when setting the criteria for the following year, for the 2007 budget, particular attention should be taken to the category of persons living and working abroad, and they have a touchy point with their households, i.e. with settlements in which they spend at least two months a year or their households or their families, respectively, providing certain financial resources. In Braničev County, more than 40,000 inhabitants are abroad. There is a database that is most precisely done in Petrovac, where it has 11542,000, Žabari 5,200,000, Gradišče 5,200,000, Malo Crnića about 5,000. All these citizens living abroad, either annually or monthly, send funds to their families, or when they come on a well-deserved vacation, they spend those funds. They are automatically becoming participants in the VAT and the automatic bonus of the municipality, which is heading towards the Republic, is much bigger than this situation is. I therefore advocate that these municipalities, which have a large number of people abroad, so that they can build infrastructure, because there are no certain mechanisms, have long forgotten the category of self-delivery and everything else, is very difficult to charge from that population, that through transfer funds, based on criteria, and I will propose a criterion, to deliver, or to return to municipalities. The criterion would be, what I propose in agreement with the presidents of the municipalities of Petrovac, Žabara, Gradište and Mali Crnić, to make transfers of a million dinars per 1,000 inhabitants. Why out of a million dinars? Realizing that when these people come or their own household share of the funds is spent in larger centres, in larger cities, that would be a certain minimum. What I would like to ask the Ministry of Finance, given that there is a current reserve, which is that these municipalities in 2006 have more funds from the current reserve, namely Petrovac 11 million, Žabarim, Gradište and Mali Crnić, which will be used exclusively for infrastructure, i.e. for the construction of roads, waterways, sewerage and everything else. I think that this criterion will be supported by all the other MPs and by the identification of transfer funds, but I am sure that the Ministry of Finance will meet these municipalities, so that on the basis of these revenues that they make and come from the Republic they can grow a little faster in their local self-government, given that most of these municipalities, whose people are abroad, are underdeveloped.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24086	The word has a folk MP, Živojin Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24087	Last year, when the law was on the agenda, a promise was made before this parliament to make criteria for the transfer of funds. As I see this proposal, it is the same as last year's, there are no criteria on which to transfer funds, but it looks only 11% and something, regardless of which municipalities were damaged last year and which were in a privileged position. I felt that the criteria would be adopted and that there was no need for this speaker to be provided with information about certain municipalities and when we were asking for funds as if we were asking for charity. I submitted an amendment not to be rejected, asking the city of Belgrade, in Article 3(a) of the Belgrade city, to increase funds to municipalities, under 72. Lebanese, and under 82. Bear. I come from the end of the extreme underdeveloped. The municipality of Lebana is known as the municipality with the lowest average personal income in Serbia. And it's been written for years and that's what he's talking about. There are 25,000 residents, 5,000 are unemployed, 24 primary schools and two secondary schools. With the means provided, it cannot fulfil the function of local self-government, especially where provided for in Articles 7 or 8, that unless they carry out persons according to medium and basic education, there will be a suspension of the transfer funds. She's also a border municipality. There's a section bordering Kosovo and Metohija. Almost no company works. If the criteria had been adopted, Lebane would most likely have received more funding. When I looked at the budget schedule, I don't want the municipalities arguing among themselves, but it is evident that where the minister is participating in power, with the same number of residents, with smaller problems, double the resources. Look, you'll see. I'm sure these municipalities need that much money, but this has already gone too far. Where Mr. Minister is located last year without the criteria given more, only 11% and more are now added, and other municipalities are lagging behind. I think Lebanese deserve the attention of the entire Republic of Serbia, because this area will be abandoned very quickly, and then we won't need the funds to return the population. It has already been attacked by the purchase of objects by the Shipar, and so does the Bear. The bear is one of the three municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, it is one of the three municipalities with the majority population, and it is significantly majority, the Serb population. Except for a state-owned, social enterprise that works, a couple of utility systems, no company works and no employees. Some facilities were financed through the Coordination Centre to maintain the population. On this day, the bear community owes over 50 million. How it will be paid to contractors or creditors, and the funds continue to be reduced to this municipality, and we can come to a situation where some next parliament here also speaks of Medvedja as a municipality with a majority Albanian population. I believe that this is an irregular, non-domestic relationship between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and these two municipalities, and I only took advantage of the possibility that the amendment would not be rejected, that I would ask, that I would not see Belgrade get much more, that it should be removed from Belgrade, but the only legal possibility was for the amendment to be legally possible and that it could be spoken of here, precisely to take advantage of this formal legal possibility, but the essential thing is that the transfer funds to Leban and Medvedji were increased. We can't just live on a story. I'll tell you, that neighborhood is still underrated. Not because he has some special relationships in what Mrs. Minister of Agriculture did to us, but this is evident. Fake credits for woodworking farmers. We want to keep the peasants in the country, we want to not leave that area to the Shiptars, we give loans to fakes, the funds don't come to the bank, the Guarantee Fund asks people to show where they spent those funds, and the bank says the funds haven't been received since the government. I don't trust the media very much, but I had a chance to talk to this man a few days ago. If he won in the meantime, I apologize to the minister, but no funds were received. It's not just him, it's about all eight loans that are supposed to be designed to develop farmers or retain farmers in the villages of the woodland. That is why I believe that the amendment that I have submitted is correct and that this amendment should be supported.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24088	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24089	I would like to respond to the above-mentioned presentation, first of all to the newspaper article that was shown, since it was, in all likelihood, a newspaper article in which the journalist was not exactly acting according to the rules of investigative journalism, so he did not try to trace the news. In my deep conviction, it is not enough to listen to only one side, but to hear everything, even those who put it behind the pay phone should also check what it is. So when it comes to a specific gentleman, with whom I also spoke, immediately after the article that appeared, it is quite clear that it is not about any failure of the Ministry of Agriculture or the failure of the Guarantee Fund. The loan was granted both by the Ministry of Agriculture and by the Guarantee Fund. My research has shown that the problem in the bank is that according to what I heard from the bank's director, it has a discretionary right to grant or not to grant a loan, since 15% of the credit risk is provided by the bank. What I'm saying is, in the context of the newspaper's writing in question, it's a bank that hasn't approved a loan yet. The bank has a discretionary right to such a thing and they have their reasons. So, if anyone else wants to deal with it, I'm pointing him to a competent bank. The Ministry of Agriculture isn't that. It's completely incorrect information that the Ministry of Agriculture hasn't transferred funds. The loan technology is such that when the bank approves a certain loan, it sends a request to the Ministry of Agriculture to transfer those funds. To date, the Ministry of Agriculture has not received such a request from the competent bank. So that's about it. As for the other discussions relating to the transfer funds, I recommend that the representatives of Leskovac Municipality spend in future the budgets that are being transferred to them, since I am very interested in hearing if anyone will challenge me on the matter (No, HVB Bank). ), since the conclusion of the budgetary inspection, which worked in the municipality of Leskovac, that the funds in the municipality of Leskovac were not intended to be spent. So it is recommended that the finance ministry and budget inspections be spent in future. I will not mention another affair at this time, perhaps later, if I get a reason for it, I would recommend to the representatives of the local government in Leskovec that what they get spend on purpose, so maybe the citizens will live a little better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24090	Replica, MP Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24091	Ladies and gentlemen, I recommend that our distinguished colleague come out next time in the local elections, win and develop the Leskovac municipality normally. It's amazing that you always pick up when something for Leskovac is wanted. You're just chasing things. I've brought out facts that are true. The man did not receive the funds, as did that Petkovic in Gornji Jajina, and when that Petkovic was promised a loan. Approximately, you act like a JUL, except JUL — a sack of flour, two or three kilos of sugar, and two bottles of oil before the vote. You came before the local community elections, so in several villages you promised large funds, even if you were building playgrounds past local self-government, so that they would get the grant money just to file. People ran, you got two or three villages, I want you to develop them and not tell the story here, but if people got the money, they didn't get the money. I'm interested in that bank, the Exim Bank was sold to, sold to, but it's true that people didn't get the funds. This one from Lower Yajina may not be a good host, but in Gornji Jajina they are very good hosts, along with their two families, they received 111 votes for the local community. So give them the funds to go to the polls again tomorrow. Not only that, it's been done permanently before the elections, you're the original copy of JUL, only they didn't have a budget like this and they didn't have a minister, but they had a little bit of sugar, a little flour, a little oil, and you're rattling around with almost money, and that's where the voices fall. You've just been read about it. Don't defend local self-government anymore, you're the government here. Order the Minister to impose temporary measures, so rule that Leskovci, otherwise you cannot win the election. As long as she's a radical and socialist, you won't get the election down there, I'll sign it right here from this place. People know what you did and what we do. As for the purposeless spending of funds, it is again with you, my dear bearers of power. What do you want? You want to disband parliament if someone purposelessly spent their budget. You know who the asset commander is. Therefore, you have mechanisms in law. You let the budget inspection come. Was she, did she make a record? Please, she made a record. That report must be sent to the finance ministry, must be delivered to the local self-government minister. If pursuant to Article 42. The Law on Local Self-Government, point 5, comes up with someone doing it, then a nice solution is made, and it loses its function. You want to go through that report by the budgetary inspector to make sure that all Leskovci are unfair, that the whole parliament is unfair, that all parliamentarians in Leskovac were stealing. What's this all about? You want to fight two to three parliamentary parties in Leskovac again. So, you have the options, you have the cakes and the knife, here's the knife. Use both the cake and the knife. Don't let Leskovac shame someone who did it, and whoever did it, if you doubt it, we didn't support him in the election, you all know it well in Leskovac. You all did, so-called. The democratic option you agreed to be, not to be our candidate. We're very clear on that. Don't pay any more respects to me. You tried everything to me in the last five years -- to arrest me, to determine my shortcomings, my surpluses, my theft, and there was nothing you could do to me. You've been questioning me since my great-grandfather, you who came as a democratic option. You didn't find anything. Not behind this pay phone, because the Leskians know who you are, who I am, in the end line. If you want to clarify that, to push into legal frameworks, then come on, you have a minister of finance, stop the transfer funds; you have a minister of local self-government, make a solution. If local self-government doesn't act, then it's her fault. You've got law enforcement, you want the impasse parliament to turn into SUP, the prosecution, the court. It's just that it can't. The Leskovac SUP, the court and the prosecution have been doing nothing for five years, dealing only with politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24092	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, or you are misread, has the word of the People's MP, Snezana Stojanović-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24093	So again, I want to explain, as far as agricultural loans are concerned, we don't give agricultural loans. Agricultural loans are provided by the Serbian government, the agriculture ministry, in co-operation with banks. The banks are the ones who finally decide. It would be illegal and impossible to give credit to anyone at our discretion, there must be certain guarantees. The bank is the one seeking guarantees from very good and respected hosts, which the gentleman has already mentioned. I hope these loans will be realised, but I was simply reacting to the fact that newspapers aren't always something to be trusted. Again, I appeal to investigative journalism, and as far as politicians are concerned, I appeal to political responsibility, not to wave at newspaper articles, we could wave for days and nights, there are all kinds of articles about everything. Just let us deal with the facts. I instructed the gentleman to, if he had already spoken to the host concerned, that he could use the same channels I used - the phone, to ask about what was going on with it. As for building, as the gentleman said, terrains in villages etc., I will refer it once more to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which we all adopted together and where it is envisaged to build sports courts in schools. So that's something that also does not work G17 plus, but works by the Serbian government. These funds are clearly defined by the budget in order to encourage young people to play sports, stay in the country and spend time in an adequate way. As for local self-government in Leskovac, I'll do it again. So there are instruments and of course those instruments should be run. As far as the finance ministry is concerned, it sent a budget inspection into that municipality. The results of the budget inspections were given to everyone who was supposed to get it. The findings are such that there was an accidental spending of funds. Of course, that finding has also been obtained by certain law enforcement authorities and, of course, they will continue to act on that finding. That's not controversial. What's so controversial about me, in a political sense? It's a dispute if you're in a coalition with someone who did it. So I don't even call it far from saying at some point that it applies to all the people of Leskovci. It's just a matter of work. Of course it does not apply to the citizens of Leskovec and, of course, it does not apply to the entire local parliament, but you will allow, as you can always call us, or the parties that make up the ruling coalition in the Republic, so we can also call the parties that make up the ruling coalition in the local. If a scandal occurs, something beyond the law, then of course the coalition should react. There are very simple ways to do this, simply, you're not in that coalition anymore. So it's a matter of political responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24094	Anyone else on the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bogoljub Pejcic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from the People's Messenger Bogoljub Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24095	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to assure you first that I have not submitted this amendment for some marketing reasons, because the Rekovac municipality, with the highest migration rate and where the average age of the residents is the remaining 60 years, you will admit, is not a convenient place to send and send party propaganda messages. I submitted this amendment only for reasons to draw attention to the current and future governments for one great historical injustice, which is a fact not only of the Rekovac municipality, but also of all small municipalities of central Serbia, where almost nothing has been invested in the past 50 years for ideological reasons and these municipalities have been left for silent extinction. Namely, the municipality of Rekovac, as well as those of others in central Serbia, who passed there knows that these are over-rich municipalities with beautiful landscapes, but unfortunately they were considered pro-ready and promonarchistic strongholds, so they were left to be impoverished. The Rekovac municipality is just a paradigm of that kind of injury. Of course, I don't want to list all the other municipalities, but I want to say that I don't come from these parts, nor have I ever lived there, and I don't have any personal or special reasons for saying this, but I'm up for it, so to say, a drop of help to the Rekovac municipality, because to take away Belgrade six million and add Rekovac, for Belgrade it's a drop in the sea, and for Rekovac, it's a great hope that at least those children, who walk 15km to school, will be allowed to do normal schooling. I guess there's so much to thank you for.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24096	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Hranislav Peric. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24097	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I think there are few MPs in the O.R. and you can explain how much you want to be right about your amendment, when it comes to transfer funds, because there won't be many MPs to know. Therefore, in the voting day, it is hardly possible to decide. Until a few minutes ago, there were no heads of parliament clubs, but I am pleased to have two bosses sitting in the hall right now, there is Aligrudic and Albianic, so I think they can influence their MP groups to support in voting day to correct this law as much as he can correct. In article 3 under A - city, regular number 3 - Nis, the amount "518.665.390" is replaced by "500.665.390" dinar. In the same article under B - municipality, regular number 43 - Doljevac, the amount "25,599,625" is replaced by "31,599,625" dinar; regular number 48 - Žitoradje, amount "24,022,622" is replaced by "30,022,622" and regular number 83 - Merošina, amount "27,293,566" is replaced by "35,293,566" dinar. An explanation - the amendment proposes to increase the amount of transfer funds to the municipalities of Nisavski County, Merošini, Žitorajji, Doljevac, and they are undeveloped municipalities. An increase of six million dinars for each of those municipalities is proposed at the expense of funds allocated to the town of Nis, as Nis has good local sources of funding. In addition, the DIN and other companies are mainly employed by workers from these small municipalities, so Nis' taxes remain on profits. At the same time, local sources of income in these municipalities are minimal because they are mainly hill-mounted municipalities, with minimum resources from the use of city building land. There are great costs for schools because of the great divergence of the terrain, because they are rural areas, and it is necessary to increase the transfer in the way it is proposed. I'm going to do it this briefly to make it clearer for the MPs to explain, so Nis needs to take 18 million from Nis, and then add six million to Meroshini, Doljevac and Žitoraj. When it was the Budget Law, I asked for special allocations, an item for underdeveloped municipalities, and now there would be no problem in settling underdeveloped and poor municipalities from that item. I was saying, when on the agenda were transfer funds in principle, which means being an undeveloped municipality, which means when the underdeveloped community is located next to the big city, how much it gets to a municipality that's only a dozen miles from the big city, so I'm just going to repeat it so that you understand it better and understand it. Meroshina and these other municipalities I mention are located only 15 to 20 km from Nis. Two thousand Meroshina workers work in companies in Nis, and all pay-based taxes, these small salaries, all going towards the financial budget. Perhaps even those small salaries made in the town of Nis, they spent it in the shops, the shops are again poured into the budget, so that Žitoradja, Doljevac and Merošin do not have much of it, remain poor, although the population deals exclusively with agricultural production and food on the market comes from these municipalities. So this isn't much. Nis can only reach 18 million with one location for a local, because no one will go there in villages in Zitoraj and Meroshini to make special bars. It's no money. They would mean a lot to these three municipalities, so I ask you to pay attention to this amendment in the voting day and vote. I don't think that's going to be difficult here, because I thought I might explain it better, but I see MPs from Nis, except Rajcic, and these others don't matter, because they hold power in Nis. I think we can find a common language here. If they were Democrats, I wouldn't ask them. I think New Serbia's have a little bit of a width and we're going to have to agree on this and vote this out by the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24098	Thank you, Mr. Perry. Anyone else want a word? Here you go, Mr. Todorovic, according to the same amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24099	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I need to report after my fellow MPs from the SPS group, Mr. Busetic, Bojan Kekic, Žika Stefanovic and Hranet Peric are presented. Why? Because there is one legality in the exhibition, and it consists in the next. The least money they've won at this point, at least that's how it's seen, those municipalities that are underdeveloped. You can see that list of municipalities, Zika mentioned Medveđa and Lebana, Toma Busetic Rekovac, Bojan Kekić Žabara, Gradište, Petrovac and Crnić. My colleague Peric mentioned Merošin, Doljevac, Žitoradja, and these are really undeveloped municipalities and these funds that are defined in the bill are certainly not enough to cover their growing needs and solve their big problems. But why am I talking about this legality in the presentation of my fellow Members of Parliament? Because this individual exposure shows this insatiable need to find a proposal for a law on regional development very quickly in front of this assembly home, and this on even regional development. Only under the law, including the announced laws on the financing of local communities, will we be able to correct certain injustices that have been accumulated for years. We enter the distribution of funds from year to year without proper criteria. The law is necessary and we must bring it forward very quickly, in a package with the law on the property of local communities, with the law on the financing of local communities, and this third law would sort of regulate the financing issue. One more thing is very important to me. A colleague, Bojan Kekic, opened two very interesting questions to me. One question is the relationship between our citizens working on temporary work abroad and their participation in the total amount of value added tax collected in the area of one municipality, including the Republic. The second question is in general their status in financing some common needs in the area of municipalities where they have property. You know that the previous law, when the VAT Act was adopted and some other areas were regulated, in a legally accessible way the sales tax was in a way derived from the budget of local parliaments, so at this point, some of the VAT funds are channelled to local environments where the VAT is essentially collected. I think whoever makes the law on funding local communities must keep in mind what my colleague Bojan Kekic was talking about. You see, a thousand people from the area of a municipality come at given times and spend their resources, and that's true. When they spend a million dinars, there are about 180 or 200,000 VAT dinars in those million dinars. The entire 200,000 dinars, and I speak figuratively for illustration, goes into the Republic budget. The question is whether to the same extent and return to the area of the municipality in which the increased or increased VAT amount has been collected. This further means that whoever makes the criteria must have that fact in mind, because there are environments that have an extremely high number of our citizens who are on temporary work abroad. Look, let's say, another question. Now I'm going to set an example of the environment I come from, and we've launched an initiative to establish four funds in the area of the password community. One fund is for capital investment and infrastructure, the other for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, the third for the protection of the environment and the fourth for the development of agriculture. When you come to the Ministry of Finance, they say -- no, that's not possible, because the law does not foresee the possibility of such funds being set up. It could be an agency or I don't know which other institution, and those who have already done so are most likely not to have done so in accordance with the law. What's the idea? To raise appropriate funds through these funds and to finance certain activities in these areas that I was talking about from such funds and from that capital. Now this important factor is that of our people working abroad and comes especially to terms, because these funds and these agencies or institutions, and we call them whatever we want, can be exactly the place where these people who gain and earn their profits abroad could invest certain funds with a view to investing these funds in the development of environments in the area of municipalities where they have property. When I say property, it's important that we all understand here. Property is the original income of local congregations. But if the municipality is underdeveloped, then the value of the property is so low that the property tax is not issued and does not fill to a significant extent the municipal budget. Then you take the cities that are developed, like Belgrade, New Sad, where you have too much value, at the republican level observed, of property. Then it is at the Belgrade level of property tax and how the city of Belgrade's budget revenue is betrayed. In Meroshina, that's certainly not the case. In Žitoraja, that's not the case. There is no case in Montenegro, as in many other small municipalities spoken of here, is not the case. I could lower who knows what, 30 or 50 municipalities, in which the value of the property is covered by the tax, which enters the municipal budget, and how small and no income would provide for the development of these municipalities. That is why I think it is appropriate, and I would like my colleagues from the DS to be present for this session, and that I should say, at this moment in the developed environments in relation to the small underdeveloped, we can take that small part of the cake Mr. Hranislav Peric and some other MPs to meet this year's growing needs of citizens in those small areas, and it will not hurt Belgrade much, nor Nis, and I don't know if anyone suggested anything similar to New Sad, etc. Finally, to say the following, we really must do everything both as MPs and as Assembly, including all the relevant ministries, to welcome the next distribution with clear laws and criteria for the distribution of these funds, although we cannot be romantic and expect too much from such criteria. It takes so much that the total budgets of local communities instead of 112.6 billion dinars in 2006 would be small even if it were for a hundred billion more. This is about one quarter of the total republican budget, i.e. some public spending collected in the Republic budget. So 112.6 billion were projected for 2006 and all the budgets are worth on the basis of all the revenues, and those that are the original revenues of the local community and those that are indirectly derived from these funds. (President: Time. In conclusion, I would also like to ask Mr Aligrudić, who has come out, and Mica Albianić, but also you, Mr President, let us try to make an agreement to make adjustments that have been proposed to the amendments and I don't think we would do anyone any harm, and we would do a great deal for these small municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24100	Thank you very much, Mr. Todorovic. Does any other MPs group want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24101	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have here one of the laws that local self-governments, or most often the president of municipalities, are very much following, and this is about the transfer funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget to be distributed to local self-government. One of these concepts of helping local self-government is not entirely correct, and that is because there is no clear key that these funds will be distributed. On the other hand, the funds provided for by this law alone are not enough for all municipalities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia to settle at least their basic needs. Most municipalities are in an extremely difficult financial situation, to the extent that they don't even have the basics of civilizational fluid in municipalities. I'm not going to list the municipalities right now. I don't want anyone to think I'm trying to rip off some part of the money to add that money to someone else. The fact is that a large number of municipalities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia do not have water or sewerage. Then we're talking about some European integrations, and most of our municipalities can't even make an idea solution, let's say, for garbage dumps, let alone a project. They're not even able to do that. On the other hand, the Republic also behaves easily when it comes to its budgets, even said wasteful. Here, now we have a counter-guarantee law here and someone says yes, but it's only if whoever took the loan doesn't pay back the money, in which case the Republic will have to pay for it. That's one credit user who really has money on the line. What is important is that the funds that the counter-guarantee stands blocked in the account of the Republic of Serbia's budget and as long as it does not repay the loan, they must stand there. Maybe a part of that would be channelled to local self-government, to solve problems like plumbing, like sewers. This is how our local self-governments just exist in the sense that they provide salaries, most local self-government, not those rich, for workers in the municipal administration and to provide some kind of infrastructure for primary and secondary school education. So that's the only way they exist, that's all they can do, not to live, not to advance, not to invest in municipal infrastructure, not to make life easier for the citizens, but to live. Then we have a situation that from such municipalities there is migration to these richer municipalities, because there is simply no progress. Let's say, the thought directory is toplification, central heating, etc. On the other hand, the Republic of Serbia is reopening some agencies, which are also budget users. Now we have a situation that, as the finance minister likes to say, I won't even tell him my name, he likes to say that for the first time in the draft budget and surplus bill. Do these surplus funds have to be exclusively directed towards obtaining new loans, and this credit for public enterprises that will be privatised in the privatisation process? So someone who's going to buy that company, first they're going to give us a loan, we're going to give him a counter-guarantee, we're going to pay off the loan, and he's going to buy that public company at some reduced value. These are problems which, in principle, do not start from local self-government itself, but from here from the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thus, with one of these behaviors, we now have this debate and amendments like this submitted by some MPs who would like to, given the difficult situation in certain municipalities, that some more dinars are being mobilized. For example, it is already known that certain businesses, which are now in the jurisdiction of the republican authorities, will slowly move into the jurisdiction of local self-government, thus financing by local self-government. So local self-government will need more money. The kind of funding they've got right now they can't get it. What's it gonna be? That party that's in power is certainly, at least you've proven it since October 5th when you came to power, more money to direct those municipalities in which you participate or run the local government. That's what you can see from this proposal itself. So this government, which is supposed to be in favour of decentralisation, should also, but what decentralisation you can talk about when you insist on putting local self-governments to depend on the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia for this kind of law. It must find a brand-new model of funding for local self-government, that they can not only do what they are supposed to do by law, but be able to invest in a certain municipal infrastructure and attract a certain number of legal entities that would continue to develop that municipality, increase the number of employees, etc. Although some MPs have good intentions by submitting such amendments, they simply will not solve this problem. If any of their amendments can be accepted, it's only until the next transfer funds law. A new concept of funding for local self-government should be established, not laws like this being passed and individual local self-governments being blackmailed by such laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24102	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. National MP Zoran Krasic reported on the same amendment. I ask all MPs, not you personally, I have no doubt, that we are talking about the amendment, not about the amendment, because we had a principle debate about it. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24103	Mr Markovic, I will make sure that this is not a principle debate, although I would remind you of some principled unresolved issues of funding of local self-government and the concept of public finances that has come to life from Bozidar Djelic, which has ruined a good law on public incomes and public expenditures. That this law, now called the Law on the Budgetary System, is a bad proof and the fact that this regulation has been changed several times. Just to make a point of one thing that I think is very important to all these amendments concerning this bill. We did not deliberately report for the first amendment, but only after a few amendments, so that all those who submitted amendments to this bill would simply come out with their argument confirming our principled position on this issue and this bill. I guess now it's clear to everyone. You do not need to beg the presidents of the parliamentary groups to be present here and to influence their MPs. It has to end with the finance minister. He cheated on you. Last year he said, we're going by these criteria, we're changing next year. She came next year now, and he says, "This will be the last time." So it's all delayed again. By definition, these transfer funds should meet the needs of local self-government according to trusted tasks that the Republic has given them to act as first-degree authorities. You have well noticed that there is no clear criteria here, but that from the municipalities to the municipalities change the criteria, the priority of applying the criteria changes. You have well concluded that some of this amount corresponds to the settlement of the obligations of the Republic to local self-government on the basis of transferred transactions, but in many municipalities this amount exceeds the importance of entrusted transactions and represents intervention to a particular territory, according to a particular municipality, somewhere because it is underdeveloped, not because it is underdeveloped, but because there are other reasons. You've noticed, and I think it's a good concept that you've taken around these several larger municipalities, now they're called cities, so a little bit of there to bloat, to be given to the surrounding places where it's a lot. You can see for yourself that it can't pass. Why? Because there are no clear criteria. It was just said here, and this is also in the context of the bill's proposal, that public spending at the level of local self-government on the territory of the Republic of Serbia in 2006 should be 112.5 billion dinars. I don't want to do math, translate it into euro now, etc. It is a plan and it is well noted that there are all the funds of local self-government, and what is, by law, the original income and what are the transfer funds. Even the revenues of public enterprises of local interest are included, but this is the plan. As any plan can literally break through, we know that, we have a surplus at the end of this year. Why do we have a surplus? Yeah, he's virtual, but he's honest. It's shown in a way that some obligations aren't settled, so some plus that needs to be directed abroad, to get from BB minus to BB plus, as if that rating is so significant. You're free of ratings if the citizens are hungry, if they don't have a job. We'd better chase security for these basic living conditions, not for some indexed points abroad on some quotations, whether someone loves us or not. They don't like us, but you've cast that illusion on the citizens, so let everyone think about what's here and what's not true. So there's no principle. This principle does not exist either in the Law on Local Self-Government, nor exists in the Law on the Budgetary System, nor in other regulations that prescribe the work and conduct of local self-government authorities in matters within the competence of local self-government. Here we have two choices, 40% profit tax and a nominal amount of funds related to each municipality. It's those transfer funds. What is the original income and those that come on the basis of other activities of local self-government are in some ways limited, but not completely restricted. And it's a good thing they're not completely restricted, but it's a bad thing that the possibility of better obtaining public income based on these unlimited assets is narrowed down. Someone wanted to fool us at the beginning of this session and say that the key to solving these problems is a new regulation, and they still misstate the return of property to local self-government. I don't know how they imagined something coming back. When they saw that there was no constitutional basis faster and better, they withdrew the bill. What you've noticed is a fundamental injustice. Because of this injustice, the SRS did not want to submit any amendments to this bill, because in the absence of criteria, we would not know why this city is being denied so much and so much and given to a smaller place. Because if we had submitted the amendment, anyone could come up with another argument and cancel what we said, because in conditions where there is no principle or the principle changes from place to place, when there are no criteria or impose some criteria, just for a particular place as a comparative advantage over others, then we don't want to participate in that game. So they promised you that they would solve this issue in principle with regard to criteria and criteria. The one who promised you his promise to keep that promise.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24104	Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Hranislav Peric has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 3a be added after Article 3a. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. National MP Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24105	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Markovic, you have led your Rules of Procedure to have 25 MPs in the room and to whom to explain my amendment. Please give a break, invite MPs, or at least have the heads of Parliament, make sense of what I'm going to talk about. So I've said that over and over again for this pay phone, but you're pushing it the way it is, even though you've made several promises to change the Rules of Procedure. When there was a budget debate, I asked for an item for underdeveloped municipalities to be introduced into the budget. At the time, the government had no ear to accept it and put it into the budget, and now we're in a situation where the government or the minister, I don't know who, individual committees, say that in this way they can't allocate funds, they can't get out of the current reserve, but I'll explain it later. I support Mr Krasic, he told one truth, that since the Democrats came and this funding was introduced by Minister Djelic, he has taken all the money from the municipalities and is now divided into a spoon to whom you give as much. I have submitted an amendment to be made after Article 3. The bill adds a new Article 3a, which reads: "The municipalities that have a status underdeveloped under the law (33 most underdeveloped municipalities in the Republic) are determined by additional transfer funds in 2006 at the level of 10 million dinars per municipality, and on the burden of the current budget reserve... "The amendment proposes to determine additional transfer funds for 33 extremely undeveloped municipalities in the Republic, which are becoming increasingly underdeveloped each day, only increasing differences compared to developed environments. Additional transfer funds would only ease the catastrophic economic situation in municipalities such as Merošina, Žitorajja, Doljevac, Kursumlija, Medvedja, Lebane, Bojnik, Crna Trava, Trgovište, Bosilegrad, Gadjin Han, Svrljig and other municipalities of up to 33. Without the additional resources of this municipality, they can hardly function at all. Local self-government cannot provide citizens with even minimal needs. For example, in these municipalities, it is necessary in an adequate way to provide for the needs of citizens living in these parts, which is treatment, education, transportation to displaced villages, water, electricity, roads, so that the population goes away, and these areas remain uninhabited and released. I've been talking about this, and I've been making my proposal, talking to everyone. The minister says he can't get out of the budget reserves. These funds can't be allocated to underdeveloped municipalities. In private conversations, when you talk to Minister Dinkic and when you say he made a mistake or that it's not good that the small funds were set up by these weak and poor municipalities, he says, let me give you from the budget reserve in the second part. So it can go black, it can't go on paper. All I ask is that we put it on paper, introduce a new member, get 33 underdeveloped municipalities to get 10 million each, that's only 330 million; 330 million per 500 billion, divided by Minister Dinkic and out of his pocket wherever he can, there's no money. In this budget, 330 million can always be found, these are small funds, but we have 33 undeveloped municipalities, with rural areas, with mountain-mounted areas, that they can only improve the living conditions on their own ground for a little while. I might be convinced it's true what the minister said, but the other day he was on TV. He's going to Saturday, he's going to the cities, they're probably his authorities there, and he says I'm going to give you 20 million for this 80 million, so he says on the cover -- he's being watched by TV, I'm going to give you 200 million. I don't know who's right here, who's making the bills, who's voting, who's making the budget, whose budget is, if it's in the Serbian Parliament, if it's Dinkic, if it's his, it's not supposed to go to the assembly. Let him give where he can and he won't be long, no one's burned till dawn. So I think we here in the Assembly need to vote, this is the right proposal, to define 10 million for 33 municipalities in Serbia undeveloped, and to give the minister the task of finding money. In this case, the Serbian Parliament would prove to be the largest institution in the country. If we don't do it, if someone says it in the debate, that we can't do it without a minister, then you really don't know who he chooses, who he accounts for, etc. We should give the minister the task of finding out where he knows and sharing these poor municipalities.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24106	Anyone else by the same amendment? Here you go, Mr. Avramov. I cannot accept the urge to do the opposite to the Rules of Procedure, as I cannot influence whether the meaning of someone's exposure will depend on how many people look at him from the O.R. or worse from their MPs' clubs. I have no way, the Rules of Procedure clearly defines, the Rules of Procedure have been voted by the Assembly and the President of the Assembly can only work on it. Here you go, Mr. Avramov.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24107	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to add this amendment to Mr. Peric's further findings to these 33 undeveloped municipalities in Serbia to say that there are 13 devastated municipalities in Serbia and that these 13 devastated municipalities have met, that they have made one text of the declaration, that this text of the declaration has been sent to the Republic government, has sought certain privileges, which objectively exists as a possibility. But it was somewhere in June this year. Until today, we have received no response from the Republic Government. It means that the Republic government doesn't think about these municipalities, about people in these municipalities at all, and about these underdeveloped municipalities. We know that the south of Serbia is quite underdeveloped and we know that it's very difficult to run there we don't know what, but the government is there in that direction to think and to start something in these municipalities, but I just wanted on behalf of these 13 devastated municipalities to say that these municipalities were washed up, destroyed by the previous government that was. Among these municipalities is the municipality of Shyd from which I come, I attended that text declaration and we signed that declaration, but here until today we didn't get any response from the Republic Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24108	National MP Hranislav Peric, according to the Rules of Procedure, reported. Here you go, Mr. Perry. Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24109	Mr. Markovic, you're in your old manner again, when someone tells you the truth, and then you take it to comment. You're teaching me now, like I've been since yesterday, who I am, who I am, who I am, who I am, who I am, who I am, who I am, who I am, where I am, who I look from. It's your old story. When you explain it all, no one else in Serbia understands what you said. So, once again, I ask you, there should be a little order here, and you as chairman, when I chair any meeting, I lead the order of how many people there are, if there are a few people, I postpone that session, there's no one to talk to, 20 people out of 250, we run a session. I agree that this assembly has adopted your Rules of Procedure, which is called "Markovic's Rules of Procedure", but you are here when you explained, telling us songs and stories about how you will rarely use it in certain cases alone, and you do it every day. You haven't held the presidency all day. As soon as I saw you this afternoon, I knew you were going to extend the session, like you were working on a second shift. Therefore, please, it would be better not to comment on these questions, because no one will go out without reason and make any remarks if there is no such remark. Let me repeat again, you can talk out loud, say -- the very discussion that's interesting, the way people look at it. By that I don't know who would look at who if they were seen. But it is essential that at least one-third of the MPs here be, so that if someone has an emergency job, someone has to leave, that they know what this is about, what it is, that it is clear to everyone when we sit down to vote. A lot of dots pass that no one knows alive in the hall what they vote for, etc. So, I think I've made myself clear and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24110	According to Article 28, my duty as president of the Assembly and anyone who holds the presidency is not to comment, but to give clarification, especially when people can be confused. When you ask a question, expect an answer. So MPs are able to be following from the session, either from clubs, or from TV, or after getting to know each other in detail through a stenogram, because they are available, they are familiar with the views of all those who are interested in them, and they are making a decision about how they will vote. The president of the assembly cannot force anyone to listen or read, and he has to work on the Rules of Procedure, and of course I believe that every moment you turn around, he sees at least half of Serbia. And I express my admiration for it. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of a commitment to the Republic Fund for Pensions and INVALID OBLIGATION OF PUBLIC ASSESSMENTS OF PUBLIC AUTHORITIES BASED ON THE BASE OF UNPAYMENTAL PARENTS AND MONEY REFERENCES (SPECIFICS) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs on the draft law: Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Momir Marković, Nemanja Sarović and Zoran Krasic. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24111	Mr. President, it's not the complete synopsis you're reading. You didn't tell me what the government's response was. I need you to tell me immediately where the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia are and why they are not present. First of all, Mladjan Dinkic, who cheated on pensioners in Serbia and for the first time published the dynamics that followed, therefore, such a defined legal project followed only after the pucks he received from the IMF after months of stretching. It's something that the SRS and pensioners in Serbia can't accept at all. It is amazing, Mr Markovic, that you insist that in the face of this number of MPs in the Assembly hall, we begin the debate on the return of debt to pensioners in a way, I repeat again, unacceptable, not only for Serbian radicals, but for all pensioners in Serbia, because the minister deceived them, by the way, Kostunica and the whole government, and that you can see that neither the minister is here nor that you could begin the debate in detail without telling me what the government's response is in this sense. However, it would be best if, according to the Rules of Procedure, I am speaking in principle, the Government has delivered or not its written report, it is usually reports in which the refusal of amendments is repeated from one amendment to another, from MPs, to come nicely to the minister, to face views, arguments, and to see where and how funds will be allocated in 2006 and why this deadline and how dynamic, which, by its amendment, first and foremost in Article 1, is required to change, and first Mrs Radeta and Mr Krasic - according to the newly established dynamics, which we propose, which is much more acceptable and for which she certainly has funds in the budget of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Mladjan Dinkic's hypocrisy, and therefore all of you who support him, since you adopted him, after several days of straining and transmuting as regards the parliamentary majority and replacing MPs, the budget, to tell us that the dynamics of paying out the pensioners must take place by 2008. If, and we talked a lot about it in the 2006 draft budget law, the minister himself has repeatedly pointed out and last year boasted that the surplus this time of 21 billion, something that for every commendation, compared himself to Pachu, and with the greats of Serbian finance, which is impossible, it only speaks of him, ran for the Nobel Prize, then he came and insulted the MPs and made various incidents, did Mr Markovic, in your opinion, after all that that had happened in the last days, justifiable that there was no minister here when he talked about the law in particular and about our intention. I'm starting with Article 1 and we're going to continue with a completely altered dynamic, because we think it's necessary for pensioners. (Petar Jojic, from the place: He must not come.) Here, the MPs say - he can't come. Not only can he not come to the Assembly in front of the MPs, he's being followed here by security, he's coming as a minister, he's being rude. Now let's put this whole incident aside, but the question is, where is he supposed to be in which retirement club and where the pensioners are gathering to show up? Let it come to Kragujevac, Pogorjevac, Pančevo, anywhere, let it tell the pensioners why the original intention has been changed, why the deadline has been extended and how it is possible that the category of residents, which belongs to the poorest people in Serbia, is thus suggesting that the debt be paid to them. Instead of the proposed solution that, from the day of the first payment in December 2005, it will reportedly be 24 December, meaning that in less than 10 days, this deadline and dynamics will be completed by July 2008, due to the budget surplus, due to the wasteful relationship with the budget and because, not only of the way to find savings in the 2006 budget to pay off the pensioners' debt, but may, when the government is responsible, when the household, which is certainly not, and this behaviour certainly does not present Mladjan Dinkic, be done with a strategic project to help not only pensioners, and for the faster payment of this debt, as I propose to the amendment that I submitted to the SRS parliamentary group, so until October 2006, with clear dynamics and precise dates, as my colleague Krasic anticipated in his amendment. A programme for the partial elimination of poverty in Serbia could also be developed. It is almost, according to the latest data and the table I have ahead of me, now leveled in all parts of Serbia, even in Vojvodina, in which incomes from agriculture and income from other species are higher, this poverty is much more pronounced than in October 2001. It is this display that I have and this research that the group of economists in Serbia has been talking about -- that the level of poverty among pensioners, and not only among pensioners, but among our oldest populations, are people over 60 and over, especially over 65, with 17% in 2001 now reaching 28%. Is it normal for the minister to ignore amendments by parliamentary groups that want to protect pensioners and to point out to Serbian citizens that in the adopted 2006 budget and that it has the opportunity to pay off the debt more efficiently, therefore, faster dynamics. If you look at how the entire poverty of Serbian citizens is viewed today and how much is increased, here, by 10% among pensioners, or older people from over 65 years of age, and among the entire population in the country, you will see that this movement is drastic because the number of unemployed is, instead of reducing, growing, because of all the laws adopted in the period from 2001 to today. And because pension, as an acquired category, for our oldest consumer population in the part when it comes to food, when it comes to basic provisions of life, of as much as 57%. All the rest are high utility fees, the most expensive electricity price in the environment, and about medicines, clothes, clothes, everything that should be entered into some normal category of household consumption, today the average pensioner in Serbia can't even think. Those who receive the average pension, which is somewhere now on the level and will be for this payment, therefore, without the first part of the default debt, about 12,000 dinars, include the malts in the rich pensioners compared to those who, and you often hear it when they announce the day of payment to the so-called. National television, as it is said, was such information, it seems to me, for the last month -- the minimum amount on the check will be slightly less than 6,000 dinars, and there are even those who receive three thousand dinars of the total amount of two parts of the pension in Serbia. So, those who are on average have 10.5 to 12.5 thousand dinars, even wealthy pensioners, because pensions are insufficient, according to the statistics of the Republic Statistics Office, to cover the minimum of the minimum, maybe about 20 percent, calculate, if I said that 57 percent is just for food, what a pensioner has to do to feed himself. When this law was announced for a session that is under way, I received a telegram from an employee in the Assembly here at the desk outside the hall, a group of pensioners from Belgrade signed. I don't have that telegram in my hand right now, and I apologize to the respected pensioners who asked me to say this, when I say this, if in some part I paraphrase what they wrote with a telegram, but they told you from the authorities, Mladjan Dinkic and Vojislav Kostunica about the following -- that for the upcoming Christmas and New Year's holidays, you would honor them with two decilitres of wine, which will drink in their health and in the health of your loved ones, but by the way, you would insert some of the poisons in them, so as soon as you finished with them and get rid of yourself. First of all, it's a message for Mladjan Dinkic, they wrote it in a telegram, so you know that you don't have to think at all about paying them, and especially not in this way and in this dynamic, pension. When people came into the situation, and one of the ladies who signed when it was written that it was a group of pensioners, she said to herself that she spent her whole life in education, and that she now fell to the lowest possible branches as a pensioner, that she had nothing to live on and to eat in expensive Belgrade, as is Kragujevac, Vranje, Piroth and Subotica, everywhere is expensive, because it's amazing that with such low incomes she lives and survives for more than a few days. Then you can imagine how much cynicism is present with Minister Dinkic when he suggested something like this to us, and what a hypocrite it is, and what the impudence of the entire Republic government boasting of the surplus in the budget is, and it is not able to pay off the debt much faster. And not only that, but the way pensions started to be accounted for since the end of 2002 and the backlog that was created in the meantime clearly says that for the previous Dossian government, just like for this Kostunica and Mladjan Dinkic, who conducts the financial continuity of Bozidar Djelic, pensioners are today, and these exact figures speak about it, this is the poorest category, the rejected category, they do not want to think about them. And of course, I'm going to take the opportunity and when we talk about much more backlogs of farmers' pensions, to point out something else from these devastating data, and they're clearly talking about not only being poor, but from this government, I repeat, being left behind. And that, as the talker said, but of course in a superior attitude and position relative to the inferior Mladjan Dinkic, from the IMF, for her and for the IMF, one of the few questions is the issue of pensions in the way they determine it, presented it, Dinkic unconditionally accepted it. It cannot be accepted by the SRS, nor by pensioners in Serbia who expected something else. Thank you. Any other parliamentary groups on this amendment? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24112	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. We are considering all amendments under this law in accordance with Article 139(5). Rules of Procedure. Here you go. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24113	Mr Markovic, we were at that point in the agenda where we promised the citizens of Serbia and the president of the G17 Plus Group to deliberately tell the President that we were having a debate over this bill under the SRS amendment system, 15 minutes of SRS, 15 minutes of talking about it G17 plus, to prove what I was paraphrasing during the principle debate whether it was one-sixth or one-third bigger. For the sake of the public, only to find out that the SRS, with a group of MPs present in the hall, is ready for one such debate, but we have no minister, nor his assistants, nor Mr Albianic as a representative of the parliamentary group, we do not have any other person who is authorized to discuss this. It's not a distraction for me, I'm going to fence myself right now, but if we've made a promise, if we've spoken with a lot of emotion in the principle debate, if with a lot more emotion, everything that the SRS represents is challenged, then the elemental right, political gentlemanhood and chivalrousism require that on this battlefield here, the actors remain here to fight with attitudes and words. Apparently, there's some other reason or something to interfere with, and angry warriors aren't present. I have to announce the SRS' position at first, but also make a notice. To pay off the debt, it doesn't take the law. So, this bill doesn't depend at all on whether the first pension check is going to come just a pension for that month or if there's something else that needs to mean that some debt is slowly coming back. That's got to be clear for everyone. Secondly, in two months' time, the epochal law is changing, and the first text and today's text, which we're talking about, has only the function of stopping the litigation of those who would initiate the procedure to carry out a verdict, which requires the PIO fund to pay off on behalf of the debt what is a lagging pension. I just have to say that last time that law was passed, we were just asking that equal pensioners farmers and pensioners be employed. We have not entered the concept, because we have calculated that this is a serious proposal by a serious authority that long-term considers the stability of the country's economy, the financing of the country, with numerous objections that there are some priorities. What really irritates any normal judgment is the fact that we've been talking here for a few months now about a terrible surplus. The surplus means that there is an excess income over expenditure and that positive difference is surplus. Probably according to some logical laws, not this new mathematical, surplus can only exist if there's practically no debt. If there is debt, then all someone wants to represent as a surplus must be reduced by the amount of debt, so if something remains, what little remains is surplus and there is no problem that little remains going on to pay off some of our liabilities to abroad. Probably these internal obligations, these internal debts in such an economic and social mile have priority over some of the obligations that exist towards international financial organisations, resulting in interest and some virtual money, or virtual obligations, that is, unwarranted and green-based debt that has been greatly increased. Now that the concept of this law is changed, I ask an open question, if some debt is converted into a public debt, and the way the pensioner's claim is settled by precisely determining the dates when the debt will be paid in cash, is this the public debt law? This is a reprogramming law, and it's not a public debt law. In order to be a public debt law, it takes some responsibility. This is not where the state owes itself. This is where the state doesn't issue bonds, securities of value, it just says, what we owe today we'll settle in some deadlines, with exactly certain dates or months when some part of the debt will settle down. This is not a law on amendments and additions to the Public Debt Act. This is a brand-new law that should have a title, a law on reprogramming debt towards pensioners on the basis of outstanding pensions from the previous period. But they won't sit down and discuss this. At first, I must say, the debts started the moment when perhaps 18 or 19 years ago at the time of the PIO S.I.E.L.D., under pressure at that time, made a decision that the amount of three-month pensions that were held as reserves for God's war, an elemental disaster, came up, and soon thereafter the pension payment went back. At that time, about four pensions were out of state, but one process could not be stopped, and the process is called that a growing number of employees must provide funds for pensions and for an increasing number of pensioners. 20 years ago there was a signal that PIO had to change from the ground up. We're the only ones who are late. Now let me go back to the amendment. With this amendment, I propose that practically debt be paid, we are in the field of laws relating to formerly employed pensioners, return within a year, but in six wars, and that this period of delayed settlement be covered by an interest rate, which would be determined by the rate of rise of prices at a monthly level from the moment of the commitment to the day of payment. It's incomparably more favourable for pensioners, because it keeps the value of capital, money, not what's proposed. You've had a chance to hear about this and probably one of my colleagues from the SRS, since there are more amendments concerning Article 2 to specifically indicate what the government has proposed to be 8.5%, etc. Now the dibidus has no one from G17 plus, there's not even those, there's nothing to say. That math that a sixth was bigger than a third had actually suffered defeat. Right away, let me point to the MPs of power and the public, in what the SRS is proposing there are no big promises, in what the SRS is proposing there is nothing incorrect from the viewpoint of the positions of the existing government. There's no big math, no illusions, nothing unreal or anything that can't be touched. There's only persistent follow-up to what's the government's finding. The government found a surplus, the government found that it wanted to return, the government found that it needed a regulation that would stop any court disputes and expose them to unnecessary costs. Right now, if someone doesn't get me wrong, I don't plead that pensioners are suing, right now, let's be clear, because like our courts, it's hard to achieve in a fast period, and a large number of pensioners who have a low income of every penny based on debt returns mean a lot. I want to point very objectively to the current situation, because probably in a few months the SRS that will be in power will have the same situation, so it wouldn't be good if someone called me back, you promised from the pay phone, and now you're telling us it's not possible. We promise what is possible and what is recognised by this government. That's why at first I said, the first time you proposed this law in September, we only submitted an amendment to status-equate debt repayment, pensioners employed and farmers' pensioners. We didn't go out of this at all. Why? Because there's no trustees' priority. He exists in bankruptcy proceedings, and this is not about bankruptcy proceedings. All credentials are basically the same. If this adds respect for human rights and rights and obligations imposed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on mandatory PIO and the state guarantee for the functioning of that insurance, then it is clear that and then we did not seek anything outside constitutional and legal frameworks. We said it didn't make sense for someone to brag about the surplus without having unsettled obligations. So, according to this amendment, payment would start in December 2005 and that would be the first war, one-sixth, and the last war in October 2006. What did the government suggest? She proposed that the first war be in December 2005 and the last in July 2008. It's probably easy to determine that it's a huge difference. For what we suggest that within less than 12 months, between us, and for 12 months, this debt, which the government claims exists, is a surplus, means there is a source. The SRS gives you consent and approves that this year's budget surplus is not directed towards the IMF but according to these obligations that the state has towards pensioners. The state is guaranteed to operate this insurance. The state said, in the image and part of the finance minister, that there are 40 and I don't know how many billion surpluses, it seems to me, but I do know that the amount is certainly greater than that prescribed by this law. If there's that surplus, and the state doesn't know where to spend it, so let's give the IMF and pay back the debts, we suggest you and we empower you and vote you to do it if you need to talk to them, but you need to know that you're talking to them, that you scare them, if we don't pay off these pensioners, they're gonna take us out of power, and you know there's gonna be unrest. You see how across the street, across the Drina and Sava these over here, and how that Ustasha lobby works. They immediately raise the temperature, raise the people etc, and the EU says, "Maybe Mesic falls," even Mesic had to attack Ustasha, if you noticed. Ustasha attacks Ustasha to preserve the state and preserve its stability. You can't compare with them if you want. That's a different story. But you have to talk to the IMF in a different way, to say: we appreciate it to you to get some money back, but please, the priority generation that lives in these, these and these conditions. When we pay them all back, nothing more important will fix their material, economic and social programme. You have SRS support. I get the impression that it is not to be helped, but to wish to punish those who have not voted for these parties now in power for years.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24114	Any other MPs? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24115	It is true, colleague Krasic, that you have proposed to the representatives of the party G17 and Minister Dinkic, when we speak in detail of this law, that we could make a verbal duel here, that every amendment be discussed for 15 minutes, that everyone should use their time. I have to remind you that the representatives of the G17 plus party are celebrating their three-year anniversary today since they're probably at the fourth item of the agenda now, since we heard what their agenda looks like to celebrate this anniversary. The first point is to place the president's account for the past period, the second point is to address one of the present, the third point of the agenda is to bake (the lamb, pigs and fish), the fourth point is to drink of choice and afinity, the fifth point of music, song and game and the sixth point of various. So it looks like, here you can see that this is an invitation to the G17 Plus party. I guess they're at this point four right now, that's choice-and-affinding, and that's why they don't care that the MPs today are discussing this bill, which they've been talking about these days, that when the pensioners, when this law is passed, will be much better. Then Mladjan Dinkic made an incident in the National Assembly, with one single goal, which is to prevent SRS MPs from talking about the bill both in principle and in particular. Of course, he didn't do it, and he never will. That's why we keep going. We said a lot about this law in principle, now we're talking about amendments. What is the essence of this amendment and of all amendments to the SRS? Since this is about the law amending the law that's here as some kind of epochal, revolutionary law passed two months ago. It is indeed a precedent in European Parliamentism, that a law so big a bell is advertised to bring, to announce to the pensioners that they will live much better. Then suddenly it is realized that the law is not so good and that they are now offering pensioners something better, that what is scheduled to be paid as back-up pensions, that it is now being extended by July 2008, so whoever survives might benefit from this. I guess the deadline was extended by Minister Dinkic and other members of the Serbian government, because they were afraid it would be bad for them to get used to pensioners eating every day. If they had given them this in a shorter time, maybe people would have gotten that bad habit. So Minister Dinkic here boasted of a surplus. Minister Lalovic came probably in exchange for his colleague, although we will talk about your laws another day. So Minister Dinkic boasted here to the MPs of some major surplus. All in Serbia know how much privatisation in Serbia has been made during this period, how much of these privatisations have gone or at least had to go to the pension fund. We all know, they say on TV and in the newspapers, here for a pay phone, ministers, representatives of the ruling coalition, also, that there is money in Serbia on all sides, but I just don't know for what reasons that money won't give to those to be given, which is in this case the pensioners. A special story is why there was a difference between the pensioners who gained that status as former farmers and those who were employed. Why aren't they in the same position when it comes to paying this debt, no minister here has answered us, even though we have asked the ministers who represent these laws. We, by amendment, and by this which I have submitted to other colleagues, wanted to shorten and expect from the minister that this deadline should be reduced to paying these back-up pensions, and in essence, we think that these back-up pensions, that this is not such a large number and a large amount of money, that it should not have been divided into wars at all, but that it should have been paid once. Why didn't we propose that to the amendments? Just because we expected the ruling majority to participate in the work and that more than four people, as much as they are here today, would be sitting in this room. We expected them not to say, well, you're doing a demagogue story, it's impossible to pay all of a sudden. That's why we said something that was supposed to be acceptable, and we thought it was acceptable for the government, and so would the pensioners. People are used to barely surviving anyway. They could use some money as soon as possible. What is foreseen in the bill that the first war of one-sixth will be won in December 2005, I think it is clear to everyone that this law does not allow them to do so. There's another problem. Two or three days of talking here and every night on Karic's TV we listen and watch Albianic talk about how because of the SRS, our MPs can't pay back pensions to pensioners. Of course, it's a lie. It's the biggest lie and deception, because there's no reason to retire and now pay off the debts the state has towards them without this law. What public debt, what law? Does the state know she owes as much as she owes? Why would the law settle its debt? Of course, there's no interference, they can go free and we'll commend them for doing the right thing, so they've given people what they really belong to. No state should be able to make what people haven't earned and that they shouldn't have won for a long time. Of course, another story needs to be made, to draw the public's attention from what really is the essence. That's why these days you can hear it on TV, mostly in Karic and others, all that's heard about paying off these pensions. Before this, all the newspapers were full of stories about how the pensioners would get their backs in six wars and the poor people were convinced that six wars meant six months, and they were all convinced that in six months they would get those back pensions, because that's six wars, and that six wars actually meant three years from now. So Mladjan Dinkic and the government of Vojislav Kostunica are calculating how many pensioners will die in those three years, which is from age, which is from disease, which is unfortunately from hunger. The fact is, that's what's happening in Serbia. I asked in the principle debate, I expected the minister to tell us, and you, Minister Lalovic, have this information, to tell us how many thousands of pensioners in Serbia live with 4,000 dinars, how many live with pensions between 4,000 and 6,000, how many live with a pension of over 6,000. You keep telling us, whoever leaves the government or the ruling coalition, everyone's telling us about some average pension of, I think, 12,500 dinars, like I don't know what kind of money they are. Who can live with 12,000? But come on, 12,000 versus 4,000 is some money. You keep talking about something that your statistics calculate, about a pension that's an average pension. You don't talk about people who have three times less than the average pension and don't talk about how these people are going to pay for electricity, which Dinkic says won't pick up before April, so we're still two or three months away. And we know earlier that as soon as the ministers start talking that something won't pick up to some deadline, that it's just psychological preparation that people don't surprise themselves when they read in the morning in the paper how much they've accumulated, and then how much oil they've accumulated at the time of the big Christmas post, at the time of Christmas glory that's up to Christmas and what they're after, how much sugar they've accumulated, how much coffee they've bought. We're not going to let those pensioners, our parents, our grandfathers, and not talk about meat, that minister, the one who's worried about health, say they should eat half a kilo of fruit a day, so at least if they could, and they don't even need a vaccine, half a kilo of fruit, he just didn't say where they're going to buy half a kilo of fruit per man. So what we are saying in the SRS is really our principled attitude towards pensioners, towards people we think respect all the attention of states and societies, because these are people who have spent their working lives building, in very difficult times. Of course it's never been harder than it is now, especially for pensioners, it's never been harder and they know it well. And not to mention the demagogue story we showed at the time when we were in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when Vojislav Seselj, as Deputy Prime Minister, proposed and accepted the payment of pensions through bonds to pay for electricity, and then those who were opponents said it was not a good solution. It's not funny, you do something like that, so people will be grateful to you, because now they can't even pay for electricity, not buy basics, not for food, not for life at all, and it's really scary for me to talk about people like that, because I know people who live like that, or survive, have family members who unfortunately can't help them, they've lost their jobs thanks to so-called. Democratic changes, or they work somewhere for a salary of 9, 10 or 12 grand, and then they can only cry with their old parents together. It's a reality in Serbia, everything else is your stories, boasting with some surplus, with some big money, you've taken everything alive to the people you can take. You've taxed everything that can be taxed, and Serbian citizens pay taxes on the water, and you can't get out of that name, which you're boasting about, to single out, and at least to the poor to cheer up these pensioners, the people who really deserve it, to get some money so that at least here's Christmas and the holidays that are about to come they can celebrate at least once as people, because they've forgotten what these better times look like for them. So, don't just like these, whose minister was supposed to represent this law, which is going today and these days after Backo Palanca to measure people's pressure and carry around the houses of coffee and sugar to get some vote Sunday in the elections, don't, it's not the solution, it's not the people. They will not be insulted by the government, they will not be insulted by the parties' dignity. They have no money, but they have dignity, which is why, of course, they will vote for the SRS on Sunday, as they will vote in the next republican elections, because we certainly offer them the life of a decent man, not what you put them into. Unfortunately, there are more and more well-dressed people by the container, dressed nicely because they have a wardrobe from other times, but they can't be eaten. Unfortunately, it's terrible to say and look at these people, but it's a reality in Serbia thanks to so-called. democratic governments from 2000 to today.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24116	Does any other parliamentary group want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24117	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS advocates the maximum adoption of the amendment and the insistence of the SRS when it comes to pensioners. I repeat what our MP, the Witch of Radet, has said, is not demagogy. When you look at Article 2. The bill, on the other hand, compare the argument that the debt obligation has been made in the amount of 23 billion and 500 million dinars, ladies and gentlemen, I doubt that amount. In fact, there hasn't been a single word in the law since the debt started. If that debt came from a few years ago, five years ago, and here's Mrs. Radeta reminds me and corrects that debt came from a time of democratic power. If that's the case, gentlemen, if it's a debt from 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005, gentlemen of October 5th, then you're obliged to retire to any war to pay a legally tightened interest on it, as regulated by the Law on Liaison Relations. Only so much debt can be settled, only so much debt can be settled, because if the debt came from three years ago you were bound, Mr. Minister, and the Government and the Proposer to specify in the law that the war when it comes, to account for the tight interest, each month to credit interest to the principal and so on until the day of payment. At least I suppose you respect the provisions of the Bond Relations Act, at least that's how the law regulates debt settlement. So, I repeat, I doubt this amount, I think this amount is far greater, because there is no matter of interest from the day of maturity at all. In the bill of law, you propose to start payments from December 2005, but only since then is interest due. It can't be like that. That wasn't Milos Obrenović either. Milos Obrenovic, how he charged his debts. Here's just one example, if you'll excuse me. Milos Obrenovic was a servant in the village of Dobrosilica on Zlatibor near Aksa Žecmenica. One day he became Prince Milos in Kragujevac. And there came one day the Kyrjids of Zlatibor, and passed by the prince's court. The book sees from the window and asks one of them, "Come on, please tell me, where are these renters from? ". He says, "From Zlatibor. "From which village? "From Dobrosilica. "And do you know Aksa Pochmenica? "He says, "We know. "Where is he? "He says, "He's right there, his mare twisted the samar and spilled the tar. "Call him and let him come. "Akso Ecmenica came as the boss at the time, and his servant was Milos Obrenovic. Milos Obrenović asks him from the window, "Is Akso, are you? He says, "I did." "Do you know me, Akso? "He's enjoying it so much, ernically, goldiborically says, "Nok. "How come you don't know me, Akso, I'm Milos Obrenović." "Oh, so he doesn't know you, our sun." He remembered he was guilty. "Yes, Akso, but you owe me." He says, "So what? "You owe me 100 kilos of teeth, 30 groats and three pairs of socks. Akso, you won't leave Kragujevac until the debt is settled." There goes Aksa, after a few hours he comes and teaches to that guard of Obrenovic's villa, and the house, and the court in Kragujevac. He says Milos, "You see Akso, that's the way to behave, the debt has to be settled." When they took over the grain, and the horrors, and the socks, and Milos says, "Now Akso, when you've calmed down the debt, here's the Book of the Honor, because you've had damage, your mare spilled the tar, but it's important that you've calmed the debt." I have told you this in the way that illiterate Milos Obrenović treated the debt, as he gave it importance. Now I would also like to experience a million pensioners coming before our government, to have these pensioners come and ask the Prime Minister and his ministers - gentlemen of the Ministers, you will not leave here until you have settled your debt. Debt can't be delayed for 10 years. So the debt has to settle immediately. The ministers will say - how now? Now, now. Why? You have a 25.5 billion surplus. Is that right? There is. That's where you put it. Make up your debt. Secondly, here's a question for the finance minister -- is it true that we have 4.5 billion euros in foreign banks, is it true that foreign banks turn around, here's my colleague Arsic corrects me, 5.6 billion euros. Why would foreign banks turn and profit on torture and on this, as they say, a foreign savings on the torments of our citizens. Who authorized someone to deposit foreign funds with foreign banks? Why won't one billion euros of these funds be paid to pensioners? Why the difference between pensioners and farmers? The constitution says all citizens are equal before the law. Is that right, Minister? So our constitution norms, that all citizens are equal before the Constitution and before the law. There was no difference between regular pensioners from working relationship to farmers' pensioners. On the other hand, the SRS is asking for this debt to be paid in six wars. Pensioners need to pay off now, a large number of people are sick, and believe me, participations have been introduced, many have nothing to buy medicine for. Whoever doesn't have the cure to buy today to save his life, he dies. I'll only mention the situation in Panchev. A dying city. A city that has 130,000 inhabitants with surrounding villages, 1,500 people die from cancer annually because we have had the situation of bombing our country's enemies and occupiers; secondly, we have the most polluted technology in Europe, whose petrochemicals are being exported; 150m euros from Panchev are being exported annually, foreign exchanges and money are being taken, but the citizens of Panchev have no help. Today we had the Pancheva Community Assembly, we called the current government to settle the accounts. It is the first municipality in Serbia to have two billion and 300 million budgets, the first municipality including the four cities. Nothing is done in Serbia, they don't know where the money is. What are they doing? They give money to some banks and their friends to profit through them. It's a great evil, it's something the people didn't deserve. The people expected a better life in the October 5th elections. This isn't a demagogy. We're asking the president of the municipality - where's the money? Give us a report, give it to the citizens. Today, several hundred citizens arrived in the municipality of Pancheva and prevented the beginning of the municipal parliament. I know the situation in Panchev, I repeat, they have beds in the hospital, in that medical center of 1914, iron beds, they have blanket soldiers from that period. When our citizen gets sick in a panic hospital, except for the iron bed and that army blanket, he has to go and get it. They have nothing to buy drugs for. Why do pensioners need one time now, this isn't help, this is just a debt? That debt needs to be settled. This isn't a radical demagogy. Radicals live with these people, radicals now address the largest number of citizens. That's what we experience at every turn. Serious problems our citizens have. Pensioners whose pensions don't grow, that's the biggest problem. What SRS MP Verica Radeta, Mr Krasic, said was from the soul, because every day, in every street, every household, they are present and they hear the troubles of the citizens. Mr. Minister, take it upon yourselves, you can, to overcome this, to overcome it, to shorten the retirement procedure. It's not much money. What Ms. Radeta said was, and what Mr. Krasic said. If I were a minister, I'd either resign or give a condition to the government. I'm not going to settle some obligations and debts of the IMF, because that IMF is a NATO pact that has damaged this country 100 billion dollars and let's do a debt beating.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24118	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. He's got three and a half minutes left. According to the same amendment, Mr. Arsic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24119	Ladies and gentlemen, there is no creator of this law here, Minister Mladjan Dinkic. The SRS has submitted a number of amendments, and they are going, not as Mr Albianic said, at the expense of pensioners, but on the contrary, that the government's obligation to settle as soon as possible. The government of the Republic of Serbia and Minister Dinkic plan to wrap it up in July 2008. The amendments to the SRS should end in October 2006. So, in six equal wars. In the reasons of Minister Dinkic, who says he has money in the budget, but cannot pay back his debt to pensioners because there will be pressure on dinar stability and price stability. Supposedly, the debt to pensioners, if paid, will disrupt the relationship, or the stability of the dinars, will jump the euro. By the way, he claims he has 5.3 or 5.6 billion foreign exchange reserves, which is 2.6 times more than the total currency currently on the market. Then he teaches us how we don't know what foreign reserves are. They will be used exclusively here -- that 5.6 billion dollars -- as deposits in banks, on which we have extremely low interest rates or to cover an import lobby. It is only about 250m euros that this obligation for late pensions is settled. Calculate how much that is compared to 5.6 and how much euros it actually takes to cover that money, which would be in traffic. Extraordinary little. Furthermore, it's a ridiculous claim that it will affect price politics. Who cares that our pensioners can buy goods with a wide range of consumption. It seems Dinkic imagines where we live - in some dream country. On the contrary, they will have to pay the tax to him first, for they have nothing to do with it, they will have to buy medicine, they will have to pay electricity, they will have to pay utility services, they will have to pay for it, and they will not buy anything. So his arguments, why the pensioners for the late retirement to wait for six wars in the next three years, are ridiculous. Only with one such government, which is quite optimistic, as it is said in Article 4 of the law, which this amendment refers to, it said - in February 2007. I can tell Mr Dinkic from this pay phone, unless he accepts the amendments to the SRS, that he is very optimistic that he will pay off these pensions in February 2007.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24120	Thank you. Do any other parliamentary groups want to follow this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Please, the word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24121	I thank you, Mr. Markovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at least what few MPs are still at this point in the O.R., which, of course, refers specifically to the MPs of the ruling coalition, I think these three are present in the O.R., which is something that best shows what your concern for pensioners is, how sincere and honorable your intentions are, among other things, declaring when you put this law into the assembly procedure. Indeed, what was most evident in the interpretation of these laws, both in principle and now according to the amendments, is that none of the ruling coalitions or those who will also support this law and thus allow it to be passed, wants to go out for a pay phone and say anything about this law, to try to defend the solutions provided for in this legislative project in any way. It is clear now because they are aware that they would engage in the defense of something that is indefensible, because simply no one can find arguments that would justify such a solution, as you have suggested, in any way. In the very explanation of this law, you've said a lot of illogical things. One of the sentences says: "On the day of the law's entry into force, i.e. by taking over the obligation of the Republic Fund for PIO employees by the Republic of Serbia, created the conditions for the settlement of the debt from the Republic of Serbia's budget to the users of the right created by rioting pension payments etc." If the conditions have been met to pay the entire debt, then the question in itself is why you do not pay off the debt. We have heard quite a detailed explanation of Mr Krasic, and it is clear to everyone, you do not have to be a lawyer, that the state does not need any law to pay for what the citizens, or the pensioners who built this country, owe. As you well know, the state never passed a special law so that, what citizens owe it on any basis, even the same pensioners, would charge from them. That's why you have all the laws you need. You don't need anything further for that. Secondly, because of the urgency of passing this law and the positive effects that arise for the users of the rights under this law, there could be no analysis of the views of the interested parties. Did anyone need an analysis of the views of the interested parties at all? It's clear that you didn't even work on that analysis, because you know what kind of answer you'd come across. What pensioners need to know is that this law is suddenly extending the deadline that, according to the original law that you are now changing, which was passed some months or two ago, that deadline was too long; you are now and that period in which this debt will be paid off you are. It's about 1.5 outstanding pensions. The deadline you're proposing to pay us is as long as 32 months. So, from December 2005 to July 2008 -- 1.5 pensions, 32 months, when you divide it, you come to the fact that a month will be paid 0.04% of pensions. Is that the dynamics this government offers Serbian citizens? Are those democratic solutions? Is this another law that brings us closer to Europe, because it is usually for every law, unrelated to the area, the main explanation. In the absence of arguments, the easiest thing to say - this law leads us directly to Europe. It's this fast train that we just have to catch and it doesn't matter what we do with the pensioners, let's see what we do with these, which we count on in the next election to vote for us. It's completely past the Constitution, past the law, and this right to interest, which you hereby abolish the pensioners. I don't know who could have thought of such an idea that what you owe them for a few years with this law, you're not going to be counting interest, but only since the first payment, which will be in 2006, is the rate-calculation. It's another one of the scams you've prepared by passing this law. In your explanation, the law is passed by emergency procedure, so that the first war would be paid in December. As you know, the vote on this law is not scheduled until December 23rd. At the earliest of December 24th, it is possible for this law to be published in the Official Messenger, which means that, given that Article 5 of this law provides that it will enter into force on the eighth day of its publication, only 31 December of this year will the law enter into force. This clearly tells us that you were also aware that you were cheating on these pensioners and that they would absolutely not be paid in this year, but instead of having - 1/3 pensions to pay in January, in fact on 20 January 2006, you are now sharing that obligation. It will probably be this first war, or the first sixth, and the second war will not be delayed until July 2006. If you had done this analysis, as you say, of the positive effects, you would be forced to ask the pensioners, whether it's a little bit of misery that we owe you, or that first third of the pension we're going to pay, whether you want us to pay you at once or to pay you a share now, and a part in seven months. The question would be -- if it's a pension, for example, if it's about the lowest that's about four thousand dinars, so you're going to pay half of it in 2007, or somewhere around 2,000 dinars, your question should be whether, our dear pensioners, you want those 2,000 dinars on January 20, 2006, or you want to get a thousand dinars, and then in July, another thousand dinars. What do you think your pensioners would say? I think it's clear to everyone that each normal would take 2,000 dinars right away instead of a thousand dinars in a month and a thousand dinars in seven months. So what you're doing with this law is totally inappropriate. The second robbery that's under this law, which is what you want to legalize, is that you're suspending pensioners' interest rights. You have determined that for a complete period of time to which the debt applies, no interest will be charged to the full delay. Inflation is only about 20% in 2005, and you say in the law that since the first payment, which will be in 2006, interest will be calculated, and 8.5% on an annual basis. Where else does such interest exist? Answer here which interest you charge with the same pensioners when they give you, because you didn't give them your pensions, they don't pay in time the electricity. Then comes the legal tight interest, so in a year something that was a thousand dinars becomes two thousand dinars. You said well, you know what, we don't owe you any interest. Why did you not calculate interest from the day of maturity, then, from the moment you were obliged to pay your pensions, until the day of final payment, then fine interest on interest, as you do with electricity, so how much is it? So this is something that really represents the supreme hypocrisy of the government of the Republic of Serbia. You don't think your pensioners are capable of calculating interest, and that's why you're acting so arrogantly. Be assured that the time will come when this interest will be charged to you, and this fat one, they will account for it in your elections, and all that, be assured of it. You'd be better off if you hadn't done all this, if you'd just accepted the amendments to the SRS, if you'd been so proud of yourself, if I could remember 49 billion dinars well enough, to use it nicely for these people who deserved it a long time ago to pay those pensions, and our suggestion was that the first war would already be in December, so that people could spend some of it, somebody would be safe and famous, someone for a new year, someone for Christmas, who already loved and loved it. Instead, you chose to boast in front of the IMF, that Mladjan Dinkic and the rest of the government bomb all the information shows that it's been another year for us to make a surplus, and you simply ignore the fact that people have nothing to live on. A large number of these people won't even welcome that last war you predicted for July 2008 and that's the only situation for pensioners who made their pensions based on employment. The pensioners of farmers, completely against the constitution and against common sense, you separated them and you put them in an even more unfavourable category because you owe them 20 pensions. Instead of them, whose pensions are significantly less than these regular ones, because 20 pensions amount to about 20.5 billion dinars, while one and a half pensions for regular pensioners is 23.5 billion dinars, speed up those wars a little bit and end it in the next year or two days. So they're receiving pensions of a few hundred dinars, that's something that in no case would burden the state, as strong as you present Serbia today, it's some money that you'll keep who knows where. The question is, what are you going to do with those 49 billion surpluses, which bank you're going to hold them in? And now that these major financiers of yours, Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic have fought, how are you going to make quotas for the division of that surplus between them, will the Euroaxis bank be activated again, or will you now and once again be forced to open one? Even to the end, really, since this debate is coming to an end, I would like to tell Minister Lalovic and ask him practically not to go out for this pay phone anymore. I don't think it would be correct for us to explain these laws in principle and in particular, because Minister Lalovic is also an MP, it should be an additional argument to accept this proposal. I think at least it's incorrect not to be in the O.R. all the time, to come to an end, not to answer any question of MPs and then to go out here for a pay phone, probably before you entered the O.R., you gave a statement that would be broadcast in the Dnevnik of State Television, that everything was great, that flowers were flowering and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia continues to do wonders for pensioners. So, if you had any arguments, your duty was, both as Minister and as People's MP, to share these arguments with us, the MPs, to face our opinions, so that, however you wish and how much you will praise your laws. Now, I suggest that you remain consistent with what you've been doing so far, that you do nothing, that you don't abuse us, and the Assembly, and the pay phone, and the media, and the public journal, you've had the opportunity to say whatever was on your heart and on your mind, I don't think now is definitely any more time for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24122	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Does any other parliamentary group want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, whether or not the proposing's representative, Minister Lalovic wants the closing statement as referred to in Article 142. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Lalovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24123	I would like to address this law, first of all with the citizens of Serbia, an attempt to make personal diphmation, that's another matter. And what I want to say is this, there was one question, and to answer it immediately, one MP asked the question, how many pensioners with a pension of 4,000, 3,000 etc. Information for Serbian citizens. When in January 2006, the PIO law comes in less than a month, and we adopted it here two or three months ago, the lowest pension in Serbia will be around 6,400 dinars and will include 100,000 people. This means, I am giving my answer to the MP, that at this point less than 6,300 have 100,000 pensioners, out of the total of 1,200,000 employees of the PIO Fund. This first is information, that the citizens of Serbia know what numbers are and orderly size. That's what I was obliged to say, because the question was asked. As for these other objects or objections that are put here, a man can get the impression that it's best not to do anything. If nothing was done, probably some people would be happy. Independent of one's personal or group satisfaction, the government is working and will continue to work on the well-being of all layers of Serbian society and all citizens of Serbia. One of the very concrete things that we do with these laws and to point out, one-and-a-half pension delays or 20 pensions in farmers, is the delay that this government found when it came to this place and took responsibility in March last year for managing the country. What could we have done as Government? We did what was possible and the only thing that was possible. So, we have made commitments and I therefore propose this law to the Assembly, and I am sure that the law will be passed, I propose a commitment to the Assembly, the law, that this one and a half pension be legally determined to make the state of Serbia pay its citizens this obligation. It's not a mandatory government, it's a state of Serbia, and it's always a hindrance. Governments change and the state stays, the government acts in continuity. Each of the next governments assumes the commitments of the previous government. So it's a commitment of the Serbian state to pensioners, not these governments. The government only felt it was necessary for the state's commitment to meet it, and more importantly, it found a way to meet it. Many governments might want to do something, but they can't or can't. So this government has found a way to fulfill that obligation and since I am sure that this law will be passed in this assembly next week, if God gives health, then we will also be able to pay pensioners in Serbia, in addition to the regular pension they will receive for November, and a quarter of the pension of every pensioner. So it will be in some way a kind of congratulation of this government to pensioners in Serbia. In the follow-up to this activity and in the next period, according to the possibilities, without jeopardising Serbia's entire economic system, we will pay in due time and the way it is planned here. I'd like to remind you that one of the objections to the previous law is that it's paid in bonds, why it's not in cash. There was a story that some tycoons, various Serbian tycoons, would buy from the pensioners of these bonds, etc. I'd remind you, we've all heard these stories here. Meanwhile, the government decided to go to cash payments, and we think pensioners obviously think it's best for them. Both laws have two basic goals. It is one thing for the state to fulfil its obligation to pensioners, not the government but the state, I stress once again, and that often does not differ in Serbia and there is a difference. And the other reason why we have now suggested it is that, by skipping the delay that we have and having had with the PIO Fund employees, and even more drastically with farmers, we come into a situation after a long time to pay back pensions in Serbia next month for the previous month. I think it's a huge step in the best interests of both current and future pensioners. I am sure that every next Serbian government will maintain what we have now achieved, which is that pensions are paid to pensioners always next month for the previous month; simply, it is one obligation. As for another remark that's been made here, about the interest of the tight and the whole story that's been brought here, why don't we count on a tight interest from the moment of delay and so on. I wouldn't particularly elaborate, but we're all aware of two things here. First, the pensions this year, in 2005, may not be known in the public, have actually grown, not nominally, because we have an inflation of about 17% and how much this year, pensions in Serbia have really increased. That's the first important thing I want to point out. At the same time, pensions have been in line since 2001, as you know, according to the Swiss formula, where the cost and increase of earnings were calculated. The whole network of remarks about the tight interest and the rest does not stand, because no real value has been compromised. What we did here is now that we're starting to pay off we're counting the interest 8.5% from the moment we start paying off until the end. In this way we keep the real value of pensions and it is also worth it to farmers. Their payment will begin from 2007, interest will start now in December. All that was possible in the given situation, in the given economic circumstances, to do, given the need for the pension system to be settled and the pensioners to be in a better position than they were, this government did. In that sense, I can understand all sorts of objections anyway. Of course it's possible that there are solutions that may be better, in a way, and I'm only talking about what's realistically possible. In this regard, it is not good for the citizens of Serbia when this speaker is listed as a possible solution to use the country's foreign reserves to pay out pensions or any cost in the country. Most citizens of this matter are not known enough and it may sound like an average citizen as something simple, easy, and if only there was a political will, so that's how much money we have. I don't think that's good because foreign reserves have a completely different function. I will not elaborate further because I am not the governor, nor the finance minister, because of the citizens of Serbia, I want to say that it is the lead of the citizens of Serbia in error, that we can, but we will not. In fact, the country's foreign reserves, like in all countries of the world, have a completely different function. They're not in consumption function. They are in the role of maintaining currency stability and the macroeconomic situation in the country in question. In this regard, just one more piece of information, and yet because of the citizens of Serbia, that they know what it is, whoever listens to this, although it is a bit of a storm, it is that our country's foreign reserves, as well as any other country, are held in the highest quality and most famous banks of the world, with the highest rating, for the sake of maximum security. That's what we all need to know and I think we should know about Serbian citizens as well, as far as foreign reserve stories are concerned. This is what I needed to say so that people wouldn't be mistaken about what I was talking about. This government has come into a situation where it has come to its efforts to get into the return of debt to pensioners, government debt. Of course we could theoretically not return it and say what we care about, late retirements, one and a half pensions, that late 20 pensions, we'll be holding it by the end of the term, we don't care and let someone else deal with it. Since this isn't the government I care about, we've entered into this business that I'm talking about and what's most important to me as the minister who's primarily in charge of the pension system, and I'm not talking about the incident and the debt recovery, which we've come back into the situation to pay off our regular pension in the next month for the previous month, and that's crucial. It's a matter of system. When it comes to the agricultural pensions that we've been talking about, there's one more thing that we've managed to do this way, by now bringing the farmers into a situation that they're now receiving the moon for the month, along with this leap that I've been talking about. Because of the way the coordination is done throughout the period and the agricultural pensioners are now getting, at least twice the pension they would have gotten if we hadn't adopted these laws. Because because of the method of alignment, now November 2005 is much more than January 2004, when it was the last payment. There are no groups within the pensioners who, by adopting these laws, not only for paying off these pensions, but for returning normal relations to the system, do not win. Would anyone like more than that to pay first thing tomorrow morning, so thank God. Of course this government, so it can do it, to pay off immediately. But that's not possible. It's possible as we suggested. There may be shades like this or something, but that's the point. About, that's what I heard when I was sitting here. I didn't really come to the end, as my colleague said, I listened a little more, I listened to the comments of the MPs these days. I'm saying, I think that's the point, because the essence of the objections and objections that have been said here mostly comes down to these few questions that I've been commenting on. Simply so that pensioners know that on December 24th, regardless of the story they heard from this payoff, the payoff will begin and a full November pension and a quarter of every pensioner in Serbia will be paid by the new year. To make this simple, so we wouldn't be men of error. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24124	Thank you. I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill, in principle and togetherness, the National Assembly will decide in the day of voting on the draft law, in principle, in particular and in general. In the follow-up to the session, MP Nemanja Sarovic appeared in his office according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24125	Unfortunately, my proposal to the minister disobeyed, and I'll take the opportunity to answer a few of the things he said. In fact, you said that some things don't understand, so you say governments change, and the state stays.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24126	Mr. Sarovic, you've reached out to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24127	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Markovic, Article 104. The dignity of the National Assembly was violated by Mr Lalovic's exposure, although he refused to participate in the previous debate in the principle and amendments, and then he now misused his right as minister and addressed him, counting on the fact that none of the MPs would be able to answer him. But on that, gentlemen, you can't count anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24128	Mr. Sarovic, I warn you exactly under Article 104 that the MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly and are obliged to address one another with respect. Mr Lalovic is a People's MP and you are obliged to address him with respect, and certainly you are in violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, although I did not warn you earlier, when you asked him not to respect the Rules of Procedure of Minister, who is also a MP, to act contrary to the Rules of Procedure, and he addressed himself because he was named after a synopsis by which the President runs the National Assembly. So, please, any kind of objection you want to make as evidence that the dignity of the National Assembly is not respected, do it anyway, and I support you, but don't violate the member you call upon. I'll give you your time back. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24129	Mr. Markovic, you have now injured Article 28. I warn you that if you have any comment to make, then let me first explain how the Rules of Procedure was injured. So, hold back, and only when I'm done is you can set yourself up. Do not try again in a unique way to lead the citizens astray. Of course, I didn't ask Mr. Lalovic, he's here as a minister, and not as an MP, so to be clear, I didn't ask him to break any regulation by the Rules of Procedure. He has the right to address the Rules of Procedure, but since he did not fulfil his obligation to be here during the debate, then I suggested that he not use his right to do so, because it would be extremely incorrect for me. So don't get involved where you don't belong. If Minister Lalovic has not resented what I told him, then you have no need to be more Pope than he is and to defend what there is no need to defend. So, Mr. Lalovic said that governments are changing and that the states are staying. It was an earlier case, while this country had responsible governments. However, only one of those quasi-democratic governments was enough to prevent it from being left behind by the SRJ. That's where you destroyed the country. Now it's clear she's gone. You are already slowly acknowledging that within the ruling coalition. How many quasi-democratic governments will be enough to keep this state of Serbia behind them, we will see. I hope the state of Serbia survives this government as well. She also survived many others. Next, you said some would be happy if it wasn't working. In particular, regarding this law, pensioners would certainly be happy if you hadn't done this, because then the money that the state owes them would have been much sooner than you would have anticipated this solution. You're saying it was criticised when you predicted the bonds would be paid. Of course it is. You are now saying that "proposed amendments and additions to the law would produce positive effects, because the proposed way is much easier to pay which would be in cash, which would spare the users the complicated payment procedures through bonds". So, you've convinced us not so long ago that this is the best possible solution, and now you're saying in the light of the law that it's extremely complicated. Is it cash or bonds? Of course, cash, but better bonds coming in January 2006, than cash to be paid in July 2006. So this is about a deadline. Better bonds today than cash in seven months. I guess that's clear to everyone. Then, you say the pensions really went up. I really don't see what that has to do with it, even though it's a discussion, what does that have to do with interest? The pension has grown because the cost of living has increased, because it's a huge inflation, etc., but it has nothing to do with the interest right of what you owe a few years ago. (President: Time. Next, you said that this government had inherited that debt. Yes, but from the previous government that you were in, too. Therefore, do not distract the citizens of Serbia. This is a democratic debt, your debt. It's not a debt I don't know which governments, it's a debt from your government. You can call yourself one way or another, you can change the game, but you are still Free Lalović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-15-0.u24130	I won't give a warning, of course. Continuing Tuesday's session, December 20th, at 10.00pm, with a discussion in detail of the 3rd item of the agenda. To all who celebrate the glory of St. Nicholas, I wish a happy glory.
