ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-01-0.u18922	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record of the presence, I find that the session is attended by 90 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are more than 84 MPs, or more than one third of MPs, and that we have the opportunity to start a working day. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by MP Marko Djurisic and Zeljko Tomic. We move on to a joint principle search of the 3-6th agenda: – PROPOSALS ON CONCERNATION PROTECTION, AUTHORITY, CONSUMER PROTECTION AND PRICES At the same time, for those who did not follow the afternoon work yesterday, I repeat the notice once again – since the Assembly, as a rule, does not ambush Fridays, today is about the conclusion of the debate in the details of these points. The main debate on the 7th agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Protector of Citizens begins on Monday at 10.00 p.m. The word is made by MP Brance Stojanovic. Let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Veroljub Arsic, and then the messenger of the people, Milka Silai. Brance Stojanovic is not here right now, the People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the word, and let the MP Milka Silajev be prepared, so the MP Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-01-0.u18923	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I began to deal with politics actively, I always wondered, when I was reading "The Official Messenger," if someone in vain was sitting in some ministry writing such nebuloses when it comes to legal proposals in general. It seems to me, to say the least, stupidity has not given up with this new government and the new DOS. I expected, at the very least, before I read the bill's proposals, much better, more precise, more technically arranged solutions, I expected something new. However, when these laws are looked at, the good part is already regulated by the laws, and now the question is why the laws are not respected by certain authorities of the state administration, including the ministries. Take a look at the consumer protection bill. Only in a few members can I show you that this is about one legal matter already regulated by positive legal regulations and really questions why such laws are on the agenda – or someone has no time to write something smarter or the government wants this congregation and people to entertain and show that something really works. The consumer protection law states in Article 5: "Productions, manufacturing processes and services must be safe for the life and health of consumers and the environment. Products and services must comply with health, hygiene, qualitative, environmental and other conditions in accordance with the law, applicable standards, customs, technical and other regulations." Is this matter already regulated by the law? Yes, it is. Who's obliged to take care of it? The Government of the Republic of Serbia is obliged through various inspection services, state administration bodies, etc. Why have we now written a new law for something already regulated and why are the old laws, which are still in force, not respected? Here, Article 6 states: "The sale of health or hygiene products, products which have expired, as well as products which are not declared in a prescribed manner, is prohibited, in accordance with the law." Is that regulated by legal matter? Yes, it is. Then what does this law do? What's he gonna do again? The government, or authorities that are obliged to enforce existing legal regulations, do not comply with these legal regulations, and what will oblige them to comply with this law? Article 7 states: "A packaging must be harmless for consumer health and the environment. The packaging and repacking of the product must be done in a way that ensures that the health and hygiene and quality of the product is maintained. And that's settled by legal regulations. You're even getting into the work of some other ministries here, but well, the promoter is the government. You say, "The authorities are obliged to regularly and accurately inform the population of the water and air controls carried out, in accordance with the law." Isn't that how it's been so far? It is further said: "The notices of Article 1 of this Article on water quality contain, in particular, data on microbiological, radiological, chemical correctness, including data on the presence of heavy metals and other data on water quality and health regularity". And that's settled by legal regulations. In the next position, there appears to be a small depression, and it is said: "The notices of Article 1 contain complete and accurate data on air pollution and pollutants, in order to protect consumer health". So, someone who's not a consumer doesn't have the right to protect health, so it turns out, because that's how you wrote the bill, and you had to take care of it. This just confirms that these are quick legal solutions, or legal proposals, to create the impression that this government is doing something. There's something new in article 10. It is said: "The product that is the result of genetic engineering or in its composition has genetically modified components, must have a mark of such origin." If a little more skilled people come forward on this issue, this kind of stuff shouldn't even be found on the market. Not only would the consumer have the right to choose whether they want genetically modified goods or not, it must not be found on the market. For this there are several reasons, and one of the most important is that the population, or as you call "users" in this legislative proposal, is in an extremely difficult situation. He will also sacrifice his health on condition that the product is cheaper. Genetically modified products are, as a rule, cheaper than those made outside that technology. Further: "Reserved products and products that have been paid, which are located in a sales facility, must be singled out and marked in particular". That part's not controversial. You further say, "The period of validity of the reservation, i.e. the date of receipt or delivery, must be specifically indicated." That's where the question arises, if someone has already paid for the goods, so it's in his interest that he is on his own as soon as possible to take over. Why are you setting eight-day deadlines for some consumer who bought some goods to take over in eight days and what happens if he doesn't take over. What's it gonna be? If the seller sells it, this one has a lot of right to sue him, because in this legal proposal, that possibility is not fixed. Article 18(1) states: "A notification of the price referred to in Article 17 of this Act cannot lead consumers astray as to the amount of the price, i.e. create an impression: 1) that the price is lower than it is; 2) that special services are included in the price for which a special price is paid". These two points of this attitude and the members are not controversial, but the third is – "that the price was either to be increased or reduced by a certain time or by a certain amount". Now, since government members often travel abroad, to EU countries, I would ask them one question, and you saw that there are New Year's sales there, New Year's price reductions, you know, in trade, if someone went into this situation at all to be a trader, it happens that a certain type of goods is not sold by that dynamic as the seller predicted. He then resorts to these sales, to lower prices, just to sell the goods before the expiry date or the expiry date. Secondly, in order to get fresh capital, i.e. to recover the money he invested in the goods – why are you preventing him from lowering the price for a certain period of time and thus causing more customers to come. He didn't cheat on anyone, especially if he put up that deadline. There's no fraud. And, now, in Article 20. The bill says: "For the purchased product or service provided to the consumer must be issued an account". The account referred to in Article 1(1) of this Article shall contain, in particular, the date of sale of the product, i.e. the provision of the service, the type and quantity of the product, the price for the unit of the product, as well as other data in accordance with the specific regulation. Now, gentlemen of the ministry, let me inform you that this matter is regulated by the Value Added Tax Act, by the fiscal registers Act. Not only is it mandatory for the customer to deliver the bill, but the buyer is obliged to take the bill. If he doesn't have it on him and is located near the sale facility, with the goods he bought, he will pay for the customer's fine. That's what you put in the legal proposal. Djelic and Dinkic have already worked that out. There is no problem, only the question is how are you going to write the law, to protect consumers from Djelic and Dinkic, who have introduced this crazy provision that the buyer who bought the newspaper must have a fiscal cut or else will pay a fine of 1,500 dinars. Furthermore, when looking at the price law, Article 9 states: "In order to provide conditions for the orderly supply of the market to certain agricultural and food products, the government can determine the prices of these products on the basis of costs for their production and prices on the domestic and world market. The prices referred to in Article 1(1) of the Government shall be determined on a proposal from the Ministry and Ministry responsible for the relevant area." Now, gentlemen, that already looks like that freezing price to me. Many governments have tried to protect consumers in this way before you. And they never made it. The producers then reduced production because they were making themselves losses. There were shortages. So, instead of the consumer being able to choose whether to buy cheaper or expensive goods, the situation is that he can't buy any goods. And, the real government, the serious government then intervenes through stock reserves, provides a market for cheaper goods and thus reduces the consumption of these goods on the market and the disturbances that occurred on the market, rather than freezing prices. The question now arises why we spend so much money each year on stock reserves, if they simply do nothing, and these legal proposals must protect consumers. That means that this government is incompetent and will leave very soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-01-0.u18924	Thank you. The People's Messenger Milka Silajev has the word, and let Miljko Četrović be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-01-0.u18925	Dear President, respected gentlemen from the Ministry and Mr. Minister, honourable MPs, we have before us important laws for our society in general, for our residents, and therefore we must pay attention to that the laws are correct and that they correspond to us and our residents – the law on the protection of competition, the law on advertising, the law on consumer protection and the law on prices. Since there is no country in which there is no abuse of competition, the practice is that in regulated countries this area is governed by law. This started right in developed countries, where the principle of competition is one of the most important principles of business. So the main reason for one of these laws to be found in front of us today is the country's orientation to build a market economy on the principle of developed countries, with a long tradition of fostering rights and justice in the area of competition. This law lays down the rules of conduct of market participants and provides for sanctions for their disrespect. Today, there are over 80 countries in the world that have positive and developed competition rights systems, while in European Union countries, the tradition of competition rights has been built for more than 60 years and is considered one of the priority policies of each country. Therefore, Serbia's commitment to achieve membership in the European Union is an additional motive to apply European standards in this area. The idea of the legislator is that, if certain participants behave unfairly, they place themselves in a more favourable position than other market participants, it makes it impossible to ensure that the competitiveness of the economy in general is better. This would speed up economic and technological development and protect consumers from unwarranted price increases. One of the most important members of the law is related to the dominant position. In fact, a market participant, if he has a stake greater than 40%, must bear the burden of proving he has no dominant position. A policy like this could turn into price control, similar to what happened in some socialist countries in transition. It's a little trap that I hope our country wants to get out of. The law established a Commission for the Protection of Competition and will be independent of state authorities, economic operators and other independent persons. The proposal for a consumer protection law is a number of important newspapers, including the most important obligation to inform consumers about the presence of genetically modified organisms, the degree of water pollution, the degree of air pollution, and the inspection of the catalogical distance sales. Several provisions refer to newborns and children, as well as other minors. The sale of toys and other products is prohibited if they are made of material that can adversely affect children’s health. It is prohibited to sell and serve alcohol to minors, as well as to sell tobacco products. Products intended for transport will have to have a declaration with information on the manufacturer, country of origin, importer, supplier, composition, date of manufacture and duration or date of use, as well as the method of use, storage and maintenance of the product. Consumer interest in Serbia could be seriously undermined in terms of trade liberalisation, when the market is flooded with goods of suspicious origin, counterfeits, invalid products, and therefore it was necessary to impose penalties for those who do not comply with the legal provisions. High prices of penalties to the following traders who discriminate against the consumer, when it comes to the price, quality of products and services, and especially if they sell the product to children, if they are from materials that can be harmful to health. As far as the Advertising Act is concerned, the main objective of advertising, as you know, is to encourage the competition game and market behaviour of operators, to provide legal certainty in the market for advertising and consumer protection. This law synthesizes these previous laws, and it is extremely important for our area, since we are flooded with various televisions in Serbia's territory. The advertising law tightens advertising conditions, even for printed media, more expensive and shorter advertising times both on TV stations and big advertisers. The law creates a new and more efficient collection of income through tax, curbing the gray economy by preventing irresponsible advertising. The law provides for the protection of public interests, ensuring the protection and safety of vulnerable consumers. Members from 14th to 29th are prescribed advertising methods: TV advertising and TV sales, radio advertising and open-air advertising. With a certain number of directives, the EU has set up a legal framework for the free flow of television broadcasting services in the EU to promote the development of the European market in the area of advertising and production of audio-visual programmes. The Directive is based on the European Convention on the so-called ‘European Convention’. TV without borders, which regulates the legal framework for free flow across border television programmes in Europe, through minimum common rules. The adoption of the directive established a basic rule that provides that if a TV station is established in one Member State and respects the rules of the country, it can freely display and broadcast its programme in the EU as a whole. The Directive harmonizes the following rules: each Member State must ensure that all television emissions broadcast by transmitters under its jurisdiction are in accordance with the rules of the legal system applied to emissions to the public in the country. The adaptation of legislation implies the existence of national legislation in the field of television display of bodies and bodies having control or supervisory function. It is usually a special body with the ministry, and the legal framework is included in international conventions. The Directives lay down the following advertising rules: the general advertising rule must be identified, as such, by the rules relating to breaks, rules relating to ethical standards in the protection of minors, tobacco advertising, advertising of medical products and advertising of alcohol. The sponsorship must be identified, as such, and shall have no effect on the programme audience. Marketing and TV purchases must not endanger respect for human dignity, to make any discrimination based on race, gender, nationality; they must not insult religious and political beliefs, to encourage behaviour harmful to health or safety, to protect the environment. TV marketing must not cause moral or physical harm to minors and therefore must comply with the following criteria of their protection: it must not directly encourage minors to buy products and services, abuse their inexperience and gullibility; it must not directly encourage minors to convince parents or other persons to buy them products and services that are advertised; trust that minors have in parents, teachers or other persons should not be used. Sponsored programmes must meet the following conditions: the sponsor must not affect the content and timing of the broadcast of sponsored programmes by affecting accountability and editorial independence. They must be clearly marked, as such, and appointed, either by the sponsor's logo at the beginning or at the end of the programme; they shall not encourage the purchase or rental of products or services of a sponsor or of a third party, in particular by promoting these products or services. TV programs cannot sponsor companies whose main activity is the production or sale of cigarettes or other tobacco products. The sponsorship of the TV program by the company, whose activity includes the production or sale of drugs or treatment, which is a very common phenomenon with us, the drugs are advertised, can promote their name or sign, but must not promote specific medical products or treatments, available only through prescriptions in a country in whose jurisdiction the entity, which performs a television display, falls. News and current events programs cannot be sponsored. A certain amount of time has been set for marketing and TV shopping to take over the program. The protection of minors is specifically provided for by the Directive and by law, which prescribes a general ban on programmes that can seriously harm minors, as well as time and technical constraints. The law provides for measures to prevent broadcasting programmes that could seriously endanger the physical, mental or moral health of minors, especially programmes with pornography or unfounded violence. It also needs to be ensured that emissions do not contain any incentive to hate, based on gender, religion or nationality. The right to reply, in accordance with civil, administrative or criminal law, must have any person, regardless of nationality, whose legitimate interests, in particular his reputation, are injured by misstatement of facts in the TV programme and must have the right to reply or other appropriate means. The answer must be made within a reasonable period of time and in a way that corresponds to the emission required by the response. The right to respond also exists in relation to all entities engaged in television broadcasting and which fall under the jurisdiction of a Member State. One of the important newspapers, which will be passed by law in this area, is the mandatory assembly of a declaration of advertising, advertising in the message itself. Some of the data, which are useful from the point of view of copyright protection, such as data on used music, which is usually stolen in these areas, which is a particularly difficult phenomenon. As for the area of alcohol advertising, I express my dissatisfaction with the fact that a member of the 68th banned the advertising of wine. Only one word is said: wine. We have wine, not food, and in some countries there is food. Then the possibility of his advertising, along with the other alcoholic beverages, had to be thrown out. I understand that in the making of the law, there were existing rules that would have to be changed to get the treatment of wine that belonged to it, as in all the countries of Europe. We've got good wine, that's the possibility we have to potentiate. That's where they have to be made. The world association of media advertisers and agencies argue that everything that can be produced can be advertised along with certain fences. It's freedom of commercial speech. It's only a question of where, when and how long an ad message should be sent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-01-0.u18926	Thank you. The People's MP Miljko Četrovic has the word, and let the MP Mika Vlaovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-01-0.u18927	Honorable MPs, when the minister explained and gave an opening statement for these four, he said, extremely important laws, which have two common denominators: to establish order in the functioning of the market and to significantly extend consumer rights. Unfortunately, there will be no order with the adoption of the four laws, when it comes to the functioning of the market, and even less will be protected by consumers in Serbia. It has been said that these laws and bill proposals have long been made and that a full debate has been carried out. They were included in the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so withdrawn, but does not mean, if something has been done for a long time, that it is of quality and that the provisions of these laws will make and achieve the objectives set out by the minister in the opening presentation. The economy and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, following sanctions, bombings and what terrible happened to them after the October 5th -- the arrival of DOS to power and the arrival of the democratic bloc of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, will have nothing from the four laws, particularly the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Because the law on the protection of competition, the law on prices, advertising, and this fourth law will not be better for their material position, they will no longer have the means to buy what they need to live with dignity. Given the position of many workers in Serbia, pensioners, many unemployed, the position of peasants, with such empty provisions as are proposed in these four laws and bodies or the competent institutions that need to implement them, nothing will change. Unfortunately, the destruction will continue and the destruction of Serbia's economy will end and the poverty of citizens will continue and their position and life will be even more difficult. Since the four extremely important laws, as proposed by the majority supporting the government of the Republic of Serbia, need to be unitedly discussed as MPs, and it is so important that the time for discussion and the total time is shortened as a single item of the agenda. I'm unable, and I had a need to talk about all four laws, but I'm going to talk about the advertising law for a very short time. When you look at these provisions and the state of written and electronic media in Serbia and the work of the Broadcasting Agency and the Council of the Broadcasting Agency, with this financial plan for 2005, of 81 million dinars to spend this Broadcasting Agency; and the Minister of Culture and Information, better say the Minister of Non-Charlie and Non-Informing, and you can say more to the minister of spine, hamda, and all this has happened to both written and electronic media in Serbia, he could not say what he was doing in the field of information, to introduce order. On the contrary, he said there was chaos in the Serbian era. How will this advice by the Broadcasting Agency implement the provisions of this advertising law if the pig's chaos rules in the Serbian era. Also, this advice won't do anything, like it hasn't done in three years. It's barely scraped and formed, and no one knows in Serbia how many or written there are without talking radio stations and TV stations. We have experienced, as a state and as a people, that the Radiodifuge Agency Council is advertising on radio and television that everyone who has radio stations and TV stations is applying to the Radiodifuge Agency Council. He's not Minister Dinkic here right now. I'd ask him how he collects taxes and contributions, VAT from these powerful radios and TV stations that don't exist and don't even know them, even the Radiodifuge Agency Council. Who approved the work of these broadcasting agencies, who followed their work in this media sense, without speaking financially. There will be an opportunity that, since there are many amendments to all these four laws, especially to the law on advertising, as SRS MPs, we further state our argument against all these laws with amendments that we have submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-01-0.u18928	The word has the People's MP Mika Vlaovic, and let MP Momir Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-01-0.u18929	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think these four laws have brought the ministry with the best desire to regulate the situation in areas that have been violated for years. However, I am expressing my suspicion that in the area of protection from competition they will not be able to handle it until the end. I'd like to make a mistake, because the processing industry that processes agricultural products is miniature. Several sugars, several dairy, several olives and slaughterhouses are easily agreed to bring down the price, and the law does not determine how much margin and how much profit can be taken. I repeat, I'd like to make a mistake, or, I'd like some other laws to sort it out. It is good that perhaps after a few years when we enter the EU, we are now adapting to EU laws, but in parallel, I think we should lay down the first rules of the game, and then pass these laws. For example, absurd is the case that soybeans are 30 dinars and soybeans are 15, and soy buckshot is a by-product. That's where the fat guys make the oilies, they make a lot of milkies, bakeries. In Europe, many countries do not have artificial fertiliser factories and nitrogen fertilizer imports from Ukraine and, for example, in Denmark without State subsidies, artificial fertilizer is sold for 12 dinars. In Serbia, it's sold at 20 per cent. Probably even on those 12 of their importers earning a solid margin, then we have extra profit that no one reacts to. The same is true of female pigs and heroes at the price of first class meat and meat processing, the same is the story between sugar tail and sugar. My grandfather produced sugar tail for two dinars and we produce it for two in 2005, and the sugar was at least ten times expensive. When it compares that sugar can be exported to a ton of sugar and 10 tonnes of sugar beet gets a ton and a half of sugar, that's 900 euros, nine times eight is 72, and that's 80,000, and for 10 tons of sugar beet, the sugar beet pays 20,000 to the farmer. You should really get someone to deal with it and see those 60,000 that are the difference, whether that kind of processing costs or sugar cans have extra profit. It's not something new, it's one legacy that lasts 60 years in this country, and I believe that this law will bring together a lot of things and that other laws will be passed that will bring it together, and I have to notice right now I'm worried that this law is not going to make it all right. I'd like to make a mistake. The advertising law should prohibit and severely punish; someone said yesterday – a doctor in a white coat recommends toothpaste. It's not good, but it's much less evil than when a doctor in a white coat recommends tea that heals everything, what in two thousand years' time the medicine has failed to cure. So, citizens who get sick and doctors say in a certain way that they have no salvation, with the help of these doctors with white coats, they put their hands deep in their pockets and take the last dime to keep this guy's conscience clean, to cure the one who's sick.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-01-0.u18930	The word has the People's MP Momir Markovic, and let MP Rajko Baralic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-01-0.u18931	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, again the old practice of bringing together the four, five, six laws in the debate, unifying the debate, and again to the MPs, above all the MPs of the SRS, deny the possibility to discuss the laws, to search the laws in the principle debate, and we must resort to the second part where we discuss details and, with each amendment, use all 15 minutes to show you that your laws are no good. I don't think there's really any point in putting this on the agenda. Before I go on the subject, and otherwise I have to speak very briefly because there are a lot of speakers from the SRS Parliament Club, so at least four, five minutes to get everyone to say something. Before I go to law school, I just have to say two, three remarks. Yesterday or yesterday, President Kostunica announced that the attack on the state was that in Subotica in the courtyard of the mother-in-law, the mother-in-law of Joseph Kasa or the vanity of Sister Joseph Kasa, a bomb exploded before all the authorities came out with the conclusion. While children in Kosovo are killing it's not an attack on the state, but when Joseph Kasa's mother-in-law gets hit by a bomb, it's an attack on the state. Secondly, I must, though heavy-hearted, commend the government for one rational move. Yesterday, the Justice Committee went to visit Central Prison and Central Prison is a major construction site, it's all being renovated and it's good, although it needs a lot more funding, but we're going to tell Mladjan Dinkic to separate funds, because, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, you from the ruling coalition, it's better to invest in prisons than in schools, because you're no longer going to school. Third, MP Mika Vlaovic said for a little while that the manufacturer is receiving 600 euros per tonne of sugar. One of Cole's biggest exporters, I don't know whose best man he's with, you see who he's got a crush on, but for a ton of sugar, he can buy 200 sugars. Too bad Serbia doesn't have so many sugars, Cole could buy everything and become one of the European-level bosses, not just here. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to try to point out in these two minutes, as far as I'm concerned, the indifference of certain members of this law. I remember when the minister started that action - let's buy our own home, protect our economy. Since you have broken the market as a national resource now falls out – let's buy homework at Mercator. Our producers can't show up on their markets, it's closed, but that's why Mercator, Frikom, Jelen Do, will produce Kobajagi here for "The Deer Do". It's not a sausage because they produce here, you sold them a factory, and you gave them resources for nothing, products here and exports to Croatia, but let's say in "Frikom" the ice creams are just repacked, and otherwise they come from Leda. When you protect the market, you will also protect the domestic manufacturer and then we will buy our domestic products and help develop our economy. So much for protecting against competition. In addition to amendments, we will explain each member and discuss each member. That's the kind of nebulosis in Article 3. – basic consumer rights. As if so far it has not been known and as if the state has not protected consumers. It is said: "The consumer's fundamental rights are to meet the basic needs, availability of essential products and services, food, clothing, footwear, living space, health care, education, hygiene, etc." I wonder what, when Dinkic is getting ready to take off 50% of his pensions, when the salaries of all Serbian employees are so much that they can barely survive. How you will provide basic needs, and you are power, you are required and obliged to provide. Listen to this, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament – education of consumers, acquisition of basic titles and abilities necessary for the proper and reliable choice of products and services and knowledge of basic products etc. You want to introduce a school so a citizen can buy bread with bread? Article 6 again nebulose – it is prohibited to sell health and non-hygienic invalid products. Other laws regulate it. The one who sells a medically incorrect product goes to jail. Even those laws are too mild. I'm still in article 10, so I'm gonna stop, but I promise I'll talk about every amendment, no matter who filed it. Article 10. – a product resulting from genetic engineering or in its composition having genetically modified components must have a label, etc. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law directs you to the Ministry of Agriculture. When we discussed one of the legal projects two, three months ago, I went out for a pay phone and documented everyone here that the minister was the chief supplier of the Serbian market for genetically modified organisms. The Minister of Agriculture goes to Zagreb once a month, from Zagreb flies to America to the company "Monsanto", which is a company that deals with genetic engineering. She goes a month to get her allowance, as you go to the cash register to raise your salary, so she goes to raise her salary. It's time to think about one thing, to resign, to disband the parliament, to schedule the election. As far as I can tell, you won't be waiting to pick up the sunflower anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-01-0.u18932	The People's MP Rajko Baralic has the word, and let Natasa Jovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-01-0.u18933	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, quite briefly on one subject that is interesting. A large number of private traffic agents are putting a great deal of pressure on the Ministry and the Committee on Trade and Tourism, and it deserves attention to be mentioned about this, although there is a Regulation by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, from the mandate of Zoran Djindjic, on the transport of derivatives, which prohibits imports of derivatives into Serbia. A few questions are important here, and it's important that we determine ourselves according to this matter. Real fuel consumption this year is 17%. Our refineries cannot provide normal diesel fuel production, and in doing so they have a quality that is appropriate, above all I mean euro diesel, and can't have the rest of the derivation fractions placing, primarily gasoline, lubes with a high rate of sulphur, etc. There is a promise and, I think, a decision by the Ministry of Energy to allow the import of Euro-Diels, while this second one continues to be in the regime of the regulation that has been so far. Private passengers associated with AD "Oft" and others not within that association have the following objections to this: that, in a non-selective way, whether or not they have signed contracts, they receive quantities that ensure that they do not endanger the substance of their own company’s business, and that, on the other hand (the allegations which are not my business here to say) are obtained in unlimited quantities and thus unfairly compete with all others, with particular emphasis on these petrol stations located in the Lukoil Group and the OMV Group, which, under the Regulation, would also have to be the sole supplier to have a refinery in Serbia, since it is big traffic, large assets and profits. It would be a good idea to make it possible in a very correct way for everyone in this regard to say what they have, to introduce order, if there are any rules here. I am not their representative here, nor was my political struggle the subject of the private sector in Serbia. I didn't even vote in favour of the law, but they are the practical state of affairs in Serbia, like other private business owners -- business and any other reality in Serbia. Please organise a session of the Trade Committee and ensure the presence of representatives of the Trade and Energy Ministry and that we discuss this matter in a competent manner, to discuss it. What I'm saying is that there have been significant disturbances in the supply of diesel fuel in this season. That's what I was talking about before the harvest: that there weren't enough elevators, that the harvest was late in some parts, that unfortunately the city had beaten up some grain fields, that just because there wasn't enough diesel, there was not enough wheat on time, and that's why we put agricultural production at risk. So, I would ask you, Mr. Minister and your associates, as I will ask the representatives of the Energy Ministry, to organise a joint session with all these participants I spoke about and to get reports on how to fill the gas stations in Serbia. It's a huge job. It's a business whose excise and fiscal capacity is huge and where you can make very good money. So it has to do with all these topics. I'm sorry, it's not in the best relationship with the law, but it's important, because it's everyone's interest in this topic at that level that it deserves to talk about it that way. Please do it when time allows, I ask your associates to prepare what is necessary and to inform all these people who want to talk about it, because I don't think there's any reason for it to be so. If it's true what the private roads claim, it's not good. If not, then let's tell them they're not telling the truth. So, let's discuss it on the spot and not do it anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-01-0.u18934	The People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Milojub Albianic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-01-0.u18935	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I did not bring up any draft laws whose debate is united, because it is really pointless that in a short time, which is at the disposal of the most numerous parliamentary group – the SRS, we enter into details and the essence of the laws submitted, in terms of legal and technical editorials, the essence of a formal display of what consumers are, what are prices, the non-compliance of terms, the poor translation. We will talk about all these amendments, and you will see that some members of the law that have been proposed, especially with the Law on Advertising, are at least ridiculous or are poorly translated terms that appear for the first time and which had to be corrected by the SRS parliamentary group, which the government and the resolution minister did not accept. You'll see that it will cause your attention, so you'll be able to follow it. As for this group of laws, the Competition Protection Act was on the agenda of the Trade and Tourism Committee last year. The spears were broken between what is now called the SPO, the G17 and some other parties in power over the council, its establishment, what it will do, but it is pointless that these arguments given to us by the minister, if he wrote them at all. Whoever wrote that to you, tell him that there's no point in any real reference to the situation, no rational explanation that would be in the way of, say, advertising law, imagine, suppressing the gray economy. You are a professor of the Faculty of Economics and you know very well what the economic situation in our country is, that this government, just like the previous DOS, could not and could not provide institutionally, through the adoption of laws, or through other measures to take, macroeconomic stability in the country. You know very well that tycoons, mobsters, mobsters, call them whatever you want, criminals of the worst possible fels, are also involved today with individuals from the top of this government, just like the previous ones, and you know that the dramatic growth of the external trade deficit is present because of the import lobby that no one can say anything to. Convince us, Mr. Minister, that the advice to stop competition will go against one of the Serb tycoons. Vojislav Kostunica, who is the current prime minister, must not even "shut", as our people would say. He can't even show up on their eyes. They are the ones who rule and dictate the situation on our market, the ones who get rich. It is those who further make it difficult in a country where there is virtually no production. Anyone normal, and above all anyone who is an honest and Serbian patriot, can only say that they want someone to force the production of domestic products. But if you go after the branches of the economy, you'll see this one, mildly speaking, chaotic state. This government, due to pressure from Serbian tycoons and the mafia, which manage our economy, finance and all financial flows in our country, is unable to ensure normal production and normal functioning of the market. That's what you do when it comes to oil, that's what you do when it comes to sugar, water, whatever you want. The mafia has released its tentacles everywhere, and simply this quasi commission, which, by the way, is going to cost 50 million dinars for its establishment, just like the previous anti-monopoly -- sitting, sitting, meeting, making some decisions, allegedly trying to knock on someone's pucks, and when it comes to one who can't stand up to him, just like the prime minister, or the other government ministers, will have to shut up, because that's the only way to stop the SRS. If you ask us what will happen after the next elections and what kind of model will we apply to deal with the mafia that is on the Serb people's coat of arms, that robs everything that comes, that dictates all economic flows in our country, and in the area of trade, in the area of finance, (i.e. the banking sector, we talked a lot about it) if someone is willing to confront them and tells them that because there is evidence of their robbery and their malversions on the torture of the Serbian people, they will go to jail, it will be Serbian radicals. Be assured, it is not only a story for the sake of the story repeated by our party's leadership and which points out both Mr. Nikolic and Mr. Vukic, along with all of us, the "putinski" recipe for dealing with criminals will be applied and will very soon show their effects. The capital and the people who are willing to invest in our economy, to rule by the laws of this country, and to operate as the market dictates, will be able to work uninterrupted, and criminals will come to an end once and for all. If you ask this hungry people, and you offer him a consumer law, prices and you show through members of the law what a consumer is, how it should be protected, whether he has something to buy, I will tell you that he is not, because he is hungry, because there is no possibility of eating and providing minimal existence. Go first from these problems and then go back to these systemic alleged laws, which are poorly engaged or translated and which in reason offer nothing to encourage citizens that something will be better. They don't see that with you in power, I don't mean personally, but with a complete government, it can be better. Citizens' demands are high and social tensions from day to day are increasing. That's what Kostunica's gonna get hit on the head. We are looking forward to it, and we will do everything from the assembly pay phone and wherever we appear to induce these extraordinary parliamentary elections. We will keep going out with demands that they happen, because that you are transmuting from one side to the other, you lapping ministers, will this remainder called SPO, Mr. Chairman of a group of nine plus nine, Lalovic himself for himself, Omeragic, Judžević, we are not interested in it anyway. From track to track, it's all the same, you're just over-tumbling. The tycoons and mobsters continue to do their job and Serbian radicals will put an end to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-01-0.u18936	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Mr Albianic, and let the MP Branislav Stevanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-01-0.u18937	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to go out for a pay phone to once again, in front of the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group, say we will vote in favour of these four legislative proposals from the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services, because the laws ahead are reformal and speed up the path of joining the EU country. It is also very important to say that the most important among these four laws is actually a law that regulates free competition. He is one of the laws on this list until the start of Stabilisation of Association negotiations and should be adopted in the Serbian Parliament. What is also important to say is that prices in the EU are not regulated legally. There is a price directive and it is something that in this form the law is not so significant that it is essential or systematic. It regulates certain things within our frameworks and provides the freedom that is necessary for the creation. Also, it should be said that advertising law is something that introduces order in this area. You know that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has this clear message of law enforcement, primarily in financial discipline. This has been very effective so far. It is necessary, of course, in other areas as well, and this is an important area because today we live by receiving and releasing a lot of information and programs and our daily lives or in an election campaign or outside of an election campaign, when certain places are placed, that at this point or in the past times, not that it has not been done but it has been completely anachronized. So it's allowed at this point that any television, whether it's private or state-owned, is doing as it pleases and broadcasts advertising and advertising in the way it wants or thinks it's best in a cost-effective way for that television, radio or already for postering on public surfaces. I think the time has come to sort it out, and you know what it looks like when election campaigns are coming through, and when it does, people are wondering who's going to clean it up, clear it up and set it up, because people have glued where they're coming from, thinking that that's the best way to get their voters' attention. I think the introduction of order is basic motto and party G17 plus. We really welcome the arrangements in this area as well. What I said was most important – protection of competition and no market economy without free competition. After half a century more or less of state interference in everything, including in competition, education prices, which is the subject of today's debate, we have before us a bill whose adoption of Serbia will make the right preconditions that must exist in a country with a developed market economy. You know that there is a basic principle in the EU - free flow of people, goods, capital and services. It is particularly important that a market economy is developed which we want to be in the same form as a member of the European family of countries, is compatible with other European countries so that we can support the EU market in the future. I think this is what we create significant preconditions for it to be so. So this creates another additional environment that potential foreign investors actually get positive signals from here that they can come, invest on equal terms as others and that they are guaranteed that those operating conditions that are legally envisaged, are respected and implemented. What is very important, I hear in the discussions, is that tycoons are trying to influence the government of the Republic of Serbia. Why they are so loud, why they are so nervous or express their disdain for different types of pressure, which is on the press, and there are attempts on the Assembly outside, because they cannot influence the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's where that kind of nervousness is hiding. Of course, I expect the government to take all the measures that are in its power to resolve the issues that burden our everyday life, and there is certainly one of the important issues, the question of "Mobtel". I think that state must show willingness and determination to resolve such a matter, because mixing is not allowed in the Assembly either, but not on the outside to try to act on this building. What is important, this proposal for a competition law creates a legal basis for the establishment of a competition protection commission, which will be independent and independent of state authorities and market participants, which will allow it to be impartial in its functioning. The proposal for a price law, as I said, is complementary to the proposal for a law on the protection of competition, because, for example, in Article 4. The proposal for a price law is clearly stated that economic operators cannot agree on prices, market division and distort competition in education prices of products and services. So in every way possible, I am trying to say that protecting competition is the central place of these laws we are discussing in the Serbian Parliament. I'm trying to say that this creates significant preconditions for future Stabilisation and Association negotiations. I want to conclude, we are ahead of negotiations starting on October 5th this year. I think that the Serbian Parliament should effectively meet its part of the deal concerning the start of negotiations and we do so properly. That and the public slowly sees it, because this assembly building has passed the most laws in the history of the Serbian parliament, but I repeat, it is not enough. It seems that every year and in every subsequent period we should boast that it is the most in the history of the Serbian parliament, because we are expected to have a huge job in this regard. Also, as far as the government is concerned, the results that the government has done so far are significant. Of course, we expect all these laws that we have voted here to be applied by the executive authority, and there must certainly be additional efforts. On the other hand, we must say that the government is indeed pro-reform and is leading the country into the European Union. And it is the interest of all state institutions in Serbia and beyond, that we all turn to what is good for us tomorrow, which means a better life for all citizens tomorrow. Because all we do is actually create good frames for a better life. When you ask anyone who has gone to the countries of the European Union – how you live there, you will get an answer and that it is a better standard and that you live better, so why don't we strive to do so, to do so. What is also important, because it characterizes the government as a whole, is that it is ready to complete reform processes, transition, because it is seen because it has entered the last reforms, which is the restructuring of public enterprises, the completion of privatisation, the order is being introduced in all areas, the grey economy is being reduced. These are the preconditions that allow, on the other hand, certain reliefs and economics and economic operators to stimulate better work, better employment, better wages, and all that people lack at this point. In the previous debate, we discussed state administration, state administration and officials. We show this and earlier that the government is ready for the first time to increase the efficiency of the state administration, is ready to enter into the serious application of all the necessary laws needed to enter the European Union and to start and finalise negotiations tomorrow, but at the same time to join other organisations, such as the World Trade Organisation, and I think that the interest of both this ministry and the Government is that this happens in a shorter period of time. The G17 plus will support these laws and I call on other parliamentary groups to vote for these reform legislative projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-01-0.u18938	Thank you. The People's MP Branislav Stevanović has the word, and let Stevica Dedjanski be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-01-0.u18939	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to say a little bit more, as much time as I can, about the draft advertising law and the consumer protection bill. In fact, EU directives, although you, the current DOS in power, want to get us into Europe as soon as possible, however, as you pursue Europe, Asia is getting closer and closer to us. I mean, what I'm saying is that it's necessary to edit this area of the market like that, and we know for ourselves that when it comes to advertising, we have one real mess to solve it. In particular, the advertising of RTS should be taken into account, as well as in the open space, through posters and billboards. I would like to commend Mr. Minister who is here with his team present and active in the debate, and therefore one commendation should be given that there is no common practice in proposing the formation of agencies, because you have safely done this in these proposals of the law and avoided this common procedure. When it comes to advertising, ladies and gentlemen, it should be said that one general chaos, especially when it comes to TV advertising, is through advertising. I'd like to set an example of article 18 where it's proposed that the radio-difusion council decides on the importance of sporting events, which seems a little funny. But everyone knows that if our sports team participates with a country that it has its own meaning, it's just about the popularity of sport and transmission. I would not agree with that nine-minute-long finding during an hour of sporting events, because we have a situation where often commercials can produce counterproducts, in a sense that irritates sports audiences, as well as locals watching shows. When commercials are often broadcast, they produce counterproducts in the sense that they irritate viewers more than they do the right advertising of a particular product. I would also say something about the market that is over-sufficient with foreign products, that Mr. Minister should take more care of us as a consumer of bad products from abroad, because we have the right amount of imports even toxic products, to pay a little more attention to food verification and analysis, especially when it comes to children's food and products from children of plastics. I'd like to highlight the purchase through electronic media, TV shows and so on, and that's where we also need to make a line, because everything is sold. We were likely to be victims of some good ads and bad products ourselves. When it comes to consumer protection, it should be pointed out that it is necessary to protect us as consumers most from inspectors. Gentlemen, when it comes to inspectors and their conscience, it really needs to be rigorous and to control the inspectors themselves, because I know about the case of a store -- there's no paper, on wild paper for years, and it's known that there's a toothpick and some angry drink, 100 Euros in your pocket and it works. In this respect, we need to protect consumers and also correct traders. These proposed four laws, although time does not allow how much to be discussed, really deserve a more detailed story, especially when it comes to prices. We have a situation that several times a year collects energy. This price bill won't have any strength in practice, so he's more of a dead letter on paper and won't have any special effect. The best protection of citizens would be to stop inflation, criminal privatisation and start production, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-01-0.u18940	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Stevica Dejanski, has the word, and then the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-01-0.u18941	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this proposal of several laws definitely shows that this is the government of continuity. Everything that's happened to us in the past is happening to us today. Nothing's changed, it's just called something else and it's different. And you, and those before you, even though I'm going to talk about one government, because it's all the same, first destroying our producers and production, I would only mention how our producers of cherries and raspberries, wheat and apples, have been favored over the past period. Every law passed in this assembly we tell you to protect a large import lobby, former and current regime. So that pork, chicken, powdered milk, Japanese apples are imported in Serbia today, etc. I have some data from last year, I haven't audited them, but I guess the situation is the same, if not worse, that last year alone, in the first four months, we imported 21,000 tons of apples, 15,000 tons of peppers, etc. That's, like, the first four months of this year. You know what happened to our agricultural producers at the time. If you really want to protect consumers, all of us, because we are all consumers, you need to protect them with quality, price and control. I'll give you an example. Since I come from Vrsac, it's the wine ending, I'm going to point out the problem I'm facing as a consumer. For example, wine imported into Serbia is imported from Macedonia at a price of 15 dinars. I'd like to ask the Ministry - what kind of wine is it made for 15 dinars? The price itself says there's something wrong with either quality, or someone's got the money to go through it like that, or it's something else. Anyway, it's a situation to be questioned. It's been going on for years and nobody's moving anything, so I believe it will continue. Also, someone here mentioned, if we want to protect our consumers and manufacturers, we have to have our goods on the market. We've got one infamous here, how many times we've mentioned it, a chain of foreign goods houses called Mercator. As a state we do not have anywhere abroad, especially in Slovenia, our goods in "Merkator", and almost in one daily newspaper were published – the parity of the price of the same products in us and in Slovenia, means in this "Merkator" and it turns out that prices are higher than 200-300% in Slovenia. So, one total concern for our standard. Also, consumption and consumers are also the price of water, electricity, gasoline and gas. So the gas collection has been announced, and all of this causes, as you know, as you assume, inflation. I think it's one of the basics to protect consumption and this government to stop, say, electricity smuggling or to save NIS. That's all you don't actually do, but you encourage, because you can't stand up to major smugglers in the country. Every day, wherever we turn, we look at our poverty and poverty, even pensioners. And they're starting to bother you, you're making hell bigger than the one they're living in right now. You plan to reduce these current pensions too, take them away. We also see on TV leading "businessmen" and businessmen, who are close to authorities and the regime, discussing the transition. There's misery all around us, and they're on their way, and now they've become experts overnight. Help the economy, if you want to help consumers. So, by customs, you limit the import of goods that, as a country, we can produce. Stimulate domestic investment in the production and export of the goods we need. It should be imported, but for technology, joint production and exports and provided some normal loans from 2% to 5% to make the economy work. I would ask you in the end, since I have to finish in order for the other MPs to have time to refer to these laws, not to protect us anymore. This concern of yours is killing us. We ran out of work, no money, no company. We even sold the "Palanački Kiseljak" water factory, she bought "Kolinska", "Frikom" was sold to Croatians, "Jelen Do", etc., etc. So don't protect us anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-01-0.u18942	Thank you, Mr. Dejansky. The word has the People's MP Vjerica Radet, then the MP of the people Nemanja Sarovic and the last to be reported, MP Vojislav Milajic. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-01-0.u18943	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, it is indeed a sad story of fellow MPs who support the government of Vojislav Kostunica, when in the absence of arguments to say something positive about government proposals, they say the Assembly will remain remembered for having passed the largest number of laws. Indeed, I must remind my colleagues, a lot of laws have been passed here, but much more amendments and additions to the laws that this congregation majority adopted in the basic text. So, you have to make sure that not only do, so to speak, the laws stand, but this assembly must pass laws that are applicable, from which the citizens of Serbia will live better, and then, when you do so, you will be able to boast that you have done something good. Besides, how do you pass the laws? Today we have four draft laws in a united debate. Now, if we know the fact that the Rules of Procedure are limited to the right of MPs, we must share that time and not say anything about the bill and that you would then vote by some majority of what you are trying to conclude and thus disable us, the MPs of the opposition, above all from the SRS, not to tell the citizens of Serbia what these laws are and what are these legal texts that are adopted in this House. After all, the minister also spent 20 minutes yesterday, when he spoke of these four draft laws. A man says very nicely, there's much to talk about, but from some aspect of the congregation he's reduced it to 20 minutes. Minister, if you, as you read the argument here, or convince him in your own words, think it's a little less than 20 minutes, then imagine how few MPs who are set up to criticise these proposals, how little time they have left for it. Of course, this doesn't apply to you, you didn't bring the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure brought in colleagues from the congregation majority. I never understand when a proposing representative is talking about government proposals, and Mr Dimitrijevic did so yesterday, says a broad public debate on these proposals has been held. What does that mean? Who's been consulted? Who made the remarks? Whose objections have been accepted? We in the SRS have one completely opposite attitude. We think that government proposals should be made by people of professions, people who know matter, that the minister responds to this parliament that these legal texts will really be valid, applicable to the good of Serbian citizens and that MPs, who adopt them, are voting these laws, are responding tomorrow to citizens that have passed laws that mean something positive in any segment of life. Minister, you said that these four laws, in some broad public debate, were adopted in my imaginary, 90%. I ask you, did you consult consumers and do you know how long it will last for many citizens of Serbia to be consumers, how many of them can subdue that fake consumer basket of yours? What about those who can't buy, who have nothing to live on? Does the Government of the Republic of Serbia take care of such consumers, such citizens of Serbia? Does the Government of the Republic of Serbia take care of prices? You have here proposed the Price Act, and do you know, have you come to the data in this broad public debate how many times each product of goods has been expensive since you're a minister, since when has this government been in power? We have an opportunity to learn from the means of public information when it collects fuel, electricity. But there's so much hoarding that there's no means of public information that they can't keep up with that. Every day, I don't say anything new to the citizens of Serbia, nor will you be able to convince them if you try to deny me that I'm wrong, because everyone who was in the store this morning encountered at least two items that were more expensive this morning than yesterday. It's a everyday phenomenon. So that's what it should be, and it's high time for the Serbian government to start thinking that way and doing it that way. Let those stories be said that we, as on the marathon, only vote the laws, make the laws, because this is the way to Europe. The road to Europe is a higher standard of citizens, the way to Europe is to revive production, legal security of citizens. You don't go that way, Mr. Minister, or the government you represent here today. When you talked about these laws, you said, you mentioned an anti-monopoly commission, holes in the existing law, etc. I guess you know that anti-monopoly commission never worked. Now the question is whether this one, which you have called a revolutionary change – the competition protection commission, will start working and how it will work. The revolutionary change costs Serbian citizens 50 million dinars. It takes so long from the Republic of Serbia's budget to stand out for the competition commission. The question is whether it's worth it and if it's really going to have any effects. You said one exact thing, the exact fact – that higher competition means lower prices. Of course, I agree, it is quite logical, but I would like you as a representative of the government to try to explain to the national MPs and the public of Serbia why the Government of the Republic of Serbia and your colleague Velimir Ilic do not try to force Nenad Bogdanovic, mayor of Belgrade to apply the Transport Act in public and road traffic, to share permits with those taxi drivers who have been waiting in line for two years. Why am I bringing this up now? Because a few days ago I heard that same Bogdanovic say that more taxis on the streets of Belgrade mean higher prices. You probably disagree with that because you said what is right – that higher competition means lower prices. I'm not going to speak individually of these suggestions of yours, it's going to be said in detail, but I'm going to comment very briefly on the law on the protection of competition, two members who, as a lawyer, are very interesting and characteristic to me. First, in principle, you have prescribed this bill at the very least the strange jurisdiction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and we will talk about it when we talk about amendments, but I would like to comment, and I expect you to comment on my remarks after this, Article 36. – The Competition Protection Council has five members, from the line of prominent experts in the field of law or economy, who have the necessary knowledge in the field of competition protection. Tell us now who is proposing to the Republic Parliament members of the Council. The officials are the Association of Lawmakers of Serbia, the Scientific Society of Economists of Serbia, the Law Chamber of Serbia, the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia and, ultimately, as one of the promoters, the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This is simply unacceptable. You left out the Helsinki Committee of Human Rights, I don't know what it's called, Biljane Kovacevic-Vuco, what it's called its NGO, etc. What kind of chamber, what kind of associations? If this parliament is to appoint that council, then the government should propose to parliament, that the government be responsible for those people it proposes. You know how many problems we have with the existence of these councils and commissions that are thus proposed by various institutions and organisations outside the Government of the Republic of Serbia and none of these councils and commissions have started to work. And you, as a member of the government, know I'm right when I say this. It's the only thing that gets paid neatly. Don't join that, think about it, and accept when we talk about the amendment, and accept that amendment. I am also interested in a member of the 45th where you are fully aware of the irregular position of members of the Council with the President of the Council. The President of the Council cannot be more significant and his voice is worth more than the vote of the other members of the Council. He can't be the one to make the decision. Every member of the Council, including the president, must have the same meaning. The President, as in all other bodies, is the first among the same. You also have to take care of it, of course, unless you're trying to hide something behind this that we'll only find out when these people are named. And that wouldn't surprise us, given the government's status, given the very unstable majority of the daily trade. It is also possible that this is one of the laws that will provide for another day of government. So, Minister, they're not good suggestions. It would be good for you to take seriously the SRS parliamentary group, to consider doing these proposals in a better, more meaningful and more comprehensive, more concrete and clearer way, because these laws of yours are more like bad poetry than legal texts. You have to know, your associates know that, I suppose, that the legal norm must be precise, accurate, concise, applicable and that there are fewer holes in the law. According to these laws, one of these laws will continue to advertise what is "sold at a kiosk and not a newspaper".
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-01-0.u18944	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic, and let MP Vojislav Milajic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-01-0.u18945	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a package of four laws in front of us again. It has become common to combine the debate on some of the laws that you claim to be important, but the fact that we have to talk about four laws in such a short time, says that it is not so and that what you say is that these laws have passed a public debate, that 90% are approved here and there, I really don't think it's enough recommendation that here, without debate and in this way, these laws and we adopt them. If these laws have already passed a public debate, I wonder what happened the last time we had them on the agenda, so they were withdrawn, something improved or not updated. How is it possible from law to law to repeat the situation to get out here? It was similar for government law, civil servants. A few months ago, we discussed these laws until nightfall. He also assured us here that the minister who was authorized by the government of the Republic of Serbia to represent the law in front of MPs, that the law was absolutely good, that the government had a clear concept and strategy, that it knew where it was going, that it was the way to European integration. If we were to win, I don't know what kind of acceleration on our way to Europe, so that the law would pull out of the process so that it would become clear after our criticism that it wasn't. And then after a few months of laws in that same original text, you return to parliament and you return to those initial claims that the laws are good, that this is exactly what will bring good to both the citizens of Serbia and all of us. I don't think these laws are as good as they say they are, the best evidence is that we've heard from the MPs in the ruling coalition that they're pro-European laws, and whenever you're getting hold of them, then it's clear to those who can still read between the ranks that you have nothing else to say about these laws. Is it because you may not have even read them, and we noticed that some of the ruling coalition, after the minister read the explanation and the explanation that each MP received under the law, even though they spoke directly after him, only read again that explanation that the minister had already read to us. Do they think that no one here is following what they're saying, do they think that citizens who watch this transmission don't follow what they're saying? I think it would be good if you could pay attention and at least say it next time, if the only thing you have to say is what it says in the explanation, at least try to convince it, say it in your own words, not after the minister and you read that explanation one more time. It's what it is, it's what it is. I see here, Mr. Minister may have been able to bring Vlajko Senic, and this seems to be the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services, an excellent bounceboard, because here we see that Mr. Senic is now mentioned as a possible minister of military, or defence in the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. Serbian citizens should also know that this is actually a picture and opportunity of this government, this entire coalition and the way that the coalition works. If the gentleman in question had certain qualities that allegedly recommended him as an expert in trade, tourism and services, I don't know what that might have to do with the defence ministry now. Is it possible that someone who is at one point a good solution for a deputy or assistant minister of trade can skip the minister and go to a much higher and much more important post, or become a defence minister? When we consider that the ruling structures of the Republic of Montenegro have explicitly said that the candidate must be from the SP, who will probably get to the bottom of what little is left of the military, then it is clear that this will be exactly the concept that Vuk Draskovic and Vojislav Kostunica represent by signing an agreement with the NATO Pact, which they have allowed to be armed on every part of our territory, without any notice, that they can be NATO soldiers. It is simply something that represents the complete destruction of the state, the military and we are sure that within a very short time, Javier Solana will come back to Belgrade. Is this time going to come to put an end to this community, whatever its name is, or are we going to suffer some more moderation before its final end? We're really gonna have to see that. As far as these four laws are concerned, I don't think what you've declared to be the objectives of the government and as the objectives of these laws is going to happen in practice. I think that, by the moves you've made and which you're pulling, and by allowing imports, by reducing customs, you've absolutely brought our economy, our producers, to bring domestic production down from day to day. These laws had to, the Law on the Protection of Competition and some other laws, take care not only of monopolies, but also of those small individual producers that all of you are happy to remember during the campaign and say – you have kept us, you are the ones who start production, we will go to as many small and medium-sized enterprises as possible. But when you pass laws like this, you absolutely don't remember these people. In which way you will protect consumers, I really don't know. I have to admit, after all, I expected a little more from this advertising law and the price law, and still some bitter taste remains in my mouth. This debate will pass. Here, it's getting easier, but I'm sure it's coming to an end. These laws are likely to be passed by the ruling coalition, because there are very few MPs from that coalition who have even been willing to come here and listen to the arguments that we are making, which are why these laws should be changed or given up at the moment since they were adopted. Because what's the reality today in Serbia is that a few days ago the price of gasoline was raised again, that it was slowly again in the autumn, that is, by October of the month, announcing an increase in electricity prices, of course, and remote heating. All these increases further draw new increases. You know, when everyone collects gasoline, when they collect electricity, that it literally just like a tsunami spills over into all other areas of life, everyone is then called on to raise the price of their products because of that collection. At the same time, you have announced another reduction in pensions, a nominal reduction, although we all know very well that these pensions in Serbia are falling from day to day, that many pensioners have already been practically brought to the beggar stick, and what will happen when it continues with this, or when you bring about the end of this European integration, I really don't know. It is clear that all those who followed that policy in a consistent manner, as you say, of the IMF and other institutions, quickly destroyed their economies and led them to collapse. We have a very fresh example of Argentina. It's the country that consistently respected those IMF recommendations and we all see how it ended. On the other hand, there are those who have refused to do so like China, Russia or Slovenia. Slovenia may be the best example, because it is from our environment. It's a country that once had an economy that worked together with this country. They have practically refused to comply with IMF recommendations and other European recommendations, but have therefore brought their economy to the level at which they can join Europe and therefore find themselves in Europe. It repeats the situation that we are making laws that may be appropriate to Europe, but they are not suitable for us and are not suitable for this moment. It might be better, as usual, if we had been able to look at and install some of the specificities of our economy at this point in time. What is another fact is that through these laws they are introduced into the legal life of a particular commission, such as the Commission for Protection against Competition. We all know that there used to be an anti-monopoly commission that was supposed to be doing a job that will now be done by the Competition Protection Commission. We also know that this commission has never experienced fulfilling the purpose for which it was established. It's the only one that's been spent on certain funds and I guess that there's some discontinuity to be made and that people would say in their minds that that's not what it is now, the government has come to the conclusion that they're going to establish a new commission instead of that anti-monopoly and call it different. But, basically, she should be doing the same job. Is this time going to be something different and if she'll ever start working I really don't know. Here, so much for now, we have a lot of amendments, so we'll have more opportunities to deal with specific issues. However, I would ask you to think a little bit better and to gather yourself together on the day of the debate in principle about these laws and listen to some of what we will have to tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-01-0.u18946	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic, especially thanks for the correctness of your time. Mr. Vojislav Milajić is not present. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint principled search on the proposal for a law on competition protection, the draft advertising law, the Consumer Protection Act and the Price Law. Mr. Minister, we have a technical problem. Since 12:00 a.m., there's no one to chair, can you transfer to the beginning of the debate on the details of the letter you wanted to hold? In that case, we'd like to conclude now. Thank you so much for understanding. In accordance with Article 85(4), The Rules of Procedure, as announced yesterday and today, have determined that, due to the importance of the adoption of the laws on the agenda, the principle search of the 7th point – Proposal for a Law on the Protector of Citizens, will be carried out on Monday 5 September from 10.00 hours. Thank you for your responsibility and thank you for your understanding, Mr. Dimitrievich. Thank you, too, Mr. Sarovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record, I find that the session is attended by 96 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, more than one third of the MPs are present in the hall, which is why we have the conditions to begin the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Goran Davidović, Vojkan Tomic, Slobodan Pajovic, Snezana Pantic-Aksentijevic and Goran Knezevic. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Protector of the City (Principles) You have adopted the bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on European Integration. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups for five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour 37 minutes 12 seconds, Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour three minutes 36 seconds, Democratic Party-Boris Tadic – 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus – 37 minutes 12 seconds, Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes, 24 seconds, Serbian Movement of Renewal-New Serbia Independent MPs 9+9 – 21 minutes 36 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, four SPP MPs, two SDP MPs and two independent MPs – five minutes each, based on Article 93. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a principled search. At the same time, I would like to inform you that representatives for the 7th item of the agenda are authorised, in front of the DS parliamentary group – MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić and in front of the G17 Plus parliamentary group – MP Marko Krstin. Does the proposing official, Dr Zoran Loncar, Minister of State and Local Self-Government want a word? Here you go, Mr. Lonchar.
