ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-14-0.u21823	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you shouldn't worry so much that you're nervous. I want to point out one thing to you, do you want to play a microphone for me, because they don't hear me, so you are voting in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with the help of the SRS' kidnapped mandate and you already have three times 126 and that 126th term is the mandate that belonged to the SRS. Don't yell, if you have something smart to say, come out here because you didn't yell at the DSS when the DS stole Jokovic's mandate or anyone else's, because it wasn't the party who voted, it wasn't the people who voted for Djokovic, it was the DSS. It wasn't anyone who voted for someone who was 30 or 150 on the list, but who voted for our party. Don't deal with stealing a mandate the same way the DS did. Don't pretend you don't know what you're doing and we just happen to have a backup, one more. Have 100 or more, beat us in the elections, we don't have to be a parliamentary party either, have 249, if you can, but don't steal and kidnap the mandates and pretend you don't know how, what and how it works and what you are, where and how you did and how you did. Let me tell you, you can do anything and say it – the Constitutional Court said so. I didn't intend to change the Constitutional Court's decision or anything else, I went out to point out your immorality, your immorality, because it wasn't accidentally done, because you know well how and how you tried to increase your majority, and some citizens' judgment, let them assess whether you earned that mandate in an honorable way or not, whether you won it in elections or not, and then you'll see among other things why in the next election you'll get less than you have today, and why we'll get much more.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-14-0.u21824	This was a report by the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. In that case, I owe you, of course, a replica, and then you. Be nice. Mr. Stevanović, wait, I didn't give you the right to the replica first, I gave Mr. Aligrudić first. An explanation I'm obliged to give to Mr. Wolf. As you know, the president takes care of it, the MPs vote on it, I don't know, however they gained the status of the MP, you quoted one decision, and it's only up to me to take care of it. So he didn't hurt the president in any way and that wasn't an objection. Here you go, Mr. Aligrudic. First, the aforementioned DSS. The president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-14-0.u21825	Mr Vucicou, you know very well that the DSS is against the theft of mandates, and we have stressed a million times so far that the DSS would not have taken over any MPs from another parliamentary group, nor would they have used such a method knowingly that anyone else voted on behalf of the parliamentary group for any vote in this parliament, if it did not belong to that parliamentary group or to an agreed coalition that supports the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So what you said is extremely malice and unfounded. You can only have the right argument if you show the voting list, which was in the previous three cases. I will mention, of course, if it even happens on that document that someone who belonged to your parliamentary group voted for it, so it no longer belongs, do not impute responsibility for those who are not responsible for it. Because you know very well that those who buy MPs in this congregation are sitting outside of it, it is Bogoljub Karic and he can plant and install anything he wants to make this congregation an inappropriate home, and she is not. Therefore, to such provocations, Mr. Wolfie, should not be sat in our mutual interest. I'll remind you of one thing or I'll tell you one thing, if you didn't know it, we who are responsible for determining the number of present in the ruling coalition, which the public knows, we do every time before each session. Today we have 128 MPs, or 129, since Mr Djokovic came, who had an accident on the way. 129 present who support the ruling coalition, which is known to the public and among which there is a contract. 129 in the O.R. Did someone pop out a card, whether someone voted or didn't vote for something, that's another thing, but 129 people here exist. Secondly, I'll remind you of one more thing. The second item of the agenda you mention today is the proposal for a safety and health law at work. Has anyone ever heard in public that there's any problem with voting that law in this people's congregation, so we need to buy someone. Third item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law to mark the day of mourning in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. What's this about? Fourth point – Proposal for a manufacturer's liability law on things with lack. We have no problem with the quorum. Here, as you always do, draw out your cards and allow the vote to take place. Great, there's a listing, but you're not going to prove anything with that list either, because what you've done now is you're going to hand in to Bogoljub Karic, the political party that is robbing this Serbia through this parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-14-0.u21826	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic. I'm just warning all speakers that there is no reason to put pressure on how and how MPs will vote. MPs vote by conscience.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-14-0.u21827	I think the exposure of the predecessors seriously injured the dignity of the National Assembly, and the dignity of the Assembly and the dignity of parliament have long been damaged. Let's analyze your speech a little bit, Mr. Aligruditch. In Serbia, he steals Bogoljub Karic. That's right. In Serbia, he steals MPs Bogoljub Karic. That's right. But how come he steals so you can benefit? If you're telling us that Bogoljub Karic stole that individual there, why would he vote with you? Why? What do you need that one for? We'll see about the budget, my dear gentlemen. It's for me and for you, anyone who puts a card in that you have a quorum, and that's why he came to the O.R. Let's talk about something else. Why is he stealing Bogoljub Karic? Why did one party allow Bogoljub Karic to steal votes, mandates; it is G17 plus its President of the Constitutional Court; why do you allow Bogoljub Karic to steal state money, why is he not in prison? If you, as a senior DSS official, as head of the DSS parliamentary group in this assembly, the most qualified member of the parliamentary group in this assembly, say that he steals Bogoljub Karic, and is on the loose every day only on behalf of the salary received 7,000 euros each day, each day 7,000 euros he, every day three to four of his brothers, family, relatives, aunts, uncles, aunts, sisters; all this is approved by the Management Board of Telecom, in which you have members. Then the question arises whether you share with Bogoljub Karic what he steals from Serbia? What motive does the DSS have to keep on the loose a thief you say is stealing from here? What's your motive? Fighting crime, fighting corruption? Don't brag about the coalition contract, all of you who signed that coalition contract to put yourself on what, in a well-equipped bus. You're not for the van, you're for a well-equipped bus.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-14-0.u21828	Mr. Stevanovic, I didn't give you my word just because you didn't mention it, and I have no indication that you were meant to be. During the vote, seven so-called "seven" were present in the O.R. I have no reason to assume that you were thought of, and you, coming here, said you certainly didn't vote for any law. Isn't that right, Mr. Stevanovic? If you recognize yourself in that, please, you will have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-14-0.u21829	Ladies and gentlemen, in principle, I have not voted for any law. I won't support the government for sure, I won't vote for the budget for sure, I won't go into the O.R. at all when the budget is decided. Of all these laws, I will only support the Law on the State Auditory Institution, because in Slovenia 80% of the crime has been contained. Therefore, MPs who say they are fair and say they are against corruption and crime, go ahead and vote the law. I'll just support that law and nothing more. What you mention of God-loving Karic, don't tie him to me. That when he got rich, from who and how much, that's what statistics say. Therefore, what is done, by mentioning this man, is done more out of fear.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-14-0.u21830	Mr. Aligrudic, here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-14-0.u21831	Mr. Nikolic, neither you nor I are judges, nor you nor I judge the judiciary, nor investigate the crimes that individuals commit in this society. I wasn't talking about stealing from the economy here, nor was I talking about criminal acts that might be burdened by someone. I was talking about stealing a mandate in this people's congregation. I was talking about the fact that Bogoljub Karic openly claims and openly boasts that he can buy MPs in the National Assembly. Don't, in order to be skillful in politics and politics, lead me behind this speaker, to replace the thesis. Let go of that story. I didn't speak here in the defense of the SRS, not the DSS, but the defense of this assembly. Whenever someone attacks the mandate of the SRS in this assembly, on the side, trying to buy it, we will openly be against it, as we were then. To use someone here for a vote, even if he voted, and I say he didn't, and we'll see later the voting documents, even if that is the case, Mr. Nikolic, it has nothing to do with us, but with Bogoljub Karic and what he does to us in this assembly. Therefore, most kindly please, on behalf of this congregation, do not fall for the provocations that come outside the walls of this congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-14-0.u21832	During your speech I examined, there is no MP named as you said, with such a last name, nor is there any party with that name, who entered the assembly. Therefore, it is quite clear that there is no MP here. It is not correct to discuss extraparliamentary parties during the vote. We move on to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Laws which have been set fines for commercial offences and infringements since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law amending the laws which set fines for commercial offences and violations, in principle. 7 of the 130 MPs did not vote for 123. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the Bill's proposal in principle, I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become the amendment of MP Vojko Tomic, to article 4, with correction, Article 6 with correction, Article 7 with correction, Article 8 with correction, Article 10 with correction, Article 21, 26, 27, 92 and Article 93. Since there have been no other amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the laws which set fines for commercial offences and violations, in general. For 125, they did not vote four out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments to the laws that set fines for commercial offences and violations. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and DEFINITIONS ON JUDGMENTS Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges, in principle. For 126, they did not vote four out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the draft law, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Judges, in general. Three out of 129 MPs voted for 126. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Judges. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE COURT OF COURT Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the regulation of courts, in principle. For 126, they did not vote four out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the regulation of courts, in general. For 126, they did not vote four out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of Courts. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF DEBT LAW Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill's proposal in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the draft law on violations to the vote, in principle. For 126, they did not vote four out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle and before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the Bill's proposal has become the amendment of the People's MPs: Sreto Perić, member 44, Milan Stevovic, member 139 and Gjorga Mamula, members: 211, 214, 220 and 234. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The representative of the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 102, 27 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Stevovic. The representative of the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 100, it did not vote 30 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The representative of the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 102, 27 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Lazar Cavic. The representative of the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 99, he did not vote 31, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milovanovic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. The representative of the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 99, a abstentioned one, was not voted 29 by 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The title above Articles 15 and 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stevovic. The representative of the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 100, 29 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 17th Amendment was submitted by Momir Markovic. The representative of the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. One, against 101, was not voted 28 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 34th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The representative of the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 103, 25 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 46th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The representative of the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, 27 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The representative of the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 6, against 106, there were no 27 votes, out of 139 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 50th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The representative of the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 60, against 105, it did not vote 25 out of 190 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Zlatan Jovanovic submitted to the 54th amendment. The representative of the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 104, 30 of the 191 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 68th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The representative of the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 63, against 104, they did not vote 24 out of 191 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 76th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The representative of the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 60, against 103, 27 of the 190 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 85th amendment. The representative of the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 62, against 102, 27 of the 191 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 168th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The representative of the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 60, against 103, the vote was not 28 out of 191 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 175th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The representative of the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 54, against 102, 36 of 192 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I'm putting a vote on the draft law on violations, in general. For 127, against two, it was not 62, of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on violations. When we're done voting on this point, we'll have a 10-minute break, just so you know, to meet the Legislative Committee. A little concentration and understanding, please. It'll be in the little room. We move to the ninth item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE PUBLIC TRAINS After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, we move to decision-making. I put the bill on public roads to the vote, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 126, they did not vote 64 out of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle and before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that MP Goran Jaksic, by written means, withdrew the amendment to Article 96. Proposal for a law, and in the course of the review of the draft law in particular, the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Kekić, Brance Stojanović and Zivojin Stefanovic, as well as by the Legislative Committee, on the basis of Article 146(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected, as untimely, amendments to the article. 44th and 96th. The bill, tabled by MP Zoran Tanasijević. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Alexander Djordjevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 58, against 104, a abstentioned one, did not vote 28 out of 191 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Vojislav Milajic tabled an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 2a. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 53, against 102, 36 of the 191 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Alexander Djordjevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 55, against 105, he did not vote 31, out of 191 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kekic, Brance Stojanovic and Zivojin Stefanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 101, 12 of the 190 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 5th Amendment was submitted by the Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 157, a abstentioned one, did not vote 32, out of 190 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina submitted to the 8th Amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 157, a abstentioned one, did not vote 31, out of 190 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 101, they did not vote 32 out of 190 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Aleksandar Djordjevic tabled an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of the 8th. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 101, they did not vote 32 out of 190 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina submitted to the 9th Amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 161 abstention one, not voting 28 out of 190 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina submitted to the 10th Amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 152, a abstentioned one, was not voted 36 out of 190 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. MP Vojislav Milajic submitted to the 11th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 58, against 106, 26 of the 190 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina submitted to the 16th Amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 161 abstention one, 27 of the 190 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 17th Amendment was submitted by Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 102, he did not vote 31, out of 190 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Djordjevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 106, 27 of the 190 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Blagoja Krajinovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 102, 30 of the 189 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The Parliament of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina submitted to the 19th Amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 153 abstention one, they did not vote 33, out of 189 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The Parliament of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina submitted to the 21st Amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 158, one abstention, was not voted 28 out of 189 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by the Government. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 123, against one, they did not vote 64 out of 188 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The Government has submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 123, it did not vote 65 out of 188 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Alexander Djordjevic submitted to the 40th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 55, against 99, they did not vote 34 out of 188 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 44th amendment was submitted by MP Blagoja Krajinovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 100, they did not vote 32, out of 188 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 49th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Jaksic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For four, against 97, a abstentioned one, did not vote 86, out of 188 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 49th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kekic, Brance Stojanovic and Zivojin Stefanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 99, the vote was not 69, out of 188 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Both MPs Bojan Kekic, Brance Stojanovic and Zivojin Stefanovic submitted to the 51st amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 14, against 96, it did not vote 79 out of 189 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Blagoja Krajinovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, it did not vote 87 out of 188 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 61st Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Verse of Radet. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 97, they did not vote 33, out of 186 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Blagoja Krajinovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 53, against 102, a abstentioned one, was not voted 30, out of 186 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Alexander Djordjevic submitted to the 63rd amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 53, against 101, they did not vote 33, out of 187 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Vojislav Milajic submitted to Article 66 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 54, against 100, a abstentioned one, they did not vote 33, out of 188 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Alexander Djordjevic submitted to the 85th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 53, against 101, it did not vote 35 out of 189 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Alexander Djordjevic submitted to the 93th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 101, they did not vote 34, out of 187 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 95th Amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 55, against 100, they did not vote 33, out of 188 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kekic, Brance Stojanovic and Zivojin Stefanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 101, it did not vote 16 out of 188 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 97th amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 55, against 100, they did not vote 34 out of 189 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 98th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 101, they did not vote 32 out of 189 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 99th Amendment was submitted by MP Bora Kutic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 53, against 103, they did not vote 33, out of 189 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 103 by Miroslav Markicevic. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 99, against 10, it did not vote 80 out of 189 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote of the bill, in general. I put the bill on public roads, in general. For 128, it did not vote 59 out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on public roads. Since we have finished voting nine points of the agenda, before we cross over, please, just a little patience to hear from you, a vote on the 10th item of the agenda, a draft law on the state auditory institution, please the Legislative Committee that, due to the amendments adopted to the draft law on the state audit institution and the draft law on police, meeting in a small hall. So, the Legislative Committee immediately, to bring legal and technical order into line. Resume voting in 10 minutes. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the Legislative Committee has finished its work, we continue our work. We move on to the 10th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the State Audit Institute since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill, in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on the state audit institution, in principle. For 129 of the 129 members of Parliament present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that MP Velimir Simonovic, during the search in particular, withdrew the amendment to Article 17. The draft law, as well as that of the Legislative Committee, pursuant to Article 144(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall implement a legal and technical order of the Bill. I am voting on the legal-technical order implemented by the Legislative Committee. For 122, six out of 128 MPs were not voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the legal and technical order carried out by the Legislative Committee. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The Financial Committee is, on the basis of Article 140(5). The Rules of Procedure tabled an amendment proposing that in the draft law, the "general act" be replaced by the word "act" in the corresponding drop and number. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic, accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. 7 of the 130 MPs did not vote for 123. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The Financial Committee is, on the basis of Article 140(5). The Rules of Procedure, which suggests that in the bill the words "exterior experts" should be replaced by the words "sex experts" in the corresponding decline and number. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic, accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 125, they did not vote four out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The Financial Committee is, on the basis of Article 140(5). The Rules of Procedure, which proposes that in the bill the words "public receipts" should be replaced by the words "receive" in the corresponding decline and number. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic, accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Three out of 129 MPs voted for 126. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The Financial Committee is, on the basis of Article 140(5). Rules of Procedure, subject to amendment to Article 2. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic, accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 123, six of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Committee on Finance did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 43, against 104, 27 of the 174 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The Financial Committee is, on the basis of Article 140(5). Rules of Procedure, subject to amendment to Article 7. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic, accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 122, 54 of the 176 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Financial Committee have accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 123, against three, they did not vote three out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Financial Committee have accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 156, against two, it did not vote 11 out of 169 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Financial Committee have accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 157 against three, they did not vote 22, out of 182 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Committee on Finance did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 48, against 99, 36 of the 183 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The Financial Committee is, on the basis of Article 140(5). Rules of Procedure, subject to amendment to Article 20. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic, accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 125, against one, it did not vote 58 out of 184 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 21st Amendment was submitted by Gordana Pop-Lazic. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Committee on Finance did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 98, it did not vote 35 out of 185 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The Financial Committee is, on the basis of Article 140(5). Rules of Procedure, amendment to Article 21. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic, accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 163, against one, they did not vote 23, out of 187 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 21st amendment. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Committee on Finance did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 50, against 101, the vote was not 36, out of 187 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Financial Committee have accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 172, against two, it did not vote 14, out of 188 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meso Omerovic together submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 24a be added after article 24a. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Financial Committee have accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 119, two, two, abstentions, were not voted 67, out of 190 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Financial Committee have accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 115, two abstentions, he did not vote 71, out of 188 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 27th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Committee on Finance did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 59, against 104, 26 of the 189 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The Financial Committee is, on the basis of Article 140(5). Rules of Procedure, subject to amendment to Article 27. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic, accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 124, against one, it did not vote 65 out of 190 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The Financial Committee is, on the basis of Article 140(5). Rules of Procedure, amendment to Article 28 National MP Radojko Obradovic accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 122, against one, did not vote 66 out of 189 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Committee on Finance did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 102, 29 of the 188 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Dragan Colic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 33 and 33. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Committee on Finance did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 54, against 101, it did not vote 35 out of 180 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The Financial Committee is, on the basis of Article 140(5). Rules of Procedure, amendment to Article 33. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic, accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 125, it did not vote 65 out of 190 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Ambassador Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 35th amendment. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Committee on Finance did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 102, they did not vote 33, out of 191 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to the 38th amendment. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Financial Committee have accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 118, against one, they did not vote 72, of 191 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 38th amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Financial Committee have accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 111 against two, a abstentioned one, did not vote 76, out of 190 MPs present. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The Financial Committee is, on the basis of Article 140(5). Rules of Procedure, tabled an amendment, with an amendment, proposing to amend the title above Articles 41 and 41. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic, accepted the amendment, with a correction. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 119, against one, he did not vote 71, of 191 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The Financial Committee has submitted an amendment to Article 42. National MP Radojko Obradovic accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 121 against one, 67 of the 189 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 46th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Committee on Finance accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 123, against two, they did not vote 63, out of 188 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The Financial Committee is, on the basis of Article 140(5). Rules of Procedure, amendment to Article 47. National MP Radojko Obradovic accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 123, against one, they did not vote 63, out of 187 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. An MP named Milorad Krstin submitted to the 51st Amendment. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Committee on Finance accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 105, 27 of the 188 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Velimir Simonovic submitted to the 51st amendment. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Committee on Finance accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 121 against one, it did not vote 65 out of 187 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The Financial Committee is, on the basis of Article 140(5). Rules of Procedure, amendment to Article 56. National MP Radojko Obradovic accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 119, against one, it did not vote 65 out of 185 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The Financial Committee is, on the basis of Article 140(5). Rules of Procedure, submitted amendment, with correction, to Rule 57. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic, accepted the amendment, with a correction. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 118, it did not vote 15 out of 133 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 65th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meko Omerovic and Parliament MP Milivoja Vukovic. Proposer, MP Radojko Obradovic and the Committee on Finance accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 122, it did not vote 11 out of 133 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I am voting on the draft law on the State Auditing Institution, in general. For 128, it did not vote five out of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the State Audit Institute. We move to the 11th point of the agenda: – Proposal FOR A LAW ON POLAND BUSINESS Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on foreign trade in principle. For 124, it did not vote seven out of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the Bill's proposal in principle, I remind you that in the course of a review of the draft law in particular, the amendment to Article 74, which was submitted by the Government, has been withdrawn. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The Government has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 123, against one, six out of 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-14-0.u21834	For 55, against 107, a abstentioned one, did not vote 21, out of 184 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 49, against 99, 36 of the 184 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Milan Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, against 102, the vote was not 65, out of 182 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the Government. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 181 people's MPs, 64 did not vote for 117. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The government submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 7a be added after Article 7. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 115, it did not vote 66 out of 181 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 168, against one, it did not vote 14 out of 183 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Ambassador Milan Nikolic submitted to the 16th amendment. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 16, against 96, they did not vote 72 out of 184 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 54, against 100, 30 of the 184 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Lalic. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 55, against 105, they did not vote 24 out of 184 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 17, paragraph 3 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Milan Nikolic and MP Srdjo Komazec. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 175, it did not vote 11 out of 186 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 105, 25 of the 186 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by the Government. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 118, it did not vote 68 out of 186 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by Vitomir Milosevic. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 168, it did not vote 13, out of 181 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 174, 10 of the 184 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The Government has submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 115, it did not vote 67 out of 182 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Zlatko Radic. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 96, he did not vote 31, out of 183 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 34th Amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 54, against 97, he did not vote 31, out of 182 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 100, 29 of the 181 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 37th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 51, against 93, the vote was not 37, out of 181 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The Government has submitted to the 40th Amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 113, against one, there was no vote of 67, out of 181 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 51, against 98, he did not vote 31, out of 180 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 100, 29 of the 181 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 45th amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 54, against 97, 30 of the 181 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 45th Amendment was submitted by the Government. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 115, against two, did not vote 66, out of 183 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 51, against 98, a abstentioned one, they did not vote 32, out of 182 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 48th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleyman Spaho. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 53, against 94, they did not vote 33, out of 180 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Lalic. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 101, 27 of the 180 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Milan Škrbic submitted to the 50th amendment. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 49, against 98, a abstentioned one, did not vote 30, out of 178 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Dragoljub Simonovic submitted to the 51st amendment. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 47, against 98, they did not vote 33, out of 178 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The government has submitted to Article 55 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 120, two abstentions, 56 of the 178 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 56th Amendment was submitted by the Government. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 117, a abstentioned one, was not voted 59, out of 177 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic to Article 58. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 49, against 103, a abstentioned one, did not vote 24, out of 177 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 59th Amendment was submitted by the Government. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 120, a abstentioned one, was not voted 57, out of 178 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 59th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stevica Dedjanski. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 14, against 80, they did not vote 84 out of 178 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 61st Amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 49, against 95, 37 of the 181 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 62nd Amendment was submitted by MP John Day. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 47, against 92, he did not vote 41, out of 180 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Branislav Blazic submitted to Article 63 of the amendment. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 46, against 91, they did not vote 42 out of 179 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The Government has submitted to Article 69 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 109, 70 of the 179 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The Government has submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 115, two abstentions, they did not vote 62 out of 179 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The Government has submitted to Article 73 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 114, he did not vote 61, out of 175 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. MP Vojislav Milajic submitted to the 74th amendment. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 160, a abstentioned one, was not voted 18 out of 179 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The government has submitted to Article 77 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 116, they did not vote 64 out of 180 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I remind you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed a return fact, and the Legislative Committee has determined that the provision of Article 78(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is to be applied. The bill provides for a return fact and proposes to the National Assembly to decide whether there is a general interest in this feedback. According to Article 144, paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when the bill contains provisions for which a return fact is provided, the National Assembly particularly decides whether there is a general interest in this feedback. I put to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, contained in Article 78(2). The draft law on the feedback of this provision, for which, according to the government's assessment, there is a general interest. For 121, 56 of the 177 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there is a general interest in the feedback of Article 78(2). It's a bill of law. I put the draft law on foreign trade in general. For 122, 55 of the 177 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a proposal for a law on foreign trade. We move to item 12 of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF DUVAN After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put the draft tobacco law to the vote, in principle. For 122, against one, it did not vote 56 out of 179 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the draft law in principle, before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the Bill's proposal has become amendments to the Government, to Articles 98, 99 and a new member of the 99th Bill proposal, and that the Legislative Committee, on the basis of Article 144(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall implement a legal and technical order of the Bill. Wait a minute. The president of the Legislative Committee is coming forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-14-0.u21835	As regards the report of the Legislative Committee on this legal and technical order, as in the text of the report when it was knocked, the report said, on the basis of Article 144(4). The Committee has carried out a legal and technical order, the first indent is fine, but the second indent is a mistake, and Article 67, paragraph 1, reads the words "dumb products", and instead the words "dumb products" are "dumb products". So it's a mistake left out, it stands both a dot and a comma, but it doesn't say what to do next. So, the words “sugar products” should be deleted and the words “sugar products” should be put in place because we voted on the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-14-0.u21836	I am voting on the legal-technical order implemented by the Legislative Committee. For 124, 53 of the 177 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the legal and technical order carried out by the Legislative Committee. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 47, against 100, 30 of the 177 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 9th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zivojin Stefanovic and Brance Stojanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 80, against 86, it did not vote 13, out of 179 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 46, against 99, they did not vote 34 out of 179 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 48, against 101, a abstentioned one, did not vote 25, out of 175 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Milorad Mircic has submitted an amendment, with a correction proposing that in article 17 and all other members the word "minister" be replaced by "Minister", in an appropriate decline. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment, with correction, legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 42, against 99, a abstentioned one, did not vote 31, out of 173 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 49, against 96, it did not vote 30 out of 175 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Cevrovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 43, against 98, they did not vote 34 out of 175 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 47, against 97, they did not vote 32, out of 176 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 50, against 96, two abstentions, 29 did not vote, out of 177 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 40th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 50, against 97, it did not vote 30 out of 177 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 40th Amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 47, against 97, they did not vote 33, out of 177 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 45th amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 51, against 96, they did not vote 33, out of 180 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 45th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 50, against 94, they did not vote 34, out of 178 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 45th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Members of the People of Radet. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 50, against 98, 30 of the 178 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 54th amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Branislav Rankic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment, with correction, legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 95, 30 of the 177 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. An MP named Milet Poscurica submitted to the 77th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 51, against 98, 27 of the 176 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Slobodan Zivkucin has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 98a be added after article 98a. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 93, against 81, it did not vote 7, out of 181 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Dunjic to Article 102. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 93, a abstentioned one, did not vote 35, out of 181 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I'm putting the draft tobacco law to the vote, in general. For 126, against 53, they did not vote three out of 182 MPs. The National Assembly passed a draft tobacco law. We move to the 13th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE POLICE LAW After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the bill of law to the vote, in principle. For 125, against one, it did not vote 55 out of 181 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Before we move to a decision on amendments, I remind you that, writtenly, the amendments were withdrawn by the MPs: Miloljub Albianić, Ksenija Milivojevic, Goran Jaksic, Miroslav Zivkovic and Marko Krstin on members: 171, 172, 175, 175, 176, 178, 178, 179, 179, 180; Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic, members: 6, 78, 80 and 183; Ljiljana Nestorović, member 5 and Meho Omerović, member 5. I also remind you that an integral part of the bill has become the amendment of the People's MPs: Miloljub Albianić, Ksenija Milivojevic, Goran Jaksic, Miroslav Zivković and Marko Krstin, members: 9, 10, 12, 14, 15, 16, 183 and 190; Rajka Baralić, member 15; Zoran Krasic, members 30 and 144; Ljiljane Nestorović and Meh Omerović, member 41; Bozidara Koprivica, member 132 and Milan Stevović, member 135, as well as amendments to the Legislative Committee, to Articles 20, 21, 174, 180 and 193 and the amendment to which is proposed to add a new member of 195. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee containing a legal-technical editorial of the text of the Bill on Police. I am voting on the legal-technical order implemented by the Legislative Committee. There was no 9 vote for 122, out of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the legal and technical order carried out by the Legislative Committee. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 96, they did not vote 34 out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17, against 93, it did not vote 19 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 16, against 89, they did not vote 24 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, against 96, 18 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On the 5th amendment with the correction, MPs Miloljub Albianic, Ksenija Milivojevic, Goran Jaksic, Miroslav Zivkovic and Marko Krstin submitted together. The applicant's representative accepted the amendment, with a correction. The Defence and Security Committee has not accepted the amendment with the correction. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment, with correction, legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 111 against four, a abstentioned one, was not voted 14 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. During the review of the draft law in particular, the proposer's representative accepted the amendment. The Defence and Security Committee has not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 109 against two, it did not vote 18, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 6th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 100, two abstentions, not 27, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 91, it did not vote 37, out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 9th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Defence Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 93, he did not vote 31, of 124 MPs. We couldn't vote, we were interrupting the vote, because there was no quorum at the time of the vote. I'm setting a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-14-0.u21837	Congratulations to everyone today's fame. I hope that by effective work, we will allow MPs who rush to glory to arrive. I welcome your initiative not to give a lunch break, Mr. Krasic. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 126 MPs are present in the hall. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 9th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Defence Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 106, they did not vote 22 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The proposer's representative and the Defence Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 101, six out of 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The proposer's representative and the Defence Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, 29 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment to the title of Article 20 and Article 20 was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 99, 12 of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. The proposer's representative and the Defence Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In two, against 104, 25 of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On behalf of Article 21 and Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The proposer's representative and the Defence Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 102, 9 of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 21st amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 102, the vote was not 28 out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, against 93, it did not vote 19 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 46th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 100, 29 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 104, a abstentioned one, did not vote 25, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stevovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 99, he did not vote 31, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 54th Amendment was submitted by MP John Day. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 96, a abstentioned one, did not vote 33, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 59th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 101, a abstentioned one, did not vote 28 out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 70th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 102, 30 of the 132 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 99, a abstentioned one, they did not vote 32, out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 100th Amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, against 98, it was not 16 out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 110th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 99, they did not vote 33, out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 111th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 101, 30 of the 132 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 131st Amendment was submitted by a Member of the Verice Radet. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 102, 29 of the 132 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 133rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 109, they did not vote 22, out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 134th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 100, a abstentioned one, did not vote 30, out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 137th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 99, a abstentioned one, was not voted 29 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 146th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10, against 105, 15 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 147th Amendment was submitted by the MP, Verica Radet. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven, against 99, 25 of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to Article 157 of the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 103, a abstentioned one, did not vote 26 out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 157th Amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, a abstentioned one, was not voted 29 by 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 168th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 102, 29 of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 171th and 171st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Sanja Cekovic, Blagica Kostic, Stanisa Stevanović and Milan Ninic. The proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Defence and Security and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For five, against 102, two abstentions, they did not vote 22, out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sanja Cekovic, Blagica Kostic, Stanisa Stevanovic and Milan Ninic. The proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Defence and Security and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For four, against 97, two abstentions, 27 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On behalf of members 173 and Article 173 of the amendment, MPs Sanja Cekovic, Blagica Kostic, Stanisa Stevanović and Milan Ninic together submitted. The proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Defence and Security and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For four, against 91, two abstentions, they did not vote 34, out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On behalf of Members 174 and Article 171 of the amendment, MPs Sanja Cekovic, Blagica Kostic, Stanisa Stevanović and Milan Ninic together submitted. The proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Defence and Security and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 95, a abstentioned one, was not voted 29 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Sanja Cekovic, Blagica Kostic, Stanisa Stevanovic and Milan Ninic submitted the amendment together. The proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Defence and Security and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In four, against 88, there were no 38 votes, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On behalf of Members 176 and Article 176 of the amendment, MPs Sanja Cekovic, Blagica Kostic, Stanisa Stevanovic and Milan Ninic submitted together. The proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Defence and Security and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 95, a abstentioned one, was not voted 29 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On behalf of members 177 and Article 177 of the amendment, MPs Sanja Cekovic, Blagica Kostic, Stanisa Stevanovic and Milan Ninic together submitted. The proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Defence and Security and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 93, they did not vote 32 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On behalf of members 178 and member of the 178th Amendment, MPs Sanja Cekovic, Blagica Kostic, Stanisa Stevanović and Milan Ninic together submitted. The proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Defence and Security and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. In five, against 93, they did not vote 32 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 179th and 179th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Sanja Cekovic, Blagica Kostic, Stanisa Stevanović and Milan Ninic. The proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Defence and Security and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. In five, against 95, a abstentioned one, was not voted 29 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 180th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Sanja Cekovic, Blagica Kostic, Stanisa Stevanovic and Milan Ninic. The proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Defence and Security and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For five, against 90, a abstentioned one, they did not vote 34, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Miloljub Albianic, Ksenija Milivojevic, Miroslav Zivkovic and Marko Krstin. The applicant's representative did not accept the amendment. The Defence and Security Committee has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 33, against 22, a abstentioned one, they did not vote 74, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I'm putting a vote on the Bill of Police, in general. For 124, against two, they didn't vote three out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill of Police. We move to the 14th item of the agenda: – Report on the work of the Committee on Values in 2004. Yearly, with an annual account for 2004. The year and I report to the Authorised Auditor after the National Assembly has conducted a unique search, we move on to decision-making. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to confirm the Commission's work on securities of value, with the Annual Account for 2004 and the Report of the Authorised Auditor. For 127, they did not vote four out of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to confirm the Commission's report on the work of the Securities Commission, with the Annual Account for 2004 and the Report of the Authorised Auditor. We move on to the 15th point of the agenda: – THE STATUT OF THE REPUBLIC WORKING AGENCY Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to give consent to the Statute of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. For 126, they did not vote four out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Statute of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. We move to the 16th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE FINANCIAL PLAN OF THE REPUBLIC A YEAR Since the National Assembly has conducted a unique search, we approach the vote. I note that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 34(3). The Radio Diffusion Act decides to give consent to the financial plan of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. I am putting the motion to give consent to the financial plan of the Republic Broadcasting Agency for 2005. For 127, they did not vote three out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided to give consent to the financial plan of the Republic Broadcasting Agency for 2005. We move to the 17th point of the agenda: – Stop duty, SECURATION AND CHOICE OF THE LAWAL FUNCTIONS Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search on decision-making proposals, we move to decision-making. 1) I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to suspend the court's duties to judges of general jurisdiction and special courts, No 118-2356/05. For 128, they didn't vote three out of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the court's duties to judges of general jurisdiction and special courts, issue 118-2356/05. 2) I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to suspend the court's duties to judges of general jurisdiction, No 118-2544/05. For 125, it did not vote five out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the court's duties to judges of general jurisdiction, No 118-2544/05. Since we have made clear on the motion for a decision to suspend the court's duties to judges of general jurisdiction and special courts, the number 118-2356/05 and the motion for a decision to suspend the court's duties to judges of general jurisdiction, the number 118-2544/05, I ask whether you agree that these adopted proposals for publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", as well as a legal-technically united act - a decision to suspend the court's duties to judges of general jurisdiction and special courts? I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 126, they did not vote four out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. 3) I would like to put the motion for a decision on the discharge of the Judge of the Municipal Court in Đakovica, issue 118-2358/05. For 125, against one, they did not vote four out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision on the discharge of the Judge's office in Djakovica, issue 118-2358/05. 4) I would like to put the motion for a decision on the discharge of the Judge of the Municipal Court in Odzac, issue 118-2357/05. For 126, they did not vote four out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision on the discharge of the Judge's office as Judge of the Municipal Court in Odzac, issue 118-2357/05. 5) I would like to put the motion for a decision on the discharge of Judge of the Second Municipal Court in Belgrade, issue 118-2530/05. For 125, it did not vote five out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to relieve the court's duties as Judge of the Second Municipal Court in Belgrade, issue 118-2530/05. 6) I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the discharge of the Judge of the Municipal Court in Aleksinc, issue 118-2543/05. For 124, six out of 130 MPs were not voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to dismiss the court's duties as Judge of the Municipal Court in Aleksinec, issue 118-2543/05. 7) I would like to put the motion for a decision on the termination of the Deputy Public Prosecutor, No 118-2360/05. For 120, it did not vote 10 out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the duties of Deputy District Attorney, No 118-2360/05. 8) I would like to put the motion for a decision on the termination of the municipal public prosecutor's office, No 118-2359/05. Nine out of 130 MPs voted for 121. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the capacity of the Municipal Public Prosecutor, No 118-2359/05. 9) I would like to put the motion for a decision on the choice of judges, issue 119-1788/05. For 125, it did not vote five out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect judges, number 119-1788/05. Decision on the contested proposals in the Proposal for a decision on the selection of judges, No 119-2450/05. Since MPs have challenged a number of proposals by the High Council of Justice from the motion for a decision on the election of judges, No 119-2450/05, I remind you that the National Assembly agrees with Article 179(4). The Rules of Procedure, on a proposal to elect each of the contested candidates, decides individually, and on a proposal to elect non-contested candidates to decide in general, by public vote. According to the above, we move to a decision. 1. I would like to vote on the proposal by the High Council of Justice to elect Marina Angelkovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Zoran Krasic and Marko Krstin, as the judge of the District Court in Vranje. For 110, against 17, it did not vote 14 out of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Marina Angelkovic as the District Court judge in Vranj. 2. I would like to vote on the proposal of the High Council of Justice to elect Staniš Mihajlovic for the judge of the District Court in Vranj, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic. For 107, against 64, they did not vote three out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Stanisha Mihajlovic as judge of the District Court in Vranj. 3. I would like to vote on the proposal of the High Council of Justice to elect Aco Vukicevic for the judge of the District Court in Cačka, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic. For 97, with four abstentions, they did not vote 73, out of 174 MPs. I understand that the National Assembly has chosen Aco Vukevic as judge of the District Court in Cačka. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Milos Pavlovic for the judge of the District Court in Cačka, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic. For 98, it did not vote 76, out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Milos Pavlovic as judge of the District Court in Cačka. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Dragan Filipovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic, as the judge of the Municipal Court in Indjija. For 125, against 42, did not vote 7, out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Dragana Filipovic as the municipal court judge in Indjia. Since we have come to the conclusion on the contested proposals set out in the proposal for a decision, we are moving to a decision on a proposal for a decision, in general. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges, No 119-2450/05, without the disputed proposals on which the National Assembly had previously declared itself. For 127, it did not vote 48 out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision on the election of judges, No 119-2450/05, without the disputed proposals the National Assembly had previously declared. Since we have come to the conclusion on the motions for decisions on the choice of judges, issue 119-1788/05 and 119-2450/05, I ask if you agree that the adopted proposals for publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", as a legally-technically united act – the decision on the choice of judges? I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 126, against one, it did not vote 48 out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. We move to a decision on the contested proposal in the Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, issue 119-1787/05. Since the MPs have challenged the proposal of the High Council of Justice from the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, No 119-1787/05, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 179(4). The Rules of Procedure, on a proposal to elect each of the contested candidates, decides individually, and on a proposal to elect non-contested candidates to decide in general, by public vote. I put forward a proposal by the High Council of Justice to elect Zoran Hadzic, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Zoran Krasic for the President of the District Court in Jagodina. For six, against 69, with four abstentions, it was not 97, out of 176 MPs. The National Assembly did not elect Zoran Hadzic as head of the Jagodina District Court. Since we have come to the conclusion of the contested proposal in the proposal for a decision, we are moving to a decision on the proposal for a decision, in general. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, No. 119-1787/05, without the disputed proposal on which the National Assembly had previously declared itself. For 126, there were no 50 votes, out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect the President of the Court, No 119-1787/05, without a disputed proposal on which the National Assembly has previously declared itself. We move to a decision on the contested proposals in the Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, issue 119-2449/05. Since MPs have challenged a number of proposals by the High Council of Justice from the Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, No 119-2449/05, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 179(4). The Rules of Procedure, on a proposal to elect each of the contested candidates, decides individually, and on a proposal to elect non-contested candidates to decide in general, by public vote. According to the above, we move on to a decision. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Biljana Nikolic for the president of the District Court in Kralje, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Miljko Cetrovic. (The presidency was taken over by Vojislav Mihailovic, vice-president of the National Assembly. ) For 128, against 33, 15 of the 176 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Biljana Nikolic as the President of the District Court in the Kingdom. I put forward a proposal by the High Council of Justice to elect Jovic Ilic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic, as the President of the District Court in Leskovic. For 102 against 45, 29 of the 176 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Jovica Ilic as the President of the District Court in Leskovac. Since both candidates in the Proposal for a Decision have been declared individually, and since they were the only candidates in the Proposal for a Decision, there are no conditions set out in Article 179(4). Rules of Procedure, to vote on the motion for a decision in general, because there are no undeniable candidates in it. We move to a decision on the contested proposals in the Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, No 119-1900/05. Since MPs have challenged a number of proposals by the High Council of Justice from the Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, No 119-1900/05, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 179(4). The Rules of Procedure, on a proposal to elect each of the contested candidates, decides individually, and on a proposal to elect non-contested candidates to decide in general, by public vote. According to the above, we move on to a decision. I would like to vote on a proposal from the High Council of Justice to elect Gordan Vlaskalin, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Marko Krstin for the President of the Municipal Court in Vienna. For one, against 55, two abstentions did not vote 119 out of 177 MPs. The National Assembly did not select Gordana Vlaskalin as the president of the Municipal Court in Vienna. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Ivana Milosavljevic, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Zoran Krasic, for the President of the Municipal Court in Svilajnc. For 92, against 70, a abstentioned one, did not vote 13, out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Ivana Milosavljevic, president of the Municipal Court in Svilajnc. I am putting on the vote of the High Council of Justice's proposal to elect Renata Paveskovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic, for the President of the Municipal Court in the Great Plan. For 125, against 43, two abstentions, six out of 176 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Renata Paveskovic as the president of the Municipal Court in the Great Plan. I would like to vote on the proposal by the High Council of Justice to elect Zorica Polic-Pavkov for the President of the Municipal Court in Kula, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic. For 10, against 63, with 10 abstentions, he did not vote 91, out of 174 MPs. The National Assembly did not select Zorica Polic-Pavkov as the president of the Municipal Court in Kula. I would like to vote on the proposal by the High Council of Justice to elect Stevan Miric, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic, for the President of the Municipal Court in Indija. For 125, against 44, abstention one, they did not vote four, out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Stevan Miric as President of the Municipal Court in India. I am putting on the vote of the High Council of Justice's proposal to elect Svetozar Stančetic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic, for the President of the Municipal Court in Bogatic. For 106, against 63, five of the 174 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Svetozar Stancetić as the President of the Municipal Court in Bogatic. Since we have come to the conclusion on the contested proposals set out in the proposal for a decision, we are moving to a decision on a proposal for a decision, in general. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court of Justice, 119-1900/05, without a proposal for the election of Tomislav Bojkovic, for the President of the Municipal Court in Smederev and Laz Petric, for the President of the Municipal Court in Backo Topoli, whose candidacy was withdrawn by the High Council of Justice and without the contested proposals the National Assembly had previously declared. For 125, it did not vote 47 out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a draft decision on the election of the President of the Court, 119-1900/05, without a proposal to elect Tomislav Bojkovic, for the President of the Municipal Court in Smederev and Laz Petric, for the President of the Municipal Court in Backo Topoli, whose candidacy was withdrawn by the High Council of Justice and without the disputed proposals the National Assembly had previously declared. Since MPs have challenged a number of proposals from the High Council of Justice from the Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, No 119-1901/05, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 179(4). The Rules of Procedure, on a proposal to elect each of the contested candidates, decides individually, and on a proposal to elect non-contested candidates to decide in general, by public vote. According to the above, we move on to a decision. I would like to vote on the proposal of the High Council of Justice to elect Veljko Maric for the President of the Municipal Court in Valjevo, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Branislav Nedimovic and Zoran Krasic. For 24, against 58, two abstentions, he did not vote 91, out of 175 MPs. The National Assembly did not elect Veljko Maric as the president of the Municipality court in Valjevo. I would like to vote on the proposal by the High Council of Justice to elect Gorica Radisavljevic for the President of the Municipal Court in Ljig, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Tanasijević. For one, against 20, a abstentioned one, did not vote 152, out of 174 MPs. The National Assembly did not elect Gorica Radisavljevic as the president of the Municipal Court in Ljig. I would like to vote on the proposal by the High Council of Justice to elect Ivan Ristivojevic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic, for the President of the Municipal Court in Osijek. For 11, against 67, abstention four, they did not vote 92, out of 174 MPs. The National Assembly did not elect Ivan Ristivojevic as the president of the Municipal Court in Osijek. I would like to vote on the proposal of the High Council of Justice to elect Dragisa Cvejic, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Zarko Obradovic, Zoran Krasic and Vjerica Radeta, for the President of the Municipal Court in Knjaževec. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. For 102, against 65, a abstentioned one, they did not vote four, out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Dragiš Cvejic as the President of the Municipal Court in Književec. I would like to vote on the proposal by the High Council of Justice to elect Borisvoje Zunic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic, for the president of the municipal court in Topoli. For 104 against 64, they did not vote four out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Borvoj Žunic as the president of the municipal court in Topoli. I would like to vote on the proposal of the High Council of Justice to elect Djordje Zdravkovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic for the President of the Municipal Court in Vrnjačka Banja. For 126, against 43, they did not vote two out of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Djorge Zdravkovic as the President of the Municipal Court in Vrnjak Banja. I would like to vote on the proposal by the High Council of Justice to elect Dragan Zdravkovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic, as the President of the Municipal Court in Aleksandrovac. For 124 against 41, it did not vote 8 out of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Dragan Zdravkovic as the President of the Municipality Court in Aleksandrovac. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Jugoslav Markovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Vjerica Radeta, for the President of the Municipal Court in Varvarina. In five, against 66, with four abstentions, 97 of the 172 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not elect Yugoslavia Markovic as the president of the Municipal Court in Barvarin. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Nebojsa Stojic, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Zoran Krasic and Marko Krstin for the President of the Municipal Court in Leskovic. For 122, against 43, it did not vote 7, out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Nebojsa Stojic as the President of the Municipality Court in Leskovec. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Zoran Milosevic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic, for the President of the Municipal Court in Vlasotin. For 123, against 45, they did not vote four out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Zoran Milosevic as the President of the Municipal Court in Vlasotinc. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Vera Pejkic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zarko Obradovic, for the President of the Municipal Court in Negotin. For 32, against 28, 112 out of 172 MPs voted. The National Assembly did not elect Vera Pejkic as the president of the Municipal Court in Negotin. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Zoran Kolev for the President of the Municipal Court in Dimitrovgrad, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic. For 123, against 45, six out of 174 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Zoran Kolev as President of the Municipal Court in Dimitrovgrad. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Milica Peric for the President of the Municipal Court in Požarevec, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Zarko Obradovic, Zoran Krasic and Vjerica Radeta. For eight, against 65, they did not vote 102 out of 175 MPs. The National Assembly did not elect Milica Peric as the president of the Municipality's court in Pogorevec. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Drago Tintor, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic, for the President of the Municipal Court in Shido. For 103 against 66, five of the 174 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Dear Tintor as President of the Municipal Court in Shid. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Ivan Negic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic, for the President of the Trade Court in Valjevo. For 104 against 63, it did not vote 6, out of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Ivan Negic as President of the Trade Court in Valjevo. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Branislav Nikodjevic for President of the Trade Court in Zajecar, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic. For 114, against 49, it did not vote 10 out of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Branislav Nikodjevic as President of the Trade Court in Zajecar. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Zlatan Dimitric, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Branislav Nedimovic, Zoran Krasic and Miljko Cetrovic, for the President of the Trade Court in Krasic. For 103 against 46, they did not vote 24 out of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Zlatan Dimitric as President of the Trade Court in the Kingdom. I would like to vote on a proposal from the High Council of Justice to elect Bozidarka Rajic, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Zoran Krasic and Marko Krstin for the President of the Trade Court in Sombor. For three, against 92, a abstentioned one, did not vote 76, out of 172 MPs. The National Assembly did not elect Bozidarka Rajic as president of the Sombor Trade Court. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Dušanka Petakovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic, for the President of the Trade Court in Sremska Mitrovica. For 115, against 45, 12 of the 172 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Dusanka Petakovic as president of the Trade Court in Sremska Mitrovica. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Ana Bin-Marka for President of the Trade Court in Subotica, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Zoran Krasic and Marko Krstin. For 10, against 47, a abstentioned one, did not vote 115, out of 173 MPs. The National Assembly did not elect Anna Bin-Marki to be President of the Trade Court in Subotica. Since we have come to the conclusion on the contested proposals set out in the proposal for a decision, we are moving to a decision on a proposal for a decision, in general. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court of Justice, No. 119-1901/05, without a proposal to elect Slavo Stojanovic, for the President of the Municipal Court in Lijkovic and Bozidar Vasic, for the President of the Municipal Court of Ubba, whose candidacy was withdrawn by the High Council of Justice and Administration held on 6 October 2005, Vida Petrovic-Škero, chaired by the High Council of Justice and without the contested proposals of the National Assembly. For 119, they did not vote 54 out of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court of Justice, No. 119-1901/05, without a proposal for the election of Slavo Stojanovic, for the President of the Municipal Court in Lajkovic and Bozidar Vasic, for the President of the Municipal Court of Ubb, whose candidacy was withdrawn by the High Council of Justice and Administration held on 6 October 2005, Vida Petrovic-Škero, chaired by the High Council of Justice and without disputed proposals on which the National Assembly had previously declared itself. Since MPs have disputed a number of proposals from the High Council of Justice from the Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, No 119-2098/05, I remind you that the National Assembly is deciding on a proposal for each of the contested candidates individually, and the proposal for a selection of candidates who are not challenged, deciding in general, by public vote. According to the above, we move on to a decision. I would like to vote on the proposal of the High Council of Justice to elect Dragan Stefanovic for the President of the District Court in Vranj, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Marko Krstin. For 119 against 45, it did not vote 7, out of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Dragan Stefanovic as the president of the District Court in Vranj. I am putting on the vote of the High Council of Justice's proposal to elect Milena Prvulovic for the President of the Municipal Court in Kladovo, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic. For 111 against 39, it did not vote 19 out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Milena Prvulovic as the president of the Municipal Court in Kladov. I would like to vote on the proposal by the High Council of Justice to elect Shemso Hadzic, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Zoran Krasic and Vjerica Radeta for the President of the Municipal Court in Tutin. For 27, against 44, with three abstentions, they did not vote 94, out of 168 MPs. The National Assembly did not elect Shems Hadzic as president of the Tutin Municipal Court. I would like to vote on the proposal by the High Council of Justice to elect Radomir Jovanovic for the President of the Municipal Court in Kursumli, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic. For 45, against 58, a abstentioned one, did not vote 65, out of 169 MPs. The National Assembly did not elect Radomer Jovanovic as the president of the Municipal Court in Kursumlia. I would like to vote on the proposal by the High Council of Justice to elect Dragoslav Hajdukovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic, as the president of the Municipal Court in Ruma. For 110, against 44, 15 of the 169 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has elected Dragoslav Hajdukovic as the president of the Municipal Court in Ruma. I am putting on the vote of the High Council of Justice's proposal to elect Caja Koidadinovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Zoran Krasic and Milan Stevanovic, for the President of the Municipal Court in Priboj. For 112, against 44, a abstentioned one, did not vote 13, out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Cayu Kojadinovic as the president of the Municipal Court in Priboj. I am putting on the vote of the High Council of Justice's proposal to elect Ivan Mitrovica, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic, for the President of the Municipal Court in Sapac. For 34, against 63, they did not vote 73, out of 170 MPs. The National Assembly did not elect Ivana Mitrovica as the president of the Municipal Court in Sapac. Since we have come to the conclusion of the contested proposals in the proposal for a decision, we are moving to a decision on a proposal for a decision in general. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, No 119-2098/05, without the disputed proposals on which the National Assembly had previously declared itself. For 108, he did not vote 61, out of 169 MPs. I find that the assembly has won the motion for a decision to elect the President of the Courts No 119-2098/05, without the disputed proposals the National Assembly has previously declared. Since MPs have challenged a number of proposals by the High Council of Justice from the Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, No 119-2451/05, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 179(4). The Rules of Procedure on a proposal for the selection of each of the disputed candidates shall be decided individually, and a proposal for the selection of candidates who are not disputed shall be decided in general by public vote. According to the above, we move to a decision. I am putting on the vote by the proposal of the High Council of Justice to elect Goran Mladenovic for the President of the Municipal Court in Majdanpek, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic. Ninety-nine against 61, not nine out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Goran Mladenovic as the president of the Majdanpek Municipal Court. I put to the vote the proposal of the High Council of Justice to elect Zoran Manic, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Zoran Krasic and Marko Krstin for the President of the Municipal Court in Pirote. For one, against 82, abstention 6 did not vote 80, out of 169 MPs. The National Assembly did not elect Zoran Manic as president of the Pirot Municipal Court. I am putting to the vote the High Council of Justice's proposal to elect Ivan Jovicic, whose candidacy was challenged by the People's MP, Verica Radeta, for the President of the Municipal Court in Guca. For 61, against five, he did not vote 61, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not elect Ivan Jovicic as president of the municipal court in Guca. I would like to vote on a proposal from the High Council of Justice to elect Borisvoj Simic for the President of the Municipal Court in Loznica, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic. For 114, against 46, it did not vote 10 out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Borisvoj Simic as the President of the Municipal Court in Loznica. Since we have come to the conclusion on the contested proposals set out in the Decision proposal, we are moving to a decision on a proposal for a decision, in general. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, No. 119-2451/05, without the disputed proposals on which the National Assembly had previously declared itself. For 108, he did not vote 61, out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a draft decision on the election of the President of the Courts, No 119-2451/05, without the disputed proposals that the National Assembly has previously declared. Since we have come to the conclusion on the motions for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, issue 119-1787/05; 119-2449/05; 119-1900/05; 119-1901/05; 119-2098/05 and 119-2451/05, do you agree that all the proposals adopted in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" as a legally-technically united act – a decision on the election of the President of the Courts? I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 119, 49 of the 168 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of public prosecutors, number 119-2508/05. For 121, 47 of the 168 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision on the election of public prosecutors, No. 119-2508/05. Before we move to a decision on the draft decision to elect public prosecutors' deputies No. 119-2511/05, I remind you that the High Council of Justice, written on the 9 November 2005, informed the National Assembly that Ljiljana Rakic, a candidate for the deputy public prosecutor at the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Kučev, gave up her candidacy. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of deputy public prosecutors, No. 119-2511/05, without a proposal to elect Ljiljana Rakic, as deputy public prosecutor at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Kučev, which gave up its candidacy. For 117, two abstentions, 49 did not vote, out of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision to elect public prosecutors' deputies, number 119-2511/05, without a proposal to elect Ljiljana Rakic, as deputy public prosecutor at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Kučev, which gave up its candidacy. Since we have come to terms with all the suggestions, allow me to, on your behalf and on your behalf, congratulate the holders of judicial functions in the election and wish for success in the work. We now move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the violations of the Rules of Procedure to which MPs pointed during the session. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 100(4). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains in charge of the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without delay, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, at a session on 20 October 2005, at 17.18 p.m., indicated that a member of 104 was injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 38, against 106, two abstentions, he did not vote 21 out of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 25 October 2005, at 11:15 p.m., indicated that President Vojislav Mihailovic, vice-president of the National Assembly, injured Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 39, against 106, he did not vote 21 out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Veroljub Arsic, at a meeting on 8 November 2005, at 10.10 p.m., indicated that President Vojislav Mihailovic, vice-president of the National Assembly, injured the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in such a way that he did not respect the order of consideration of amendments of the MPs and the Committee on Finance in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether the chairman of Vojislav Mihailovic, vice-president of the National Assembly, has injured the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. For 40, against 110, there were 16 votes, out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly decided that Vojislav Mihailovic, vice-president of the National Assembly, did not harm the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a meeting on 8 November 2005, at 11:15 p.m., indicated that President Vojislav Mihailovic, vice-president of the National Assembly, injured the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in such a way that he did not respect the order of consideration of amendments of the MPs and the Committee on Finance, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether the chairman of Vojislav Mihailovic, vice-president of the National Assembly, has injured the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. For 38, against 107, he did not vote 21 out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly decided that Vojislav Mihailovic, vice-president of the National Assembly, did not harm the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2005. (The session is over at 16.40 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-14-0.u21838	THE FOURTH SESSION OF THE OTHER REGULAR SESSION OF 14 November 2005 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 16.40 p.m. The session is chaired by Vojislav Mihailovic, vice-president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-14-0.u21839	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm opening the fourth session... Yes, please, MP Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-14-0.u21840	I suggest that you also include parliamentary issues under Articles 198 and 199. Since you are knowingly avoiding us, or requesting to discuss ministers and government, you have transferred it to the authority of a congregation that has never delivered a report, as you have been avoiding a year and a few days to answer parliamentary questions, at least once in front of the cameras we cross spears with ministers. The situation in the country is not great, it would be said that everything in Serbia is on fire! The minister's not in the National Assembly sessions, you're packing the laws here as the Napolitans are packed in a box. You have dared to propose a united debate on completely different laws. You stuck to the bank code to deliver it to us on Friday and tomorrow will be the last time to read or write any word of it. Let us once discuss the responsibility of ministers and government, specifically, through parliamentary issues. The Rules of Procedure allow it, it should not be avoided. There's a reason, I'm convinced, that each of you has at least one question for any of the ministers. I've prepared some questions. I hear several radicals have prepared questions, too, so it won't take long, and we're ready to stop asking parliamentary questions if you have something more serious. But, Mr Markovic, since you have been President of the Assembly, we have been denied all parliamentary rights, among them one of the fundamental rights in developed democracies, the right to sit in one bench ministers, in another MPs, and to open a debate on what is right in the country and what is wrong in the country. That is why I propose that the National Assembly, without a search, decide to continue this session with a debate on parliamentary issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-14-0.u21841	One moment, here, I can put this proposal to the vote, so as the Assembly decides, that's how we're going to rule. Here you go. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: The breach of the Rules of Procedure, the vote is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Please wait until the vote is over. For 47, against 79, 39 of the 165 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-14-0.u21842	I don't know why you're making a decision that doesn't comply with the Rules of Procedure, so you give me your word afterwards. What right do I have now, Mr. Chairman, when you dared to put to the vote something you don't vote on?- I'm sorry. Read the stenogram, what you have suggested, what is voted on – to ask parliamentary questions. Well, that's right by the Rules of Procedure. You could only suggest that tomorrow we ask parliamentary questions or not ask parliamentary questions. I warned you of the right of MPs to ask questions now. You had the right to vote so we wouldn't ask questions now. And you ask the mass that governs this assembly whether to respect the Rules of Procedure and the masses tell you: "No respect will be given to the Rules of Procedure." This, indeed, has gone beyond the gift of measure and Mr. President of the Assembly and Mr. Chairman, and you, Deputy Secretary, who knows the Rules of Procedure and the Law with great knowledge, and you allow such violations to be done by the Rules of Procedure in the Assembly. I repeat once again, today is my right, the general right of business to ask parliamentary questions. You can put it on, and that's why I insist, because the books are written about what you're doing, to vote the motion that there are no parliamentary questions. Now, I need it -- that you put that proposal to a vote, that the amount, I won't say mass, that's different physical measures, so, the amount, decide -- no parliamentary questions, well, no, but it will remain recorded that the government has not given the opposition to ask, um, nothing!- I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-14-0.u21843	Mr. Nikolic, I have been informed that MPs have received answers in writing to all MPs' questions. You asked the Assembly without a search to make a statement about your proposal and I did so. No act has prevented you from asking parliamentary questions. As far as I could understand your suggestion, he was that you were in a dialogue with ministers getting answers. The congregation decided and decided differently. I do not see what your rights have been violated, but if you are not satisfied with this answer, indeed, in the voting day the Assembly will again decide whether the Rules of Procedure is injured. Here you go, Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-14-0.u21844	And how can I be pleased with the answer when Article 199 says: "Sends of questions are asked, as a rule, after the National Assembly ends work on all points of the agenda." Point. That's it now. So, since there was "by the book," you have another one -- but, which says, "The National Assembly, in addition, can, without a search, set a second time for asking parliamentary questions," and there is no other option. So you can't vote there won't be any parliamentary questions. I can suggest a lot of things here and you, like this, as a quantity, to accept it, and I want you politically bad, I don't want you well, I never advise you from this pay phone when I see you coming. Either you will adopt a general principle to ask parliamentary questions at the end of the session or you will use the right given to this - 'but' and to vote, say, tomorrow morning or Sunday afternoon to ask parliamentary questions, but do not refer me to written parliamentary questions, it is delivered 365 days a year, not depending on the session, not depending on the agenda. These are parliamentary questions being asked in the O.R., at the end of the agenda. A team earlier, which I should ask the President of the Assembly when we're going to discuss and the President of the Republic, we have a request there that the Assembly should plead, whether it's on the agenda or not?- I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-14-0.u21845	If I understand you correctly, do you want to put it back to the vote when there will be parliamentary questions, do you want to be at the end of the session or the other, or... You see, I mean, just a moment, we've already started the session before you guys, read the stenogram, and you'll see that it's true, because that order of moves is what it is, so you're in the Rules of Procedure. You see, indeed, I have no other answer, but if you are not satisfied then in the day to vote, the Assembly decides on it. Since the fourth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly is open, I ask you to establish a quorum so that we can work. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 109 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are therefore conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I'd like to inform you that no one has reported that he has been prevented from attending this session. You've been delivered the minutes of the Second Session, just a moment... I'm setting a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-14-0.u21846	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after the break, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on a proposal to put the act on the agenda by emergency procedure. A group of 103 MPs proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda to initiate the procedure for impeaching the president, Boris Tadic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 21 October 2005. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 38, against 99, a abstentioned one, did not vote 10, out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. Since we have made a statement on the proposal to put the session on the agenda of the emergency proceedings, pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. For 127, it did not vote 8 out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005 as a whole. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a selection of Judges of the Constitutional Court, who was tabled by the President of the Republic, 2. Proposals for a decision to amend and supplement the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We move to work according to the established agenda of the session. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT You have received a motion to elect Judges of the Constitutional Court, who was submitted by the President of the Republic. Before the debate opens, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time for discussion is five hours, I remind you that, for the parliamentary group: SRS – one hour, 36 minutes; DSS – one hour, three seconds, 36 seconds; DS – 43 minutes, 12 seconds; G17 plus – 37 minutes, 12 seconds; SPS – 26 minutes, 24 seconds; New Serbia and Independent MPs 9+9 – 21 minutes, 36 seconds; MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, four SPS MPs, two SDP MPs and four independent MPs – five minutes each, based on Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. On the basis of Article 178(2), Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a search. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a discussion of the application for a word in writing, with the order of the MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: the SRS, no, no, no, no more. I give my word to the Messenger of the people, Zoran Krasic, and let the Prophet of Radeth be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-14-0.u21847	Mr Markovic, I hope that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and chronologically, when setting the agenda, you have treated all the proposals for emergency procedures in the same way and that you have probably exhausted the list of emergency procedures. If the only proposal was ours regarding Boris Tadic's recall, then it's one situation, but if there's another motion for an emergency procedure, and you haven't delivered it, then it's a completely different situation that suggests the DOS is gathering again, that what you're supposed to be arguing about is just a transparent cover for citizens, that there's actually no difference there, that it's all identical, the DNA is the same. I hope you'll check your records, so you'll inform the National Assembly whether that proposal was the only emergency procedure. But let's get back to this subject that's on the agenda. I ask the question to the president of the National Assembly: in the meantime, since this proposal was sent to the National Assembly on 27 June 2005 and that the judgeship of the Constitutional Court ended, the President of the Republic used this right and the promise set out in this proposal to submit another proposal by October 1st to elect the Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia? If he delivered it, come on, then, let's discuss all these suggestions at the same time. If not, find a solution. All right. The president will answer that.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-14-0.u21848	Please allow the MP to address. Here you go, Mr. Crassy. Please be quiet. Here you go. And I'll give you an answer when you're done. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-14-0.u21849	Mr. President, they don't bother me, those who leave, there's no problem. You're done for the next two days your job. You have established the agenda, the minimum quorum existed at a given time, and now, where my beloved ones are. You're going back to your constituents in your environments. You'll explain everything you're doing to them. That's your problem. I'm doing my job. Now, here's the deal. The president of the Republic has proposed two candidates for Serbia's Constitutional Court judges. First candidate Svetislava Bulajic and second candidate Dragica Marjanovic. Of course, the President of the Republic could have expected everything and that the loved ones in every way, when I say it in every respect, first of all, I mean some ideological and some view of sharing the same system of values, so the first candidate is currently in doctoral studies, preparing doctoral dissertation, reading the one in the biography. In addition to those great academic awards and scholarships: The Summer Programme, the University's scholarship, it's something in Budapest, you know in Budapest was in one period, in August 1999, there was a CIA Center for Destroying Serbia (it's known to you from the DSS), then, Chicago - the Summer Programme, the co-operation of Belgrade and Chicago University, it was July 2000, so the Supreme Court of the United States, the Historical Society, the seminar on federalism, the scholarship of the Historical Society – Washington, June 2002, I read further what the President of the Republic wrote as an advantage of the candidate whom he proposed, in this way he lobbyed to support it and to elect this lady as judge of the Constitutional Court. It says – skills and other abilities. I'd ask those present to refrain from laughter, because in the last indent, Mr. President, it wouldn't be bad for you to look, it'll be like listening to Radio B92 and some commercial. He says, like this – skills and other abilities: "Taught for mediation and non-violent communication". So, in order to be judge of the Constitutional Court, you have to have that skill to communicate non-violently. This is how Boris Tadic said -- if you choose that candidate, then the candidate will not beat the judges because of different opinions when they vote in the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. You probably heard: "unviolent communication", it goes like an ad on Radio B92 every morning, as the ultimate range of democracy and open society, directed by these, starting from Budapest, so I don't get any further. Then he says - the rest of the engagement. You SPS guys, look who you're gonna pick. You won't vote for her, will you? We'll see. You just showed that... You can do anything. Under point 4, she was "the legal adviser to the Vice-President of the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003". I'd just like to remind you, there are probably some touching points with the "unconstitutional" law on terms and ways of changing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The constitutional court of the Republic of Serbia finally, when it somehow gathered to be in some kind of composition, decided at the beginning of the National Assembly's mandate that the law was unconstitutional. It, as Vice-President of this Commission, is and how it was involved, if it is not seen from this sub-paragraph 6. 4. then it will be seen that it has its continuity and here it is in point 6 of point 5. She is a "Member of the Expert Group of the President of the Republic of Serbia for the Construction of the Constitution of Serbia 2004-2005". What you, Mr. Markovic, have accepted with disgust as some kind of variant, some variation on the subject of what Serbia's new constitution would look like, know that this lady was headed by this expert group. I don't want to mention names anymore, because when names are mentioned, it's misread in our public. We don't know this lady from the SRS, but we're reading her advertiser. She's being advertised by the promoter so no one would want to be supported and advertised like this. Point 6 is replaced by the following: – "Member of several professional associations", now in the brackets of what Mr Tadic put: ""(Member of the Supervisory Board of the Association for Constitutional Law of Serbia, member of the Supervisory Board of the Association for Democracy. Lawyers for democracy? Member of the Fulbright Scholarship Association of Serbia-Montenegro'. I think so many books have been published about these scholarships, what they need to fill out, how they're recruiting. We even have the testimony of individuals who used that possibility to go abroad as scholarships, so when they come back, they talk about what kind of intelligence services were from abroad, why they have to work, how they have to work, etc. There are rare exceptions to the rules when it comes to what I've listed here. And, of course, there's also a statement from the lady in question that she accepts it. So, all those who think it's something that leads to the choice of professions, professions, etc. They're wrong. They're wrong. Here, first of all, he is in charge of the interest -- party interest, personal interest of the president, the party interest of this remaining DS faction to have their man inserted into the Serbian Constitutional Court. This isn't the first time that the DS question of profession, profession, has been interpreted this closely. I remind you both from the DSS and you from the G17 plus, and also from the SPS, that we have this experience with that chipplic. And he came along as a great expert, so when it got a little smudged, he was a high-ranking DS official. I think there was another affair there, because I don't know the details, and I don't want to point out exactly what it's about. So this is a classic example of how DS is going to be strengthened in the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, to balance (well, I wouldn't be surprised if these two controversial mandates, you know, this... and this abstinence of entry is reportedly due to two controversial mandates, because it's only left that DS media can wave) when resolving the Constitutional Court and DS, it gets one vote, precisely, thanks to one such proposal, because this is literally the "yellow" proposal, the "yellow" candidate, it's all "yellow". And you think about where the waist is. The first candidate proposed here, it's a relatively young person, has a lot of work to do. You know how the Constitutional Court judges are elected, how long the term of office is. I hope if we come to a new constitution, we'll change that too, because in the Constitutional Court there shouldn't be a continuity of that function, because it's not a classic judicial function. It's a specific constitutional-legal category. Not to open this topic now, but to those who are members of the Committee on the Making of a new constitution, I recommend that they reconsider these solutions, because this function does not deserve continuity. In addition to one relatively young and perspective candidate, DS, another candidate is Dragica Marjanovic. I have to read again what Mr. Tadic wrote about this lady's biography. It's a lady who's 62 years old and 37 years of employment. To make some parallel. The High Judicial Council has withdrawn a proposal for one president of the court, and it is also a lady, I think it is some place in Vojvodina, just because she is a year and a half away from retirement. They estimate that it is better to re-apply, to apply for another candidate, because this woman who truly meets the requirements of a candidate for the president of one of the municipality courts in Vojvodina, has another year and a half to retire, and it is not celibate to choose now a man who is known in advance that his term lasts for a year and a half days. They resorted to withdrawing the proposal, probably wanting to cancel the contest and dissipate the new one, looking for some candidate who could possibly hold the entire mandate there. So according to what the President of the Republic wrote in the last paragraph of this accompanying letter, we had to discuss three proposals today. (President: O two. Well, then this is ridiculously formulated. This is all associated with the third. But if two to full-time are chosen, then this second candidate with 63 years of life and 37 years of work experience, you probably figured out, a few months ago there were amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, and he meets the conditions for retirement. There is no reason now that a man who can exercise his right to retire is proposing to judge the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. The biography reads, "The intern at the Belgrade District Court became an intern on 3 January 1968." It's in the biography. I think that's one of the big reasons why the SRS can't support this proposal, nor will it vote for this motion for a decision. We believe that nothing can happen to Boris Tadic, significantly, well to propose to the National Assembly, this kind of co-habitation between the government and the President of the Republic, between the parties representing the President of the Republic and the Government, etc. That's another question. If you count on mutual respect, and you will respect the president, and you will accept his proposal, let the Scarabuji of any Constitutional Court - it is not important, then I think that you have a very superficial view of the issue of the functioning and importance of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. This is more like a changed variant, or one that was present in 2001, when we had no Constitutional Court for a year and a half. In addition to being illegally placed here outside the power of decision on the resolution of individual judges, among other things and some from the Constitutional Court, so they were returned, 'cause they were returned, but they were associated with the internship and, of course, they ended their noble mission the moment they decided that the MP was the owner of his mandate, so he can act like those who behave here, which is represented by some who didn't even participate in the elections. That's what we need to talk about. This was contributed by the Constitutional Court with Slobodan Vučetic at the helm, with help, whose name I can't guess, from Novi Sad, who came as a great expert, a non-party figure, and turned out to be a Democrats. It's going to be the same with these candidates. A candidate is proposed who can practically retire. It is proposed that the candidate, who, from the whole of this argument, is seen to be, freely speaking, a senior DS official, may not be from the first echelon, but probably from the other one who designs. According to this work résumé, these seminars, advancements, etc. He's quite qualified for destructive work. We know exactly who was in Budapest in 1999. We know the press, Miljkovicka had 100 marks a day for training; one minister had 150 training marks. That's what people say. That's what the media published. It's common knowledge. There was almost an interview with a man who was present, I think the correspondent of some foreign news agency, who ran them, who knows exactly where and how many days it took, what was done, etc. I suggest, of course, I express the position of the SRS, that we will not vote for this proposal, but also all of these principles, which are governed by some principle in politics, I call upon them to accept this argument. If you think something of what I said is wrong, and I remind you that I have read what Boris Tadic wrote, then you will have problems with Boris Tadic, not with me. I quoted what he wrote. So I'm asking you not to accept these candidates. Don't be afraid of how the President of the Republic will understand. He loves the form of democracy, non-violent communication between the Assembly and the President of the Republic. He has all those on his team who are used to nonviolent forms of communication, like those musicians, and media experts, so those who act and scratch their noses, etc. Nothing bad's gonna happen, we can just say that these aren't candidates that can get past us. It is necessary to look for others, probably, in view of the provisions of the Constitution and the laws relating to the Constitutional Court, which regulate the organisation and procedure before the Constitutional Court. There are some criteria to be given that it is a well-known top lawyer who has authority, reputation, etc. Probably, a good number of candidates for these places should be sought among the professors of law school, but who have their specific weight. It's impossible for an assistant to have an advantage over a doctor, an extraordinary professor or a regular professor. Of course, don't happen to Tadic Stevan Lilić, he's a proven plagiarizer. It is likely that some people from the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia who are known for their professional comments, books, which have been proven in the scientific field, should also be sought. I think that's where we should look. This combination of a younger and older candidate is, believe me, the simplest prank that should fool the National Assembly and the MPs to vote on it. If you're trying to court the President of the Republic, you're making that big mistake. I am simply amazed at some of his statements, and his other statement is almost contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. He recently gave the right to representatives of national minorities to decide on their rights and on self-determination, etc. That's how he showed he didn't know there was a UN Charter. He is not informed that there is a Charter and what solutions are given in the Charter, what belongs to the nations, and what belongs to the members of the national minorities. It's just that, he says, there's a Radjuke, someone named Koin, everything that can go through, the people are not obliged to know the theory of law. Why would an ordinary citizen have to know what it says in the UN Charter? They must trust the representatives of their government. They hope those who run his country do nothing against their country. Tadic, here, works directly against his country. Of course, he's always confused. The National Assembly says: there is no choice, we call, we recommend, and he says – no, there must be elections. I think you and the DSS who support this government are pretty uninformed. You should know that every piece of information, seven days before your Kostunica and Labus, gets Boris Tadic – about everything and everything. There is no information for Drnovsek that is in Kosovo and Metohija. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the post: the government has denied. You're the only one who can deny it. You're the only one playing democracy. You play cohabitation. You're acting. What these "yellows" aren't here, you think you're gonna make them, they don't care. They know where they're positioned, at what percentage. To them, Ceda Jovanovic drank his soul, so they come back to life with one of these psychic ideas, Boris Tadic. I call on you, no problem, no offense for the President of the Republic, no offense for you not to adopt the proposal, to reject the proposal, because there is an argument. It is in the proposal signed by Boris Tadic. These candidates he proposed could not enter the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. Perhaps those who follow this transmission would not say, "Well, now these radicals are only challenging something." Why don't they suggest something? We probably don't have more authority in the country than Ratko Markovic for constitutional law. It seems to me that he's not that controversial, probably, in a professional way, no one is disputed or Costa Chavosky, or any other people who are professionally involved in this business, who know this job and who are professional. Now you're telling me how to compare these two candidates to Ratko Markovic? I leave out the question of how many years to retire, etc., but I want to say which caliber candidate should be for the Constitutional Court. I must remind you that there are still some people sitting there in the Constitutional Court who were the result of an absolute settlement in 2001 and 2002, not only in Vučetic, but most judges. It was known correctly: Batic says - mine must pass; the Democrats say - mine must pass; and some other parties that were allegedly large parties at the time. The composition now needs to strengthen the DS, probably with two more, and then the practical constitutionality and legality in Serbia will depend solely on the DS. It will not depend on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and I must tell you that you do not respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia either. You step openly on it, even by including some points in the agenda and individual solutions that come as proposals, as well as individual members as to how to look and to openly violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Keep an eye on it, because the worse it gets, the better it still exists as a devisor. It is more appropriate for those who were in power by mistake during 2001, 2002, and 2003. You're supposed to be defending yourself from that DS, and you're almost accepting all of them. It's neither the time nor the place to inform you any closer. Some who were on the Justice Committee had the opportunity to hear, a large number of DS candidates are now in the structures for the management structures of our courts and prosecutors. Maybe you've been uninformed, maybe this is some kind of tied-up store. Take care, you've done quite a bit, and you've even gone so far that you didn't want to support your disputes here. Imagine what you're doing. Then you will scream when something, some obvious injustice bites you from the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, and grab your head—so how could they write this? Then we won't comment. We're just warning you in time. That kind of cohabitation that you have with the President of the Republic, as far as I'm concerned, can be described in one word, that it is not healthy. The government is acting under the Constitution of the prescribed powers, the President of the Republic should behave within the framework of the Constitution of the prescribed powers. See how you exercise your powers, see how the president exercises his powers. If you carry out in accordance with the Constitution and if it is implemented in accordance with the Constitution, then it is impossible to conflict. You have a daily conflict. Then consider who violates the Constitution, who abuses constitutional authority. You gave him the National Office, you gave him that kind of budget, you let him precedent in our practice, that never happened, that the President of the Republic was getting donations. You swallowed that pill, too. That's what you voted for. So this is really Boris Tadic's right to propose. He gave some explanation, if you have a chance to read it, read it. He openly confessed here, according to these items I read to you, what his intentions are. Think about it. Here the subject is known, the decision is clear, take it or leave it, but if you take the crucial role in the definition of taking it or leaving it with you, there will be a fact about how it relates to the relationship between the two state authorities, then I'm telling you that you were wrong at the beginning. Let you be governed by what is in the Constitution and by the law prescribed by the organisation, jurisdiction and legal fact of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. If you stay on it, then you will join the SRS and vote against such a proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-14-0.u21850	Thank you, Mr. Krassic, for the presentation. You will allow me, from this place, to answer the question you asked me. So, is there a third proposal? It's 6:00. ) Please, correct towards Mr. Krasic – no, they do not exist. So, in December 2004, the president of the National Assembly informed the President of the Republic that conditions had been obtained for his authority to submit a proposal for two members of the Constitutional Court. As it was not filed, meanwhile, the President of the Constitutional Court also informed the President of the Republic in writing and asked for it, sending the letter to both the Prime Minister and the President of the Assembly. In May, he informed the president of the Assembly of the Presidents of the State that there will be very quick conditions for the third because we had in the procedure, as you remember, a request for retirement. But on June 27th, it seems to me, I think that's how you read it, only two proposals have arrived, and we haven't been able to plead before, but now. So the third proposal doesn't exist. The second question concerned an emergency procedure. Yes, the only act that, when the session was prepared, at that moment, existed for a plea for this session and there are those that are included in the agenda at the next session. Third, I did not detest any proposal with disgust, but with full indifference I received all these proposals from the Constitutional Court. Fourth, and most important announcement, the 18th session of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, scheduled for Tuesday, 15 November 2005, at 10:30 p.m., is delayed and will be held on Wednesday, 16 November 2005, at 10:30 p.m., in a hall on the second floor of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. The first word will be given by the People's Messenger, Verica Radet, and then by Natasa Jovanovic. Good-bye and good-bye.
