ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-16-0.u19748	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 13th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 167 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 162 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one half of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 84(2) and Article 85(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have called this session on a break from the session of the 12th Extraordinary Session and in agreement with the President of the National Assembly and the Presidents of Parliament Groups in the National Assembly, exclusively for Friday, as well as within the deadline set out in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to review proposals for the agenda, which in its request for the 13th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia set out 228 MPs. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the 13th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, which is scheduled at the request of 228 MPs, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 166. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the Thirteenth Extraordinary Session, with the agenda set out in that request. As you could see, for the 13th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, the next Dn e n i d 1 was established. Proposals for a decision to approve the detention of Ljubomir Vukkovic, the Serbian Supreme Court judge and Milan Radovanovic, deputy special prosecutor. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – SUMMARY OF THE DECISION ON THE APPROVAL OF THE DETERMINATION OF THE PRIOR OF LJUBOMIOR VUČKOVIĆ, THE COURT OF SERBIA AND MILAN RADOVIC, THE SPECIFIC ACCENT FOR this point of the agenda, you have received proposals on the approval of the detention of Ljubomir Vučković, Judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia and Milan Radovanovic, Deputy Prosecutor of the Special Prosecutor, who was submitted by the Administrative Board. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time for debate of parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motions for decisions. Is proposal representative Petar Cvetkovic, vice-president of the Administrative Board, reporting for a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the other MPs want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you, pursuant to Article 73, that there have been no reports of a word in the order of the application. I'm concluding a unique search of the motions for decisions. Since we have conducted a unique search of the motions for decisions, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the proposals for decisions, in general. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of the single agenda item of this session, pursuant to Article 85(3). I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Friday 16 September 2005 as the day for the vote. We'll approach the vote immediately, at 16.47 p.m. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search of the motions for decisions, we move on to a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision to approve the detention of Ljubomiru Vukkovic, the Supreme Court of Serbia judge. For 185, one of the 186 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to approve the detention of Ljubomiru Vukkovic, judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia. I am putting the motion for a decision to approve the detention of Milan Radovanovic, deputy special prosecutor. For 189, of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to approve the detention of Milan Radovanovic, deputy special prosecutor. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on the sole item of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the 13th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you for having responded in this time.
