ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13910	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 121 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there is no quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I'm taking a 15-minute break. [[After break – 13,20]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, to determine the quorum, please insert your cards into the identification units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 84 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum needed for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Goran Jaksic, Goran Ilic, Milos Aligrudić, Arsen Đurić, Gašo Knezevic, Dragor Hiber and Dejan Rajčić; Aleksandar Radosavljevic, Zoran Nikolic and Gordana Comić (before noon). We move on to the 6th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE SEMEN LAW (the follow-up in particular) I remind you that the National Assembly has suspended its work during the review of the amendment to Article 2. The bill, submitted by MP Zoran Masic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13912	The Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my distinguished colleague, Dr Zoran Masic, has tabled an amendment to Article 2 of this bill, which consists of the removal of Article 1(2)'s position. I share the concern of my esteemed colleague Mašić so that genetically modified organisms can be dragged into our seed plants at a small door. I think that this possibility, which opens up if we adopt the amendment, would also be a small door for genetically modified organisms to slip into our country's seed. Given that the large doors are closed by the 2001 Law on genetically modified organisms, I believe that by adopting this amendment, or by applying this law, it would allow for small doors to grow genetically modified organisms. Therefore, the G17 Plus parliamentary group will not support Mr Mašić's amendment precisely because we do not feel that our country needs genetically modified organisms, because we can produce sufficient health-resistant and healthy food and without genetically modified organisms.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13913	Thank you. The word was given by MP Vladislav Kronic, authorised representative of G17 Plus. Now he has the word of the People's Messenger of Pai Momchilov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13914	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are starting to work today, and we see that there is no government official here, Madam Minister. It's already a common manner of applying G17 Plus ministers to come here, insult MPs and the Assembly, and then leave the non-emergent to defend them. It is a cowardly and shameful position, which we already know for who knows which way we are experiencing in the National Assembly of Serbia. I'd go back on the subject, and that's a member of the 2nd law. A representative of the Serbian Radical Party, Professor Masic, suggested that article 2 be deleted. He says that, as the argument puts it, we want to prevent the possibility of genetically modified food entering the small door. How's the little door? It means not to be allowed, through experimentation, through scientific research, to enter this seed into our country and to come to our soil, where it would allegedly be examined. That's quite clear. A respected colleague said earlier that this matter was regulated by federal law. What does the federal law say? The federal law of 2001 says that production and distribution are prohibited, as is the transport of genetically modified food in our country. If that is true, that the production and planting of genetically modified food is not allowed, why are we importing genetically modified food? I would remind you that 300,000 tonnes of genetically modified food were imported during last year, from January to September. How is it that these genetically modified foods are imported into this country uncontrollably, and we are referring to federal law? If we're not going to produce and distribute this genetically modified food, why are we importing it? The famous solution by the Vice-President of the former Federal Government, Mr. Labus, who I now hold in my hand, was unauthorized at one of the federal government's sessions, and the members of the government do not know that such a decision has been made, decided to import a genetically modified soy shotgun into this country. Now we have a flood of imports of these foods. Someone will say that genetically modified food is not dangerous. I'm not going to elaborate here whether or not it's dangerous genetically modified food, the press has written about it, and there's Professor Ranin's opinion, and I wouldn't list other experts, who talk about that nobody can say that genetically modified food isn't dangerous. In this country, thanks to the minister, I feel free to say to Mrs Ivani Dulic, who is the promoter of the company "Monsanto", for which we have evidence and for which we can provide, at the large door, the import of genetically modified food. What's gonna happen to our kids? What's going to happen to the allergy that that food can cause, and it's probably causing at a higher percentage, we don't know that. There are no adequate tests in this country to determine in vitro allergy. This test does not exist in this country, and in all developed countries of the world it exists. I have a food list imported into our country, I mean that genetically modified food, what is the percentage of genetic modification. The European Union says that up to 3% of genetic modification is allowed in imports, and no one can tell you what the percentage of these modifications here are of imported genetically modified soybeans. Therefore, we feel that it is absolutely necessary to adopt this attitude. What I'm saying is that if we're allowed to bring that little seed to a small door like this, a disaster can happen to us. I'll set an example from two years ago, when we got a present from the FAO from 20,000 seedlings of apples for Serbia. They were all infected with a bacterium that caused poisoning, which could destroy not only the plant that was brought in but also the surrounding plants found in the soil. What happened? The inspectors have banned it. Mrs. Ivana Dulic ran to the border to import such herbs. Such plants, thank God, are not imported, it's returned. There was a proposal to burn these plants in our country; however, the plants were returned, and immediately afterwards we got 20,000 completely healthy seedlings. When we know what Ms. Minister is doing and that she is one of the promoters of the multinational company Monsanto, we must be careful and absolutely necessary to accept this proposal too, Mr. Mašić. Thank you. [[Applause in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13915	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Moma Markovic. I'm sorry, as far as I can see, it's the replica of Mr. Vladislav Kronic, the authorised representative of G17 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13916	I have a replica to present my esteemed colleague, Momchilov. The truth is, for this speaker, a lot of findings have been made during the previous debate that are not exactly true. Between 1997 and 2001, 250,000 tonnes of soybeans were imported into the country. As for the US government's donation of 25,000 tonnes, imported after 2000, as I said, the donation was received for solving certain social problems from the previous period. However, one is imports of genetically modified organisms, and the other is imports of products from genetically modified organisms. As for soya buckshot, this country does not have enough to meet the needs of feed and, of course, import is necessary. There's a program to solve this. It is the government's programme, the government of Vojislav Kostunica, in which Ivana Dulic-Markovic holds the post of Minister of Agriculture. The solution is very simple. We need to raise soy to 200,000 hectares, and with three tons of soy we have quite enough soy from unmodified soy juice. The subsidies, which relate to the depletion of soybean production, are currently being stimulated. That's clear. Of course, no new organism can be produced from genetically modified soybean, because this soybean has passed a certain chemical treatment, it has been extracted from it by using certain solvents - hexane. It is thermally processed and used as such as cattle. The soybean soybean shotgun cannot give a new organism, as it has not been scientifically proven that the use of that soy bean can cause certain changes in animals, especially in humans. Therefore, this country will still have to import soybean soybean soybeans produced from soybeans that will be more than 5% genetically modified. If the measures that encourage the production of soybeans in this country are brought to an end, we will soon be free of the imports of soybeans for the purposes of our livestock production.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13917	The word has an MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13918	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the discussion of the predecessors has been about my discussion since Thursday, first, I'm using the right to replication, and then I'm going to talk about the amendment. Convince us, sir, that no new soybean can be produced from genetically modified soybeans. Normally, when it's processed. Now I'm asking you, are the genes modified in that genetically modified soybean, made of soy shotgun? They did. Then why did you plant so many plots for people who planted that genetically modified soybeans - to import and sell to the citizens. As far as this is concerned, it wasn't 25,000 tons of donation. First, it wasn't a donation, but it was paid by Serbian citizens. Maybe they didn't pay America, but they paid "Blood Product" because all 50,000 tons of soy soy soy juice from genetically modified soybeans went through the Cromivo mills and went to feed our cattle. So much for that. As for this second part, I have here nine contracts directly approved by Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic for the import of genetically modified soybeans. What's the difference between genetically modified soybeans produced in America, then made of shotgun, or, say, genetically modified soybeans in Srem? They're poisoning both of them, but you can't get a commission on this stuff. That's the point. The Monsanto firm doesn't give a commission for genetically modified Sreme strain. So don't deceive people anymore. I have here a document from the Association of Tobacco Producers. At a time when the minister was Mrs. Dulic, Philip Morris forced farmers from the Nisco County to meet the genetically modified NC19 and NC55 "Virginia". Six to seven years they couldn't pick up anything, a decimated possession, ingested disease, I'll read to you what it's called, and six to seven years of these parcels are unusable. I'll tell you later on in your ear, seeing as you're putting your hand on your ear, you can't hear. So whether genetically modified organisms are imported into this country or not, I don't think we should talk anymore. SRS MP Zoran Masic submitted an amendment to Article 2 and asked for Article 1 to be deleted. Article 1 of the basic law states: "The provisions of this law do not apply to the production and transport of genetically modified seed of agricultural plants, the distribution of agricultural plants and myceliums of edible and medicinal mushrooms." Here's a way for you to import all genetically modified organisms at a large door, in accordance with the law, if you adopt it, and eventually poison what's left of us clean, and that's that agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13919	The People's Messenger of Pai Boys. I assume you're referring to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13920	Dear People’s MPs, I appeal to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, article 100 - misreading. Exactly what I said, that's what's happening. The one we need to match here isn't here, he's run away cowardly, and those poor people are now exposed here, our colleagues, indecency. They're doing ministerial work and they have to defend what's indefensible. I didn't say that no genetically modified food had been imported before, but you yourself gave a nice piece of information for a previous period -- what is that amount of soy juice. I told you about this information of yours, that it was twice as much imported only last year, until September 300,000 tons. I made it clear that this modified soy shotgun is dangerous. It goes into cattle feed, then into food, that's what our kids eat, and all of us eat. We have growth and cancer here, as well as malformation, which is of no interest to anyone, as well as to the allergic diseases of our children, which nobody here cares about. And just one reason is what's happening to us with genetically modified food. To be perfectly clear, my colleague says we need to plant a little more soy, so that's the solution. Why wouldn't it be a solution to import genetically unmodified soybeans, and the import price, and for that we have evidence, is exactly the same genetically unmodified soybeans as genetically modified? Whoever takes the money in their pocket, that's another question. So let's not compromise with thesis. Listen to what we're saying. We're behind it, we've got the paperwork for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13921	National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13922	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it's all connected. If the Minister of Health is from one political group and the Minister of Agriculture is from the same, and if all that was said by the president of the Assembly Committee on Health, the esteemed colleague of Dr. Paja Momchilov, and you know it, then it's not us. Something wrong, ma'am? [[tossing out of the O.R.]] He's not an esteemed colleague or what? Doctor, one of your colleagues tried to throw something foolishly, but since the entire Serbian health community knows that you are a man of dignity, above all, a reputation and morality, and that you are always telling the truth, and that you are ready to tell the current health minister as well as what he has done in your area, so today, as a man who, above all, is a Serbian radical, and then the president of the Health Committee, you have warned the public of the disability of such a member of the law. Professor Zoran Mašić, as a professor at the Faculty of Agriculture and as an MP of the SRS, wanted to tell you by eradicating this attitude in Article 2 that it is not only something that is devastating for the health of people, but also a great crime. These documents, presented by counterpart Momir Markovic, are authentic. By collecting thousands and thousands of tons, we came up with a fantastic number of 50,000. You can only imagine how much commission there is on one such job for one woman and for a click around it. The second question is, if we speak in the context of the untruth that the minister placed on the Serbian public, which, otherwise, does not belong intimately, which can be seen from the second part of her statement -- what is the structure of participation in agriculture in the external trade deficit in those seven to nine billion euros, and then genetically modified soybeans. Look a little bit and deal with it, you at the Ministry of Agriculture, now I have to speak to you, ma'am, because even today, the minister has not honored the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to come and talk to her. We Serbian radicals will until the end of the debate in detail about this law to tell you that not only is Minister Dulic-Markovic, but also Tomica Milosavljevic – he should be directly interested in this member, what the citizens of Serbia eat and whether they are healthy; by the way, if they have something to eat, because it is such misery and poverty, and you are unable to fix it and improve it. Then we must put everything in the package to blow you away and wipe you out, because the people will no longer. Not Kostunica and those around him, not so incompetent people and frauds, not those sold for a handful of euros, and some for larger foreign exchange accounts on various islands. Not the MPs who are ready for their stay and the silent observation of what's going on here, to support such a government. The government in which the minister is respected and is implementing such a law, i.e. intending to implement such a law and continue to behave, doesn't deserve either for Serbian farmers or for children in Serbia to survive one single day, and be sure that you are so armed with a lifetime that you will wonder what has reached you over a period of time. Fortunately for the citizens of Serbia, there is a solution to this. We will never bring any individual into a situation to imagine himself above or on a member of his family whether he will eat healthy food, live normally in this country, or whether someone will rob him over taxes, which with a hard time this Dinkic of yours is now paying. We'll do everything we can to make sure that you're no longer in this congregation, and where you're going to walk and what you're going to do in private life, we're not interested in that. You are a political past, and that primarily refers to the government and the party that is the headquarters of the gathering, which is not asked, because such as Markovic, Tomica Milosavljevic, Dinkic and others are actually setting the fate of the Serbian people, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13923	MP Vojkan Tomic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13924	I'm advertising a breach of article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, since we were able to hear from the previous speaker a bunch of lies concerning parliamentary groups that make up the majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Gentlemen of the Radicals, as we have seen today that you have begun to crown yourself, I ask you not to deceive the Serbian public anymore, not to mention the Cayman Islands, that you do not disturb the citizens of Serbia from this assembly booth, because all of what you are saying exceeds the more social demagogue, which you are otherwise serving, because we have not heard of any of you having any program. If you have something, and it's about this agenda point, and we're talking about agriculture, give something from your program, give something about agriculture, do something useful for this country, don't just talk to this pay phone and deceive Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13925	You on behalf of the Radical Party? It seems to me that an authorised representative...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13926	Mr. Mihailovic, Serbian Radical Party...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13927	No, let me tell you, an authorised representative is second, not you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13928	Never mind, Mr. Mikhailovich...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13929	It's all right.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13930	Mr. Mikhailovich, I should ask you now: whose representative you are, because you probably don't represent anyone about your party, but you can see that I'm a nice and cultural person, so I'm not going to tell you that. You imagine the fact that you represent the party. I'm representing the SRS, but I didn't answer as an authorized promoter, but, if you'll allow me to replicate my fellow responders, Private. So, Vojkan, a member of a party that doesn't actually exist, a newborn in the DSS, so I can't remember your last name right now. Mr. Tomic, as far as you're concerned about what the SRS program is, don't worry about it. You're a man who likes to be informed, and mostly during the assembly session, read all the daily and weekly press. If you open any of these newspapers, and you're very jealous of reading the press every day, it's your job in that group, you can see that the ratings of the SRS are growing more and more every day. More than 40% of Serbia's citizens, now that we're not going to shoot down your government, and we're going to bring it down safely, are ready to show confidence to the SRS. As for you and what your program is and your party, let your fellow Members who have generously accepted you tell you, don't worry. It would be best if you took care of the place where you came from, about your hometown, where you don't normally go and where you're running for the election list of the non-existent party, and later found the arrest just to stay an MP. What kind of a Serbian radical programme for farmers is best spoken of in response to everything we did last week – pointing to the argument, as we have done since this morning, or since the afternoon as your quorum stands – what is the SRS programme. Not only that, I wasn't just talking about the Minister of Agriculture, I was talking about the Minister of Finance. I think it's enough for a normal and smart man to speak for two and a half hours, which Mr. Vukic gave you, to know what kind of society you're in and what kind of government you support.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13931	The word has a People's MP, Alexander Vucic, a replica. That's exactly what he's saying you didn't have the right to say. That's how it turned out. It's not direct. That's where we're arguing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13932	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I share your happiness and joy for the coronation, as you say, I don't know what. I have to tell you that you've crowned, and above all, and you need to worry about that, I suppose that's why you're particularly happy and happy, you crowned this country, because you started kidnapping people in pajamas and slippers, and taking them to The Hague. You left a man's glasses on the table because you wouldn't let him take it either. His family couldn't see him. He went so voluntarily to The Hague that neither his wife nor his children saw him nor heard him. The first time they heard from Rotterdam, where they gave him a decent civilian suit. So much for you talking about legalism and how you don't want to get arrested. If you're saying that it's not true what I said, I'm going to refer to members of the Lukic family, who will certainly not agree on a single word and eyewitnesses who have seen three bandits, including about 40 bandits in several vehicles, who have been represented as secret police, and I'm counting on them, who are not dressed as police and who are not working on the Constitution and the law to do business, to be ordinary bandits. I don't know what other name to call them. As for the affairs of political parties, look at all of you here that gathers, we so many crowned have to fight twice, watch you stand and look at your prospects. As far as we're concerned, we don't have any kind of problem with that. We know what you're doing against the SRS. Just a few days ago, orders were coming into the media, so don't let go of what the radicals say. So yesterday on private television, which broadcasts the news at 3:55 p.m., a statement was not released that made it clear that you kidnapped General Lukic. Why? Because someone to God has torn up a Serbian radical statement on a direct order from the Serbian government. The same thing happened on Pink TV and on Serbian Television, where our words from the statement were changed. It was said, I guess, against the law, where we said the man was kidnapped. You're afraid of the truth. You're afraid of words. You are afraid of what Serbian citizens see at every turn. It doesn't mean anything that you're going to tell Serbian citizens something against the SRS, which you're going to invent somewhere, because you don't know what else you're going to do. One day we're fighting, Tom Nikolic and I, the other day we're fighting, Tom, Maya and me, but there's no telling who. On the third day, you will also involve Dragan Todorovic. The fourth day we all fight, but we don't know what we're fighting about, and the fifth day we're one with Seselj, and the other are against it. Day six, we're all against Seselj. Come on, guys, make a deal. The seventh day, after all, you stole everything, took everything from this people, and began to kidnap people. That's what happened in the end. Some became masters. That's what happened on the eighth day. Ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens of Serbia, don't worry about us in the SRS. We're healthy and well. Slowly, but surely, and not by burning down congregations, not by breaking down doors, carrying hackers by people's banks, or I don't know where, but by democratic means, by the will of the citizens, by people to go to elections, by rounding up the regular number in front of the SRS list or the Serbian radical candidates, so we will beat you. Then you'll be able to continue these stories. I believe you'll find it harder to get a doctorate, a master's degree and everything else, a little harder, because there's gonna be some law. I'm counting on you not to be able to kidnap people without saying they've surrendered voluntarily.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13933	Mr. Wolfie, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13934	Mr. Michaelovich, I believe you are a truly honorable man. Tell me if you've heard of anyone going anywhere voluntarily in pajamas and slippers. I didn't hear it. No one in Serbia heard it. It would be more comical if it weren't tragic and it wasn't the fate of a man and the fate of a family. If only you had taken a man to say goodbye to his family, to kiss his children, his wife or something else; no, but the bandits there waited for him, and now you expect someone to say they're not bandits. They're just bandits. Only they didn't put black hats on their heads. They're not handcuffs. They're pointing a gun. He says, "Come on, get inside." He says, "He's not arrested for handcuffs." Thank you, Mr. Mikhailovich, for your kindness. I am sure that you will continue to manage this assembly body in such a sovereign way when you are chairing and that you will do your job properly, because in the future we expect you to be in one of the vice-presidential places, only the next time after the election will we have a presidential and one or two vice-presidential. I'm sure you'll find that place, too. We democratically accept it, and you, too, I am confident, will accept with great pleasure, I would say, what is already obvious today, and that is a change in the will of the people, that people will not be such power, not kidnappers, but they want honest people, who will fight thieves and kidnappers to fight.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13935	Just order to determine. National MP Mika Vlaović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13936	Advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, article 100 - an MP should speak about what is on the agenda. Mr. Wolf, as informed as I am, you were an excellent student. You've said this a few times - you're thieves, you're this, you're that. The group verdict was only in fascism. If he's a thief, he has a name and a last name, there's a prosecutor's office, we need to talk about other things here. There's something else as a farmer I have to say here. One law that's about agriculture, and it's only the third in a year, it's about replicas and stories that have nothing to do with the law. You want to make the farmers happy and the agriculture; you will not make them happy with this work.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13937	And Vojkan Tomic has a replica. There is also Dusan Prophetic. On what grounds? (Dusan Prorokovic, from the post: Deputy Chief of Parliament Club). He has the advantage, then the Wolf, then you, Mr. Tomic. On what grounds? You're giving a replica... Here you go, Mr. Prophet.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13938	You had a replica after Mr. Vojkan Tomic reported to the Rules of Procedure. I'm entering your line, according to Article 83(1). The Rules of Procedure of the Serbian Parliament. Mr. Vukic, you're very good at using information or half-information to manipulate them, that's your right. Your right is to fight in such a way for the political rating of your party, for your political rating personally, but I don't think it's good to politicise everything, not in the Assembly, not on the political scene, because that's how we just cause new fights and get into a unnecessary spiral of disagreement, which stops our way forward. Mr. Sreten Lukic is, and everything concerning his extradition, I will remind you, I have signed and accepted the indictment of The Hague tribunal. According to my knowledge, there were no handcuffs, no forced arrests. If you used the term kidnapping, then you should have said that someone forged his signature on the charges, which is not true and absolutely not standing. And if you want to help him and his family, it's best not to politicize this case. I would like, in the coming weeks, General Lukic's fate to be the same as the fate of General Lazarevic, which is that after long work and long struggles, both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and other institutions in this country, people are allowed to defend themselves from freedom, which is a precedent and is the success of the ruling majority, however you interpret it. As for the changes you are constantly advocating, if the 2/3 of the amendments that your parliamentary group has submitted are deleted and this is not an advocate for a change, but a return to the old one.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13939	National MP Alexander Vucic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13940	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you had no right to give your word to Mr. Prophetic, but we are gentlemen and we never make a problem here, because I came out on the basis of the right to a replica, not the Rules of Procedure. Whatever. So we are not referring to what we are making up or because something has occurred to us, or because someone is glad to do something similar in Serbia. This is what the members of General Lukic's family told us. Not family members to lie, not to be lied to by five people who saw General Lukic abducted directly from the hospital. Not all these people are gonna make it up. Why do you care now, don't make any more politics, let's call all the editors-in-chiefs, let's keep them out of it. I don't mind, it's a matter of truth. The truth is that General Lukic was kidnapped, he himself informed the lawyer, who yesterday was interesting, you will note, in his first statement made to RTTV PINK at 12:30, accused the authorities of kidnapping, and then his statement dramatically changed after two phone calls. I know exactly who sent those phone calls. If you say it's not true, I'll tell you exactly who sent those calls, and then only after General Lukic's call from Rotterdam has the man repeated the story that there was kidnapping, that he was kidnapped, that he was passed past his will to The Hague tribunal, etc. I know it's hard for you when you're told that you're no different from the ones you accused yesterday of the worst crimes in this matter. That doesn't make any difference, with this being even more immoral. I agree with Mr. Vlaovic, he's right. It is not necessary and it is impossible to pass this type of group verdict, it is made in The Hague tribunal, they are grouped and charged. The one you support and the one you co-operate with so deeply. I could name names, but it would take me a lot of time today, and by the end of my day, I wouldn't be able to count all of them, how many of them are on the list, and how they're doing everything about the cost of the state. I apologize for that. As for that, you're absolutely right, Mr. Vlaovic. There's one more thing to ask, you looking forward to, I don't know if there's anyone on any municipal committee that's had a fight with someone, so I don't know what happened. Is that you, who chased us down the halls to go to Djokovic, in accordance with the law and the Rules of Procedure, we took a mandate, so we kept quiet, we didn't tell you about it, because we know that such unfortunate people have always been and will always be everywhere. Then why don't you talk about it? Why don't you just shut up? Where did you get the courage to say something like that? You don't know that man's name and name. You have no idea who he is. He never went out for a pay phone. They want to kick him out of the municipal board, so now, come on, blame him on Toma, Vukic, Todorovic and everyone else, because they're going to fight with each other or I don't know what. How can you use something like that? How can you be ashamed of yourself? You'll talk about it, you have double morals. Over here, come on, hurry up and let's finish this thing in accordance with the law to give us back our mandate, and over here, you've begun to crown yourself. And so we crown ourselves that where we have 50 people on the stands, now we have 400 and 500; so we crown where we had 500 in our halls now people can't get in, there's more than 2,000 per salami. So we crown that every week we have, believe it or not, 2,000 new members at the level of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13941	Mr. Wolfie, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13942	I'm done. Mr. Prophetovic, none of us in the SRS want evil to Serbia. Don't give us that. This story of how one of us wants to be as bad as possible, so it's going to be better for us or I don't know what; no, we want Serbia much better. I don't think you could have wished for a more correct opposition in Serbia's parliament than the SRS. Whether it's majority or not, that's what voters are going to decide. Even today, when you are the government, you should not boast of it, you have only 30 MPs less than the SRS, and wait for the elections to come, you will have more than 80 MPs less than the SRS. But that's the way. By the way, Mr. Prophetovic, all that was in the interest of the state -- we voted for it; everything about Kosovo and Metohija, and we voted for it, right? Yes, it is. Whoever didn't respect it, who didn't want to negotiate and talk about it, think carefully. But the Minister of Agriculture comes out here and she's salting our minds about how someone was carrying peaches; well, she was transporting, not peaches, not people, I don't even know what she was carrying, she was trading, if I had to tell the Kurds and the Afghans, because she's going to accuse all of Serbia of not knowing what she was doing. I've never driven anyone in my life by trucks, she's been carrying it, and now you're going to tell someone in such a way that you place the hardest brand on Serbia that murderers, blood-suckers, murderers, and blood-suckers were sitting in this congregation...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13943	Please, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13944	I've exceeded time, and you've exceeded all normal and moral civilized norms when you start kidnapping people in Serbia. And this kidnapping of men will return to you, if by anything else, by what the one above sees everything, and in any case you will see those who play with the fates of the people, the fates of the families, that one returns everything from above. As for us, we will return to the elections, not the poles, not the rifles, not the hackers, not the freezers, but the ballot boxes, the paper and the pens, the way people are rounding up, and then you will see how you've got so many crowns, and how we, crowned and uncoupling, are getting bigger and stronger in the crowd. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13945	The word has a People's MP, Vojkan Tomic, I presume, according to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13946	My previous announcement was intended to go back to this item on the agenda, but when someone was provoked by the speech of the previous MP, which contains no point, no comma from what is on the agenda, then someone has to react to it. Nor is it my intention to turn this congregation into a tribune, to call out, to call out one another, and so I see what the predecessor was saying. The DSS's intensity is not to destabilise any institution in this country, and if it is in the interest of Serbian radicals, I will agree with every word of the previous speaker, because the DSS is a state-of-the-art party and all that it does is in the interest of Serbia's improvement. And like my DSS colleagues, I'll always be against every speech from this pay phone that has any other intonation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13947	Excuse me, did you mention that I didn't hear you mention it? I'll give you my word if you mention it, but I have no impression that MP Vojkan Tomic mentioned you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13948	Mr. Mihailovich, as you now see me, so he saw me within three metres of the pay phone, and I do not appear to you, nor to him. So again, said a colleague, a previous speaker, i.e. he resented that I was reportedly not talking about a member of the law and about the seed law, but only in the negative context of the DSS, whose member is Vojkan Tomic. Mr. Tomic, criticising the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Health and Kostunica, who brought them all together, because he's the prime minister, I only said what you and a couple of your party colleagues were saying before you came into the new flock, to the DSS, then while you were at Vuksanovic's party, and I can't imagine how in three or four months you've so drastically changed your attitude and opinion, and now you're challenging me what's absolutely true. What you were saying, and that this government is such that Kostunica is such that these people who are in the ministries, above all from the G-17 group, are not incompetent, but have committed many acts against the people and the law, I have only made absolutely the truth that hurt you at one point. Then why did you find yourself called, why didn't someone more powerful come out of the DSS? You're not still on probation, with a new membership card, that you have to prove loyalty. You don't have to, because what I said is absolutely true and it will prove true.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13949	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Micovic. Since the Government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government has proposed that this amendment be accepted. The Committee on Agriculture has proposed that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13950	I'd like to ask you to establish a quorum, so we can proceed with the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-05-0.u13951	Please, the right to request the establishment of the quorum has just been authorised by the representative or the president of the parliamentary group. It's my right and it's not an obligation, but I'll adopt it. Please confirm the quorum. Since there's no quorum, break until 2:30. [[After break – 15,20]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since we don't have a quorum, we interrupt today's work. We'll continue the session tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
