ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22611	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 100 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, more than one third of the MPs are present in the hall and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Snezana Stojanović-Plasic, Ivana Kovacevic, Donka Banovic, Aleksandar Lazarevic, Suzanne Grubjesic, Miroslav Markicevic and Nadica Momirov. We move to the 5th point of the agenda: – PROPOSITION OF THE OŽONA Oslav BANKAMA (specificities) You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the law by the MPs: Mita Avramov, Dragoljub Anastasovski, Zoran Antić, Veroljub Arsić, Igor Bečić, Branislav Blažić, Milorad Bja, Milan Vjevinović, Živan Vladimirović, Boban Vojnović, Milivoje Vučić, Aleksandar Vučić, Gordana Gajic, Rodoljub Gačević, Darko Glišić, Jostrđević, Tihomir Djeluković, Miloš Živić, Radisa Duvnjak, Goran Dunjić, Milovar Dužić, Milović, Milovar Dužinić, Mirdžić, Mirdžić, Mior Djodrđić, Tihodrđević, Tihodrđević, Tihodrić, Tihomir Djur, Tihomir Žvić, Tihomir Žvić, Dragan Zvić, Žvić, Slav. You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. An MP named Mit Avramov submitted to the 1st Amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Dragoljub Anastasovski submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Dragoljub Anastasovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22612	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. A bill on banks on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, which requires that this member be deleted. However, first of all, I must say, according to the old custom, there is no Minister in charge to attend this debate, so that he may accept some amendment, but well, what is there. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should not be a voting machine in office of G17 plus the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The proposed law on banks should undermine all abuses of Mladjan Dinkic and his friends, so it was delivered to the MPs just before the start of the debate, so that they could not study the law through the debate in the Assembly to inform the public of the intentions of Mladjan Dinkic. Regardless of all attempts by the minister and the government to make it difficult for us to work, the SRS parliamentary group will participate in the debate on the Bill on Banks on all amendments. I think the resolute minister and the government were late with this bill, because they should have brought it much earlier, that is, before the destruction of the banking system and the closure of almost all domestic banks, and therefore I don't see the purpose of this law, unless you plan on making all the illegal and criminal acts that you have committed, justifying and legalising. In my opinion, it would be much better to discuss today the draft law on foreign banks in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which do nothing like mushrooms and work very well, but only for themselves. No country in the environment has such high interest rates as we do and, therefore, banks have huge profits, all of which could have been done by our domestic banks and that profits remain in Serbia. Due to all this, the SRS parliamentary group will not vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22613	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22614	Again without a minister and again without a governor who is in charge of this matter, and may even be a bill promoter. Practically, there's a new bank law being passed, so the public in the Republic knows what it's all about. When you pass this law, it will cease to apply the Law on Banks and Other Financial Organisations, which is the law that was passed in 1993, which suffered changes in 1995 and 1999, and in 2002, 2003 and 2005. So today is the second time we've talked about a banking system at norm level and regulations that need to regulate bank operations. Why is this law coming and whether the existing Law on Banks and Financial Organizations poses an obstacle? To avoid improvisation, to read what the National Bank and the Ministry of Finance have long been saying is that it is necessary to do in our banking system, so you can assess whether it is justifiable and whether it is necessary to do it at this time. This is a continuation of foreign investors' policy on buying bank shares in majority domestic ownership, as well as supporting the addition of certain banks to meet the prescribed operating criteria. It's been a continuous task since 2002. In translation, it can be interpreted - destroyed until the last atom, that there is no domestic bank, and all that exists on our domestic market must be foreign bank, foreign capital, not the name and name of the director, it is important that the founder be someone from abroad. Further, changes in the banking sector's ownership structure, both based on the state's conversion of demand based on the Paris and London Club's ownership stake, and through a significant increase in foreign banks' participation in the balance sheet. So, all the strategic definitions in the country concerning the banking system are always prefixed "no". Then, the implementation of all activities related to the privatisation of banks, which counts to be completed in 2005, with regard to the remaining banks -- Jugobanka, Novosadska Banka, Continental Banka, Vojvodjanska Banka, Niška Banka, Pannonian Banka, Kredi Banka from Kragujevac. I'm reading what's an official NBS document. Something has been done and done in the meantime, so it may seem that this report is not current at the moment, but I am talking about the definition of official policy in the Republic of Serbia, the strategic objectives they set in the banking sector. As the crown of all this comes this bill of banks, which today is on the agenda. Further, faster population savings than previous years, because, apparently, when a foreign bank is, the savings stake is safer. The following objectives: to come up with a normative solution that will allow the credit rating of potential bank stockholders, in the case of acquisition of more than 15% of the share capital; improving the information system; granting consent to banks to conduct brokerage and dealings, etc. This is all in one of the studies, i.e. it has its real name - the state report in the country's banking and overall financial system. So, the first stage, according to the governors and finance minister, according to them, the stabilisation, resuscitation, and by me and by the members of the SRS, and by the majority of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the first stage was the fundamental destruction and formation of the new banking market, not only of the banking market, but of the capital markets, the securities of value, the total financial market in which it will manage the ino factor. What is stated in the explanation that this law is in line with certain standards and that, apparently, there is our obligation to bring our banking system into line with these standards is probably for this group that is staring at banks and the banking system the most important excuse. They say, the definition of the Basel Committee for Bank Control, or for the quality of capital, as it should stand in the right and original translation, only indicates that some request by the IMF in this part should strengthen what we all know and what we all feel, which is that the ino-capital is dominant in our banking system, does not work us, does not work for our economy, but because of those whom this government and the previous one gave our complete market to the plate. As a result, the ino-monopol appears in Serbia, so that from the ino-capitals, the ino-founder depends on life in the Republic of Serbia, both on the business and on this human everyday life. We've become hostages of foreign banks, and the bank is just a piece of paper that creates money and, as a rule, money without cover, and brings out that basic substance from every citizen, from every economic operator. This law represents the crown of the success of Mladjan Dinkic, Jelasic and others who have understood their position in power -- that they must do everything to whoever has hired them. That's why we've put up with this number of amendments, to point out by each article and each amendment the long-term adverse effects on the banking system and on the economy of this country, so if you mention that famous stocking and those hackers, that Cyprus, Paris and the London Club, where there's a non-existent debt that exists in the papers, you know how bankers code it, it's no problem for them, just to point out what a destructive policy is and what all the consequences expect us to do. We who claim to the future power must do everything in advance, if we can, to save what can be saved.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22615	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22616	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the law on banks is an extremely important law for all citizens, and above all for Serbia's economy. I think we should all share the view that the way he came before the MPs was inappropriate, inadmissible, because overnight, in a set of laws that are extremely important and regulate all areas, particularly health and finance, this law was found, and that there was not enough time for the professional public to commit himself to this law, and neither did we MPs, unfortunately, had enough time, because by an emergency procedure he was included in the Assembly's session. As far as the importance of the law is concerned, as I said, it has great importance for the entire economy. The current behaviour of the government and the ministry, when it comes to the banking market, also make it an unsatisfactory SRS. Our assessment is that the most damage has been done in the banking sector in the previous two years, and above all through one privatisation where neither a vision is seen nor a strategy is seen. Without strategy and vision, the government has set out to destroy all Serbian banks. This law, which is before us, only has the goal of getting this job started and, above all, done in the course of this year, being completed. We have no reason, no justification by the government, to approach the privatisation of all Serbian banks, which is why at least a few banks have not been preserved, which is why there has been no integration of certain Serbian banks and the creation of perhaps some bank that would be the leader of these banking areas and which would guarantee that in some future period we will be able to implement some economic policy. We have in this way lost important mechanisms that can affect all economic movements, and in which the situation of the economy has no need to even speak, it is felt daily by citizens through growing poverty, a growing number of jobs, an increasing indifference of the economy. Unfortunately, that may be the biggest damage this government has done to Serbian citizens since coming to power. When it comes to competition that emerged on the banking market, it is obvious and there has always been a commitment from the SRS to allow competition in all markets, as well as in the banking market. That's a far-reaching goal. In any case, it would be a cheaper and more efficient banking system. It seems to me that after a year of privatization almost the entire banking sector, we have neither received a cheaper nor more efficient banking system. Interests that are the best measure of the efficiency of a system are still too large for our economy. Credits offered are still mostly short-term loans. These are loans to the current liquidity of our economy. All in all, no positive shift has been made when it comes to lending our economy, and hence the possibility of Serbia's more serious economic development. I mean, in the previous year, we got a more favourable credit rating, so it was expected to have a more serious drop in interest. This, in my view, did not first of all happen because we have a short-term economic policy, which is burdened by inflation and, unfortunately, the effects we could expect from the privatisation of certain banks through competition in the market have melted into the fact that high banking interest was being tried by the government to affect inflation reduction, regardless of what will take place in the long term and how it will affect the economic growth and the standard of all our citizens. The government is very often boasting about the savings that are large among Serbian citizens. It's just an illusion. The fact is that around 1.5 billion are in deposits with banks around Serbia today. It is only about 25 per cent to 30 per cent of the total potential of Serbian citizens. There is still great money, as people say, in straws, and the fact is that only high interest rates on foreign exchange stakes offered to Serbian citizens have managed to place one part of the money in the role of developing the Serbian economy. Unfortunately, much of the money would be put into business if we had a developed financial market and had a famous investment fund law, which we have been waiting for for a year in the Serbian Parliament. If all that money capacity that Serbian citizens have put into function of development, there would be more hope for all of us and faith that in some future period, through a more serious investment, we would be able to help thousands of people who have lost their jobs. The law ahead of us, which should be voted on in any case, will not give a great opportunity to the domestic banks, those banks that have not yet been privatised, because it is the obvious desire of the finance ministry to destroy the domestic banking sector. Once again, I underline, it is a great shame for the economy, it is a short-term policy, which will affect the standard and continue to be impoverished by all citizens. I thank and call for all these amendments that the SRS has submitted to you as a wish for the SRS to be regulated more seriously, so that all issues related to the banking system are settled much more transparently than they have done so far and that the opportunity, missed through the privatisation of the banking system and the reviving of the financial market, is not missed through the privatisation of possibly large public enterprises, which is ahead of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22617	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22618	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the National Assembly has before it a law on banks and it can be said that preparations for the adoption of this law have been started a few years ago. It started in late 2001, early 2002. The date is not random either, as in 2002 it began replacing EU countries' currency into euro. The real start is first shy and later mass closure of domestic banks that were mostly in social capital. What, then, did the governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, Mladjan Dinkic, want to achieve? As much as he pointed out here that these banks had to be closed, many later his actions instructed us that it should never have happened at all. What was the goal first? Large banks, owned by social property, had exposures everywhere in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Everywhere, and it was mostly an exclusive business space, which was located in city centres, with a certain infrastructure, with a certain human infrastructure and simply as such represented serious competition to certain foreign banks, who at the time did not want to have any legal relationship with their real founders and owners abroad because they did not have a certain trust in Mladjan Dinkic and Doss government that was then in Serbia. The aim of these banks was to replace all those foreign currency assets located in the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which were not in the euro, the collection, the replacement and, if possible, to make some profits. That was the first goal that wasn't very significant. Profits were big anyway, but that wasn't the primary goal. The primary goal was for foreign banks, without foreign dinars, to come up with trade funds. In this business, he helped foreign banks and certain domestic banks and then the governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, Mladjan Dinkic. By shutting down major business banks and crossing payment traffic into banks, by exempting them from the National Bank, another part of the business space was created by the National Bank itself, the Office for Accounting and Payments, which again served certain privileged banks to own the business space. In the first place, I think of the National Savings Bank, which has taken the National Bank of Yugoslavia into account the growing centres of the Institute for Accounting and Payments. The exchange, i.e. the return of the old foreign exchange debt, began, the printing of securities of values for citizens who had to wait longer, not to mention that the National Savings Bank was the most profitable in the business. When it came to the other banks that were operating here, their estimates were that there were about three, possibly four billion marks of the same time, and that was quite enough initial capital to continue these business banks. In those estimates, they were obviously wrong, because it was replaced around 7.5 billion to 8 billion marks. Anyway, that misjudge of theirs was on their hands. What happens then? We had domestic banks that were then in the social sector, which were driven out of the market and a vacuum appeared and suddenly some foreign banks appeared and then Doss government and governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, Mladjan Dinkic, are beginning to claim to the citizens, in front of the Serbian public, that these banks aim to invest in the domestic economy. How did it invest in domestic economy? The appearance of a foreign bank and a foreign name on the market wanted to create certain security among citizens who replaced Western-European currencies in the euro and leave the euro in deposit with foreign banks. That was quite a success, though the fact that these banks avoided having any legal relationship with their banks abroad. Furthermore, deposits under which citizens left their foreign exchanges ranged from 1.5% to 2% on an annual basis, and these same funds were pumped into loans, mostly short-term, both for citizens and businesses, at interest rates of 12, 14, 16, 18 and 20%. It was then claimed to be cheap loans and the goal was to show that the money had come from the side. However, in most cases, 90% and above, the money was of domestic origin, so that no one in that period was more serious then and has not yet invested in the Serbian economy, has invested in spending the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The only goal was to create a certain extraprofit because interest rates in the West move for such loans from 6 to 8%, and in our case, as you have heard and you know it yourself, they moved 14, 16, 18, and even 20 percent and more, against foreign currency, so I'm not talking about dinar loans that suffered revaluation and various interest rates, so that the percentage went to 30 and more percent on the annual level. Which of these was the greatest benefit? The biggest benefit was certainly from those who were close to the then governor of NBJ Mladjan Dinkic and profited in the job, the highest National Savings Centre, which was already available by Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic, who helped them, however, formerly, Finance Minister Bozidar Djelic and was the most profitable by the Commercial Bank, i.e. the Exposition of the Democratic Party in Banking. They took up all the business premises that had shut down banks, accounting and payment services, etc. Another objective was that, when these business banks were shut down, payment traffic was transferred to business banks, but again to reduce the number of potential competitors, i.e. competitors were only those who were privileged among themselves and that they were in charge of payment policy, i.e. the services that come into play in payment. In the meantime, the NBJ’s commission to carry out payment traffic ranged from 0.15 to 0.22, possibly 0.25% to total turnover of money during some accounting period. By moving payment traffic to commercial banks, which at that time moved around 1.5%, they increased eight to 10 times, so that it had already been in the course of 2002 as a result of unexpected inflation, because every cost that was made at the end must be installed at the price of the finished product and the greatest damage to citizens of Serbia, the economy, and the biggest benefit of the bank that was at that point close to the finance ministry. Furthermore, it began with the broadcasting of securities on a variety of grounds, the payment of children's allowances, back-to-back pensions, and again had the privilege of having the National Savings Centre, which earned on the very emissions of securities from value, and how it sought to create conditions on the market to buy about, that one dinar debt the state had bought from citizens for half a dinar and already the following year, and the securities of value charged from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Once again, the damages were caused by citizens and states. Profit: again Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic. All the current Ministry of Finance is doing and what is the aim of this law is that the condition that began to be created in late 2001 is mutilated. So those who were now privileged will now, by this law, prevent any further serious investment in the banking sector, more serious competition and from operating on the financial capital market as exclusive monopolies. That's the only real reason for a law like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22619	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22620	We continue with these amendments trying to distract us. It wasn't our intention to improve this law, it was our intention to expose it to detail so that the widest public would know the black aspects of this operation. Article 5 has a title - Jobs that can only be done by a bank. When you put something like that on the front page, it's just banking business that no one else can do. It's written here that no one but the bank can deal with receiving deposits. Item 2: "No one but the bank can deal with credit and payment cards unless it is authorised by law. "See for yourself what is in attitude 2 - no one, unless by some other law is authorized. How did this happen? This happened for one simple reason that Articles 4 and 5 had to be one member, so if it should already have a title - banking business, first of all to indicate which are purely banking transactions, then secondly to indicate what banking services are, and possibly in a third position, if there is another distinction, to indicate what financial services are. These three concepts are, you can conclude, different and have meaning. Therefore, the primary banking service, which is provided only in banks, must be the receipt of cash deposits and the approval of loans and other payments from those funds on its own behalf and for its own account, as well as the issue of payment funds in that so-called so-called ‘. electronic form, or payment cards. It's the primary banking business. If you have a bill, you will also see that in Article 4, this is referred to as the jobs that the bank can carry out. This does not make a distinction, so point 1) says, deposit transactions (receiving and laying deposits), point 2) credit transactions (give and take credit), but there is no such thing as this. The bank, in its own name and for its own account, when it is operating, and to resort to what we are proposing, is to distinguish these jobs by their views, as I have just stated, then in Article 4 paragraph 1 point 10) where it is said, insurance representation transactions, so the bank can do so if it gets consent or NBS license. Everything here is conditioned with the NBS, even those jobs that aren't originally banking business. So, in addition to these two basic jobs, deposit and credit, on their own behalf and for their own account, there should probably also be business of issuing guarantees and other funds for payment, purchase, sale and payment of claims. It's probably where the financial lease should come from, or licking, although we're aware of the fact that this licking is singled out and a special law is regulated in a different way. The National Assembly is authorized to accept such a law and the government is authorized to separate it. It would probably have to be the business of lending and inclusion in consumer loans, mortgage loans, financing of commercial transactions, and, in particular, to distinguish the transactions that the bank does in its name and in its own account, or in my own name, and for the client's account, the instruments of the charter market and other transferable securities, foreign payment funds, financial, future contracts and options, and not to read the entire range of banking services and financial services. This is where a kind of mix was made, because Article 4 and Article 5 are doing one whole, and for everything I'm saying, a representative of the government can come and say, yes, we've covered it all, but it's not in one member, it's in two members. I'm just distracting you that there's no clear limit when a bank does it on its own behalf and on its own account and when a bank does it on its own behalf for the account of a client. That's the point. Because there are no clear items, there is a kind of interference, and later provisions on restrictions on the property structure of the bank, i.e. the ability to acquire shares from five to 20, from 20, with the consent of the National Bank, etc., practically have no meaning. This is a dangerous bill that practically legalizes everything that exists in our banking market. After this law you adopt, these foreign banks or ino-capital banks will be absolutely untouchable. Why? Because it is maximum monopolies by the NBS, which has the exclusive right to control bank operations. In order to implement this concept until the end, the proposer has approached the kind of interference of the provisions of Articles 4 and 5. The bill, to do so in a watered down text and not to see the essence. The only thing that matters is in the banking business nomenclature, services, financial services and what exists as a standard. A deliberate confusion is being introduced here, as is being introduced in Article 2. The bill, because practically from that fog that stands in Article 2 follows all of this as a technical solution, as a logistics for one project. This project is based on what I said at the outset when I explained the amendment to Article 2 of this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22621	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22622	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when SRS MPs came out of the hall just before the end of the day yesterday, because Mladjan Dinkic had previously allowed himself a lot of insolence and spoken a lot of offensive words at the expense of our MPs and MPs, President Predrag Markovic said he would strictly respect the Rules of Procedure and would no longer allow anyone to insult the dignity of the National Assembly. However, we just got out of here, Mladjan Dinkic stopped again for this pay phone, with President Predrag Markovic's permission, and was again in an offensive manner expressing himself about the MPs of the SRS, the SRS parliamentary group and Predrag Markovic did not even warn him about it. Before we left, I asked Predrag Markovic, and I told him that we would get out of the O.R. and that he would study the Rules of Procedure well during the night, given that, not only yesterday, but also these days at work is an unprecedented and incredible violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I see Predraga Markovic is gone. I'm guessing he's still studying the Rules of Procedure and he should study it well. It's better that he's gone than to come unprepared. Mr. Mikhailovich, that applies to you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the minister the government has appointed to be on behalf of the government when it comes to the Bill of Banks proposal, Mladjan Dinkic, here is already 11.00 hours, and we've been working for an hour, he's not in the O.R., but he is in front of the O.R., in the hallway, drinking coffee, I don't know what he's doing... He's waiting for a bag. He's waiting for a bag; yes, since he was walking around here yesterday with some money, probably, washed up after we talked about money laundering yesterday. Speaking of yesterday's law, Dinkic also said in our absence that the MPs of the SRS had an expert part of the debate concerning what we proposed to the Money Laundering Commission instead of his administration. Everything else, he says, was stories that had nothing to do with the profession. Mladjan Dinkic could have said that yesterday, because we weren't there, but he told a big lie. All of our amendments, as well as the first one where we predicted the commission, referred to the composition of the commission, the way the commission was formed, the suspension of the commission's membership, the resolution of the commission, etc. Everything was absolutely in the work, which is certainly more professional and professional than what Mladjan Dinkic represents in this parliament and in the public of Serbia. So, Mr. Mihailovic, so that we can continue to work on the draft law on banks in particular or take a break until Mladjan Dinkic has mercy, or as I said yesterday, bring in the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22623	Mrs. Radeta, here's the finance minister, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic came, as if he'd heard you. I would like to inform the Assembly in advance that today will be a cabinet session, that it is on the agenda to consider the enforceability of the Kosovo and Metohija Resolution that we adopted the other day and that we have understanding if the minister is one part of the time and is not in the hall, because the representatives of the government are here and we will work. If we have no understanding, who else will have understanding. Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branislav Blazic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22624	Thank you, Chairman, for scaring me a little bit. All of what's written in article 6. The bill was written in a way that could not be understood and that could create confusion. This could all have been written much simpler, that the name - the bank in its business name could only use the company that was founded under this law. So, that he has the NBS license and as such is entered in the relevant register. It's the end of the story. That's how it's always been that there'd be no confusion in pay traffic. So, if the name uses the word - bank, it points to the organisational form of a company that deals with banking and which is a bank, which is evidence of that being entered into the relevant register and the NBS license. These very simple and simple requirements, which are derived from the relevant provisions of similar regulations that regulate the status of companies and the registration of companies, are here to give. He says, "The bank in its business name must have the word "bank." Item 2: "No one but the bank can have in his business name, or use the word 'bank' or a derivative of that word in the exercise of its activity. "What did we get as a guarantee? What's the condition? The condition, Mr Dinkic, is that this company has been authorised by the NBS, that it is organised in terms of this law as a bank and it has an obligation to use the word "bank" in its name and no one else can use it. Here you have given this mess and instead of being an imperative norm clearly, you say here - the bank must be represented in legal traffic as a bank; well, that's understood. This other one applies to other faces. Now it's completely changing, something's forbidden. Therefore, that name can only be used by those who have been authorised by the NBS, who have been established and organised in accordance with the provisions of the law on banks and as such entered in the relevant register. It's always been like that. Here's the law since 1993, which was the original text. You're a little left, a little right, a little bit worse, a little bit down here, and I know you wanted to tell this member what I said. It could have been so simple to say. So no one can use the word "bank" in their name unless the bank is established under the provisions of this law and organised under the provisions of this law, and for the conduct of banking operations it is authorised to operate by the NBS and as such it is registered in the relevant register of companies being conducted and there is the end of the story. Therefore, conditions are known: register, permit, organisation according to this. So the first attitude is acceptable, and the second attitude is confusing. Obviously, it is about translation, Slovenian or Croatian law you have translated, and that is abroad, you know, there are problems with words themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22625	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government has not accepted this amendment. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22626	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is already in Article 7 that there is a link to the previous discussion on amendments to Article 4 that I have submitted. So, article seven, the ban on harming the competition. It is said in point 1: "Banci is forbidden to conclude agreements that significantly prevent, restrict or disrupt competition and abuse a dominant position, or to implement a concentration that significantly prevents, restricts or disrupts competition, especially by creating a dominant position on the financial market. "In paragraph 2, it is said: "the NBS finds that there has been a breach of competition under Article 1 and that it is taking measures in accordance with this law. “ The question arises as to what kind of competition does the bank promote, or government talk? Isn't this a rule of competition violated by giving business space to the National Savings Authority, whether this rule was violated by the then government of the Republic of Serbia, the NBJ and then the finance minister and then the governor of the National Bank, Mladjan Dinkic, by paying off old foreign savings and securities on behalf of the collection of old foreign currency savings through the National Savings Bank. Wasn't that when there was a disturbance in healthy competition? Wasn't there a violation of healthy competition by the National Savings Bank and the Commercial Bank largely taking over the business space of closed banks, which Mladjan Dinkic shut down under the directive when replacing Western European currencies in the euro. What's the point here now? Thus, to show that the Government, or the Proposer, is looking after the financial market. It is further said: "The opinion of the competition organisation responsible for the protection of competition may be requested when determining the injury to competition under Article 1 of this member of the NBS. "This -- it can, it's very disputable, because it's being left, so it's only discretionary right for the governor of the National Bank to assess whether there's been a breach of the competition provisions or not. So he should write, Mr. Minister - he must request the opinion of the organisation responsible for protecting competition. Then: "NBS agrees on the concentration the bank is conducting on the financial market. "This means that it determines how many exposures it will have and where it will have exposures, so that certain banks will have the exclusive right to perform their work in several places in one centre, while some others, who are not close to the finance minister and governor, will have to do so in some less attractive locations and in some regions and municipalities that are less developed. "The NBS prescribes closer conditions and how to determine the infringements of the competition referred to in Article 1. "Didn't we, Mr. Minister, now here perhaps a month ago the Law on the Protection of Competition? As the NBS now prescribes something that is already prescribed or may be contrary to that law, and in order to do something else, it is most often done here for the purpose of abuse. "The procedure to determine the infringement of competition under Article 1 shall be subject to the provisions of the law governing the protection of competition. "That last attitude is contrary to the previous one, so you should keep an eye on when writing and proposing the law. Mr. Minister, because of your behavior in the O.R. yesterday, the SRS MPs left the session, and you owe us one answer. When you talked about money from Cyprus, you mentioned that there was some money worth 350 million marks or 360 million marks, I don't remember exactly, so you wrote to The Hague tribunal that those funds were blocked. They responded that they had information about, that they would block it, that they would eventually send you an explanation that it was not Milosevic's money but someone else's face. Given that 350 or 360 million marks is quite a large sum, which is impossible to earn in a fair way, why didn't you tell this speaker who owned the money. Who owns 360 million marks? Is that money from here? We want to know the name and name of that gentleman. You don't have to be afraid of being sued because you have immunity from this pay phone that the Constitution guarantees you. There's no way that immunity can be removed. I am interested that it is not Vuk Hamovic, that it is not Vojin Lazarevic, that it is not Philip Cepter Alias Milan Jankovic, that it is not Stanko Subotic called Cane Zhabac. We're very interested in whether it's their money or someone in their environment. We're interested, especially in whether that money came from here. If it comes from here, it's acquired in an illegal manner. So much money no one can make fair, no matter how smart he is. So that money should go back to the state and through the budget to return to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22627	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22628	Just a quick answer to this question. It is not about money from the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and the UN tribunal did not want to give us the name of the owner. So the answer can only be sought in The Hague.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22629	Thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The government has not accepted this amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milan Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22630	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a wonder the government didn't accept this amendment, because then the whole law would be wiped out. In fact, it was our goal to completely reject this law, not to accept it, and, if it had been reasonable, this law would have been withdrawn from the procedure. In fact, Mr. Minister is now transferring to The Hague tribunal his research into money from Cyprus. So from now on, for all the dissatisfaction, all the machinations that anyone has done in our country, including DOS, G17 plus and all of them, it is necessary to address The Hague tribunal. As far as the banking system itself is concerned, by the very appearance of Dosmanlia in power on October 5, 2000, you were the first to get hold of these financial assets and banks. That's why, like the communists in 1945, you immediately rushed to the banks, with phantoms on your head and hackers, automatics. There is also an example of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, when Mr. Dinkic forced former Governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia Vlatkovic to resign without any handover of all that was there, without talking about taking over customs duties and any other institutions in which the money was located, i.e. those financial transactions. Since then, you have immediately begun destroying our domestic banking system, translating both business spaces and money by pointing towards the Commercial Bank, according to the National Savings Bank, with the aim of controlling the money and keeping it under your control. Even then, you had a fight with Karic about Astra Banka, and to this day it seems to me that you didn't settle. But given all these transactions and money laundering, it's not excluded to be reconciled or to be in a coalition with him tomorrow. By destroying our domestic banking system, you have sickened the citizens of Serbia, and you have left thousands and thousands of workers out of work. In your private banks, you employed mostly your sympathisers, you joined the resistance, and that was your shock fist on October 5th, so today you can see some kind of job security, regardless of their professional qualifications and knowledge, while the rest of the domestic banks were out of work, left out on the street, with some sort of a small apparition, so today we have thousands of complaints from workers who are dissatisfied with Mr Dinkic's behaviour and at the time Djelic, today's financial exminist. We also remember Mr Dinkic and Mr Djelic's account, where the same goal was in play, only anyone will get their hands on and reach the National Bank of Yugoslavia, who will get hold of all these financial transactions. Today, all financial flows in the country are controlled by this G17 Plus interest group, headed by Minister Dinkic. It is known to the public and to all citizens of Serbia, and I trust underage children. You had one previous law that you passed in 2002, and it bothered you, even though you brought it together in that so-called DOS. And he bothered you because you didn't have complete control over the financial flows. This law, the law on banks that you impose today on this assembly to adopt it, I'm not sure, but probably this assembly majority of yours will adopt it, is the goal of Mr. Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic and National Bank Governor Jelasic controlling everything that is done in Serbia on the money market, the opening of banks, the exposure, means all the flow of money you want to control. On the one hand, you swear to decentralisation, and on the other hand you centralize the monetary system and the banking system, but in this case, unfortunately, you want to leave our banking system and the capital market to foreign bosses, who will control everything in our country. Maybe it's an order from one of the clubs, whether the London Club, whether Paris Club, whether this team from Basel, mostly in the game is to go to the end, simply to leave our entire assets to another, and us to be in an important relationship with foreigners. You've done this business, you're working in banking now, you've sold everything that's sold can be sold, olives, sugars, cements, now you're selling water, only there's still air left to sell. You're simply destroying our country's national interest. Wasn't there room for us to have one national bank, to have a savings bank that would have the reputation and trust of Serbian citizens, not to leave all of this to foreigners and be dependent on them? This Article 8 says what you want and what power you want to apply when working with banks, and in Article 8, you say, "The National Bank of Serbia is working with foreign and domestic regulatory bodies to perform and improve its control function and to carry out other tasks established by this law." In your explanation, you say literally: "The aim of the adoption of the law on banks is to bring the legislation in the area of banking with EU directives, the definition of the Basel Committee for Bank Control, the modern tendencies and the specificities of the economic environment in the Republic of Serbia." So, at no point do you potentiate domestic banking, do not potential what we are interested in in the country of Serbia, do not potentiate domestic investment that would probably speed up the development of our economy, but rather bind yourself to the EU, the Basel Committee and therefore want to control banking, to say afterwards: "Conceptual solutions consistent with EU directives, the Definitions of the Basel Committee on Bank Control, the OECD Principles, modern trends and the specificities of the economic environment in the Republic of Serbia. "You simply want to join the EU, the Basel Committee, the London Club, the Paris Club, in order to have complete control over the entire banking system. That's the ultimate goal. I would also like to say this opportunity that the MPs of this assembly have great responsibility to the citizens of Serbia for the decisions they make to harm both citizens and our entire state of Serbia. I therefore appeal to you not to be called by generations who are behind us, that we radicals, who will soon be in the position of government in the Republic of Serbia, have no problem with you, that we must file criminal charges, that we must call you to account for all this which you are doing to harm the citizens and the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22631	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22632	There are at least two reasons why we have submitted the amendment to Article 8. First reason, take the bill and read Article 8, so state the consequences of the banking system and the concept of this law if you throw out Article 8. Nothing. The second, even bigger reason, he's not in the "Politicals" list, but what you wrote in article 8, Mr. Dinkic, this should be in the NBS Act. He doesn't belong here. This is a member who regulates NBS co-operation with regulatory bodies. You don't even have a word of the bank in the text of points 1 and 2. It means: "NBS is working with foreign and domestic regulatory bodies to perform and improve its control function and perform other tasks set out in this law. "The NBS control function according to banks is regulated by this law, but also by the NBS Act, in that organisational part, etc. Item 2: "The NBS may, with the bodies referred to in Article 1, exchange data obtained in the performance of its control function and the performance of other tasks set out in this law. "It's all in the NBS Act. There's no bank obligation here. Something is prescribed here that is the authority of the NBS in communication, co-operation, as you say, with regulatory bodies. The only buckle is "cause of control." You transfer this to the NBS Act and there won't be any mistakes. When it stands in the law of banks, this unnecessarily burdens this text. If the NBS is to cooperate with someone and needs to find a legal basis for this cooperation, then the legal basis should be found in the NBS Act, not in the law on banks. Very simple and simple. So, the complete text of article 8. move to the NBS Act. You can freely accept this amendment, not change your concept of law, as you can see, but we are trying to unburden this text of unnecessary things.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22633	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Živan Vladimirovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The word has a National MP, Zivan Vladimirovic. Lively Vladimirovich. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am so surprised that this amendment of mine has not been accepted. I have submitted an amendment to Article 9 of the Bank Act, which reads "Article 9 is deleted". You know our general views on banks and the banking system. The minister laughs, but he abolished the former Institute of Accounting and Payments in Prokuplje, in the district headquarters, and has great grudges from the Toplice people. As far as domestic banks are concerned, you know that they are completely destroyed, that the banks themselves are not the culprits. You know that many banks have placed money in our economy, failed to collect their claims from failed businesses, and as non-equivocally closed. The market is left to foreign banks that place their funds here, destroy this little poverty that remains in Serbia on enormous interest. People are forced to take short-term loans at large interest rates, and they don't know what's waiting for them at the end. This commercial on TV, where one scam is offered, when they see how many people need to pay interest, they see that they're completely ruined. I would like to ask a parliamentary question about privatisation, and it concerns a company that, in my opinion, is unwarrantedly privatized and destroyed. Namely, it's a ŠIK "Bopalnik" from Kursumlia, where when privatization was placed under the same hat, and a company called "Kopalnik-Protect". So, completely unwarrantedly, this company was put under its paws and destroyed, so I would ask the Minister for Economy and Privatisation, because people received such contradictory answers to the question whether they were privatized or not, quite diametrically opposite answers -- that they were not privatized and privatized. Since these companies receive a certain amount from the Republika Srpska budget, this also applies to the finance ministry, that the company is destroyed, that workers are angry. However, they are getting their powers from the Republic of Serbia's budget, so this should be seen, to be examined and to clarify the true state of affairs. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22635	For the sake of these MPs who want to comment on the site of a provision and our amendment, I remind you that this is still the matter of Chapter I, the basic provisions. It's about article 9 that has the title - Administrative procedure. You have here laid down the principle in a way that corresponds to the consolidation of the screw-ups from the previous period since 2001. You did it by wanting to cement your own, probably more political than legal, decision to shut down some banks and want to make sure, because of the fact that you're constantly losing in administrative disputes. I can't remember exactly whether 11, 12 times, how many times it comes back. The way you did it is illegal. It is contrary to the basic principles of the administrative procedure and the principles applicable to administrative disputes. Let's get in line. In paragraph 1, you wrote: "The National Bank of Serbia, in the procedure laid down in this law, is controlling the credit and legality of banks and, on the basis of the competences established by this law (and now that you have said the credit and legality of the business, you have in some way determined the deliriousness, and thus the jurisdiction), solves the rights, obligations and legal interests of the person. "What faces? Everything related to the administrative process and the administrative dispute in this matter is on the link between the National Bank of Serbia and the Bank. Then it's not supposed to stand - faces, it's a bank. The question of bonity you raise to the level of legal norm. The issue of credit, like the quality of a bank's business, which allows it to be market-verified, you raise to the level of legal norm. So the legality of business and that control is done in the administrative process, but I'm not quite sure about this, because it needs to define what the state of competition is on the banking market, and it needs to be leveled towards the credit, more like a message to the savings and the committees, but as a legal norm. As a legal norm, there's only one thing that's minimal. When you've already used the word bonity, it's not just a minimum, it's all the criteria and all the criteria that maintain the state of a bank. Further: "The procedure referred to in Article 1 shall be subject to the provisions of the law governing the general administrative procedure, if this law is not otherwise specified. "With this law you make something different. And that's the opposite of the principles that apply, and that's the problem. Then you say, "In the process set out in Article 1 of this article, the National Bank of Serbia decides by a solution. "Acceptible. The following point is: "The solution of Article 3 is final. "It is an acceptable position, however, can in practice create a proper confusion, because you are likely obliged to ensure two-stageness in the decision-making process. If you're not providing two-degree security, then the administrative dispute is guaranteed. You're going to that variant. The following point: "The solution of Article 3 can be governed by an administrative dispute (this is the second, in accordance with the Constitution, which you prescribe), but the action against this solution cannot prevent or delay its execution. "It's a supplement that's not allowed. In the Law on Administrative Disputes, actions brought to the Supreme Court, he is still in charge, until the administrative court is made, do not delay the execution of the solution, but there is a possibility of a temporary measure being sought. What you've inserted after the comma is unacceptable. Further: "In the administrative dispute against the resolutions set out in Article 3, the court cannot resolve a administrative matter for which the resolution of this law determines the jurisdiction of the National Bank of Serbia. "It is contrary to both the Constitution and the Law on Administrative Disputes. Mr. Minister, it can't stand as a last resort to this. Why? Because the Supreme Court or tomorrow the administrative court, which is in charge of administrative disputes, will have to settle things in a measure, because the Law on Administrative Disputes is prescribed, and a special provision, seems to me to be a 62nd member of the Law on Administrative Disputes, when the administrative authority does not wish to implement and to remove the shortcomings that the administrative court has raised. We have a problem like you. We have a problem with that legendary jeep. Three times the Supreme Court annuls the M.O.P.'s solution and they won't return. They prefer William Walker, who gave the jeep to terrorists, rather than the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. We have reopened the lawsuit and now we expect the Supreme Court to finally decide on its own measure and to prescribe what is the obligation of both the first-degree and second-degree authorities to return. The Supreme Court in these disputes where you have extinguished these banks, initiated proceedings, etc., if it warns you ten times after, I cannot say specifically for you, since now the other man is governor of the National Bank, because he is in charge of it and he does not want to remove the shortcomings, but insists on insisting, so once bankruptcy, second time liquidation, so on and so forth, the authority of the court must be respected. If the court's authority is not respected, then you have no legal order and no end of the story. You now impose as a legal norm, the court may appreciate the legality, but it cannot metrically resolve. You're not allowed to do that. It can't stand in this member of this law. If this is in this article of this law, then you don't need the Law of Administrative Disputes at all. So, what represents your request, your interest, your view of how this situation should be resolved is contrary to the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. I have to tell you, even when something changes in our legal order, this view of administrative disputes is invariable, because it's standard. You can't possibly change some of your standards for hundreds of years. You can't change. You have to say somewhere - this is sacred, it's not going there. Private property is sacred, we can't push it. The administrative court with its decisions that have its weight is also sacred, and decisions must be respected. So I'm going back to heading 1 - the legality of business, and it's okay, and I need control in the administrative procedure, but the bonus is at the border. The bond control in that part where you turn minimum standards for credit rating into a law of prescribed mandatory conditions that the bank has to meet, you can control it. Then it's a legal condition, not a bonity. The value is quality, quality demarcation, security, capital, risk-free placements, security of claims. The bonus that is determined is very important for the National Bank of Serbia, for other banks, for legal persons, for citizens. You can't put a bonus as a dry legal standard. Is this class, second class, third class, you can't. Why? Because that bonity is not a minimum legal condition for business. In this regard, we are looking at these two basic interventions for this member. Of course, we have suggested erasing and I draw your attention to the credit rating and the ability to conduct a administrative dispute, i.e. restricting the court to resolve in the administrative dispute. In this law, in this Article, the restriction is given contrary to the basic principles applicable to the administrative procedure and to the administrative dispute. The Legislative Committee on this matter had to intervene if it determined the overall legal order and the compliance of the proposed laws with the legal order. He had to intervene because in this way they were violated primarily by the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia concerning constitutionality and legality, where it is prescribed that the appeal is guaranteed and, unless the appeal is allowed by law, it can be prescribed that an administrative dispute is being conducted against the final administrative acts, but you cannot prescribe by this law what the court's decision will be. If the Supreme Court of Serbia today, and tomorrow that administrative court has the authority to resolve a certain matter, you cannot deny it, because we have precisely these abnormal situations, where the state authority does not want to implement the court's decision and does everything to defuse the court's decision. As you've seen, I'm not going into whether the court's decision is correct, whether the National Bank Governor's decision is correct. I'm just talking about what is in our regulations, and what must be binding on both the governor and the Supreme Court and obliging us all in the extreme sense that we must respect the court's decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22636	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milomir Minić and Jovan Todorovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22637	My colleague Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted the amendment. She is not here today, celebrating with her family her cross glory of Martijndan, so I congratulate her on this occasion, her family, and everyone who celebrates this glory from the heart. To Article 9. The bill, which speaks of administrative procedure, we have proposed an amendment to delete Article 6 with one single and very simple explanation, which is that this proposal for a law is in paragraph 6 contrary to the principles and provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act and the Law on Administrative Disputes. The General Administrative Procedure Act stipulates that a first-degree solution can be excluded and that the solution becomes final, provided that another type of protection is provided. In this regard, the draft law properly referred the previous members to the management of the administrative dispute against the final decision of the NBS, but limited the jurisdiction of the court in the last 6th position of that member. Let's see what the government, or resolution minister, says in an explanation when he refuses this amendment of ours. "The amendment is not accepted for reasons that the provisions of Article 9(6) are not contrary to the Constitution, nor to the General Administrative Procedure Act and the Law on Administrative Disputes." This is incorrect for a simple reason because limiting the jurisdiction of the court is contrary to the law and to the Constitution. "This means (if the amendment were accepted) that the court would be obliged to apply all the material provisions of the Bank Act, which are specific, narrowly professional and combine economic, accounting and legal skills." So, Minister Dinkic argues that the court is not expert in applying material law covering the provisions of the Bank Act and other sublaws that are strictly professional and specific. If such a criterion were applied to another area, let's say intellectual property, gynecology, telecommunications, then the courts, in the opinion of Mr Dinkic, would have nothing to do. Now we come to another problem, three pillars of power, legislative, executive and judicial. We have so far had the opportunity and practice of Mr Dinkic that even this highest legislative body, which is called the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is demeaning us by threatening to introduce temporary measures as in JAT, and that was his behaviour, his manner of treating lawmakers. But now probably without the knowledge of Mr. Kostunica, because I doubt the Prime Minister, who is a famous legalist, would accept that such a relationship is applied to a third branch of a system called the judiciary. It simply takes away the judicial authority's right to do its job. I think I've been clear enough to explain why this amendment should be accepted. Otherwise, we don't need an independent judiciary, otherwise we'll only have a minister of finance, or representatives of the government, which will be the last instance in everything that has to do with the NBS and financial organisations.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22638	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22639	If our amendment cannot be adopted because it is comprehensive, then this amendment, I think, is identical with the SPS amendment, these are the same solutions, it would have to be adopted. If the government will not adopt, and probably not, then I call on the MPs and say that you are obliged to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and in order to convince you what it means to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I must tell you that the first definition, the first sentence to be applied when it comes to administrative dispute, is that the court is assessing the legality of the final administrative acts. If the NBS governor's solution to some issue, aspect, the legality of work and business, the establishment of work and business of a bank, is a final administrative act, then the legality values Serbia's Supreme Court. This is how you forbade the Supreme Court of Serbia to appreciate the legality of the final administrative act. To be more specific, you have only given one aspect of the assessment that the court is eventually pleading in its verdict: the suit is passed, the suit is dismissed. The Law on Administrative Disputes provides for a different choice. If we exclude the possibility of a solution to a decision, and as far as the matter of proceedings is concerned, if the court adopts an appeal in the administrative dispute, under the conditions prescribed by the Law on Administrative Disputes, it is authorised to resolve the relevant administrative matter. What in the area of banking business can be a administrative matter? That's the central question. The administrative matter may be whether the conditions for establishment are met, whether the working conditions are met, whether the conditions regarding the bank's business are met, but the administrative matter can't be the bank's bonity. The bank's credit is one valuable criterion that cannot be a legal norm. That's what this is about. The NBS is authorised to take measures towards a particular bank, so there are preventive and there are those repressive measures that end up with a solution that requires something, withdraws a license, shuts down a bank, etc. These are final administrative acts, but you cannot by this law forbid the court to exercise control of the legality of the final administrative act. You're doing it here to show that no one knows anything, all about the legality of the bank's work is in the power of the governor, in the power of the finance minister, there's no place for judicial authority. The judicial authority is authorized to control the legality. It's her right that no one can deny. You can't do this with this law. I'll tell you right away, and if this member goes as you imagine, everyone who works in the council for the Supreme Court's administrative disputes will apply the Law of Administrative Dispute and resolve these matters. All judges, all bigger, because they are bound by the Law on Administrative Disputes, and this law on banks binds them only in the part where they value the legality of the governor's solution. Whether the governor was authorized, whether he determined whether the conditions for application were met, whether he had fulfilled control under the law on banks. And they won't accept and apply Article 9 in this section that you've described. Why? He has a lot of rights to establish, apply, when decision is taken by the Supreme Court in the Administrative Dispute Council, the provision of Article 9. The Act on Banks is item 6. I think that's the last attitude you're trying to ban the court from deciding. They'll dissuade you themselves. Then again, someone smart will be found at the National Bank, and they'll say, the court has made a mistake, has not been authorized and has had no position of six, and you are again hiding behind the National Assembly and behind your majority here who has voted something that cannot stand in the law. Well, it can't, as the National Assembly can't make a decision that the globe is square, so neither can this be inserted, which is written in paragraph 6. Now, whether you are legalists or not, are you patriots, whether you are traitors, whether you are such, whether you are, think about it, adopt this amendment, to make what is proposed as a law today, even if it is something that is in line with the legal order. Once in your head, the solutions contained in the Law on Administrative Disputes are at the level of principle, generalized principles applicable to administrative disputes. Change the constitution, do whatever you want, probably 99% of the settlement from the Law on Administrative Disputes will not be allowed to change. It can't change. You're now trying to change the second law on a small door, disabling the Law on Administrative Disputes. You've got yourself a dead end. It's impossible to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22640	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Constitution changes this congregation, please, not you and we. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Boban Vojnovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Here you go, Mr. Vojnovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22641	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on Articles 145 and 163 of Section 2. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on the proposal for a bill on banks and on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 10, where it is said that a member of the 10th draft law is deleted. The SRS parliamentary group has shown its relationship with this law, and also with Article 10 of this bill, in the way we normally do when the government tries to plant something like this law on us. The bill is very bad, so you delivered this proposal to us at the last minute, to make it impossible for us to prepare to conduct a quality debate on the law, so we submitted amendments to each member and suggested that each member should be deleted individually, so that we could explain what we actually think about this bill. In his presentation, the minister told a very nice story about banks. The truth is, the real situation is completely different. We heard from the minister that under the favourable conditions of Serbian citizens, by passing this law, they will be stimulated to save, I don't really know who has the chance in Serbia today to save in banks, when from where I come from, from Pirot, 95% of the population barely makes ends up. People barely survive from month to month, and far from being able to save. All banks in Serbia that co-operated in any way with the Serbian economy helped the Serbian economy, the minister closed down and left thousands of people in those banks without a job in 2002, thus closing down all factories and businesses that co-operated with these banks. Banks for which you have decided to go to rehab no longer exist, and the business premises of these former banks are either sold out without any market value or moved there by people who are close to the authorities. There are many things why this bill on banks and article 10 is unacceptable for us from the SRS parliamentary group. We won't vote for the law on banks, because we don't want to give legitimacy to anyone's will.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22642	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Stefan Zankov, according to the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22643	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are here one, let me say, a corrupt way by the government to get a bill on banks, which is a system law, practically in a minute to 12. What else could we have done as the only saving parliamentary group, who is doing our job responsibly, rather than putting in a large number of amendments that we ask for members of this bill to be deleted. It was the only move we could take at that moment, because another way was not to fight against such an irresponsible government. We are essentially having more problems with the government's representative over this bill, Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic. The SRS has said a lot backwards about Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, and I want to highlight some of his, I would say, affairs and moves that have remained remembered in the past five years. I believe that Minister of Finance Mladjan Dinkic – and I sincerely hope that he wrote this bill, although from some previous experience I know that these are about translations of Slovenian and similar laws – has no right to write and defend this bill, because it is responsible for destroying the banking system in Serbia, for destroying the four largest domestic banks and introducing foreign banks, which, without restrictions, practically, amount to huge amounts of money from Serbia and which earn the difference in savings and loans given to Serbian citizens. The Cyprus affair and what Mladjan Dinkic was saying in a pre-election campaign ahead of the 2000 elections, when DOS with G17 plus came to power, is also something that is extremely burdensome and is talking about billions of people. When they won the election, they all sought these billions, allegedly no one could find them, and there are also testimony from some of his fellow workers in the business today when they are no longer in power and that certain money has been found, but that then they magically disappeared on some islands. Does this money participate today in privatising the best Serbian companies? That, in our opinion, is more than certain. An affair over the National Savings Bank, where the National Bank deposited companies in Serbia, and the National Savings Bank has been extended by Governor Mladjan Dinkic, has been falsely presented as state-owned. The PDO's business space has gone bankrupt, practically to some privileged banks. And the link to the energy mafia is also something that burdens Mladjan Dinkic, as the legislator of this law on behalf of the Serbian government. The invasion of the National Bank with weapons, with a sock on its head, according to witnesses' statements, was confirmed by then by Police Minister Dusan Mihajlovic, who said it was his only regret and only mistake in the period during which he was also working as a police minister, why he did not take certain measures. Then Mladjan Dinkic declared himself governor of the National Bank in one period, until the elections in the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly, i.e. the SRJ. Mladjan Dinkic is responsible for the repayment of the non-existent debt, with billions of them at stake. We believe that he had to consider, as one of the most responsible negotiators in the process, the great war damage suffered by Yugoslavia during 1999 and that is why I consider this debt to be largely non-existent. After five years of rule of Mladjan Dinkic as governor of the National Bank, as finance minister, he proposes a law on banks and proposes a law on money laundering. Of course, it took five years to do all the dirty business of banks, to wash all the money, to go through the Serbian economy in one legal way, and now we're going with these banks as if nothing had happened. In the end, I would like to ask Mr. Minister: where are the billions waiting at the border after 2000 and on which you have founded a campaign for these elections you have won. You've criticised a number of taxes that you've only increased since then, as well as a subscription to RTS. We have witnessed these days that this subscription is being reintroduced, all of this is new today, all of it was a simple lie and deception of the citizens of Serbia. You boast about the huge foreign exchange reserves that the NBS has, but you don't talk or say at the end that it's really just what was bought out of the citizens of Serbia, so, in some of the previous times, difficult periods, they've saved something for the black days, and these days they have to sell, and that's enough talking about the state in which Serbian citizens are. In the end, I'd like to make a joke to mention your famous commercial on those days of 2000. After a year, you promised a car, after two years, the children would allegedly be able to school abroad, and after three years of housing. It's been five years. Except for you and your party councilmen, no one has that. Five years have passed, citizens are living harder and harder.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22644	Any other members of the group? No, I don't. ) The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22645	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to say with pride that everything that was in that ad in 2001 was fulfilled until the last one. The last thing that's been filled out are housing loans. As you know, there was no travel, foreign education, but first there were loans for cars, then loans for travel abroad for vacations, and then housing loans. As you know, at a time when some of these speakers were in power, you were in the banks that allegedly helped our economy you could only come to the counter and tell you that you couldn't raise the salary you earned, you were brought back by the counter officials and they were still laughing at your face, because you came and asked to raise your salary, and the bank clerk, the malts, not to tell you a swear or any other hurtful words, they just said there's no money, let alone any credit. So, unlike that period when there was no credit activity in banks, I am proud that after ten years of serious credit activity in banks, all credits, both businesses and citizens, have been widely increased. The housing loans, which we forgot, were granted back in 1990 or 1991, are finally approved this year at an interest rate of 4.5% a year, thanks to the establishment of the National Corporate for the Insurance of Residential Loans, which this assembly established by law and which allowed a good share of the risk of housing loans to be reduced. Also, thanks to the new government programme and the budget surplus, we have managed to place loans to those up to 45 years of age under subsidized conditions, and we will have three times as much money for those purposes in the following year, precisely thanks to the reduction of public spending we have achieved this year. I've heard that some say the population ends up making ends meet. I'm not going to enter that observation, I'm only asking myself who are those people who put 60m euros on average in our banks on average, because this year's savings increased by only the first ten months by 650m euros and are constantly growing. So, 200 times larger than in 2000, so not twice, but 200 times larger than in 2001 and currently stands at 2,100,000 euros, and as the end of the year is getting closer, the record will be reached in November, as 65m euros were invested in savings in our banks for the first 20 days of November. It is the money of Serbian citizens, so the citizens of Serbia are opening savings books, savings, which is good, because our goal has been since the beginning, when I took over the leadership of the National Bank of Yugoslavia of the former, and now the NBS, to restore trust in the dinar, which we have succeeded in restoring confidence in the banking sector. Of course, earlier, unfortunately, the banks, I'm talking about the period we found in 2000, was just the place where you were nervous. You come to the counter and you can't raise your pension or your salary. Today we still have a far stronger banking system, although we have twice as many banks in our country. Because some banks that worked against the law were radically deprived of work permits without any thought. Over 40 banks lost their work permits or had to connect with other banks, but now we've created a healthy banking system. I am proud to say that today in Serbia's banking system there are far more people working than it was in 2000, when we started reforming the banking system. I wish that in the economy was a similar situation, that the situation developed at a similar pace, because employment in all segments of our economy would be as successful as in banking. In banking, I repeat again, for more people than it did in 2000, despite the fact that at one point in early 2002, 8,500 people were out of work in four major state banks. But then we didn't want to, it was already extorted by the fact that the loss in these former giants in Serbia's banking amounted to about 30% of the then gross domestic product or eight billion marks of that time. It was a turning point, whether to inject fresh capital with these banks, and that would mean that we have to take four billion euros from the citizens to get these banks in order to keep them working or simply to put them into bankruptcy and to enable the banks, I mean the others who worked healthy, as well as new banks that come into the market so that they can start developing zero malts. Also, we decided to return the old foreign exchange savings, which hasn't been returned in years. Of course, it was a move that made it possible to grow confidence in our banking sector. From 2000 to today, we have returned about a billion euros of old foreign currency savings to the citizens. That's what I'm proud of, and some say we shouldn't have paid back the savings, because that's the right of those people who think, and if we hadn't paid back a billion euros of old foreign savings, I'm sure they wouldn't have two billion euros now, and just thanks to the return of a billion euros of old savings, we now have two billion and 100 million. Also, if we hadn't created conditions for the budget surplus by economic policy measures, we would never have knocked down the interest rate on housing loans at 4.5% a year. We have also effectively transferred payment traffic from the PDO at the time into our banking system. I'm aware that many of them were scaring citizens back then, if there's no PDO radio payment traffic the bank will make a real collapse. However, none of this happened. However, it is in Slovenia, Bosnia and Croatia, and we have avoided all their traps and mistakes and have introduced very effective payment traffic into our banking system. Now the banks are doing it very effectively. It also enabled the expansion of payment cards. Several years ago, Serbia unfortunately did not use payment cards. People only believed in cash. Today, we have over three million payment cards issued, so indeed according to all parameters and indicators, not only those shown by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but which they establish in their reports by an international relevant financial institution, such as the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the fastest and most efficient reform, with the greatest positive effects, just in banking. We have now come to something that has been the ideal of many generations, which is that banks from Serbia can spread beyond Serbia's borders. It will certainly make some of the MPs more or less happy, and I am sure they will make you more happy, but the fact is that now some Serbian banks will be able to open their activities outside Serbia's current borders. So in the first quarter of next year, the Commercial Bank, which is mostly owned by the Republic of Serbia, will apply for a license in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I am sure that Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizens, above all, will be welcomed with approval, since the idea that the bank is financing investments by Serbian companies in the territory of the republic. But until a year or two ago, it wasn't possible, it wasn't the conditions that our banks could go beyond Serbia's borders, so I can finally say that we have reached that level of development of the banking sector, that we don't just have to take care of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but that some domestic banks that are able to go beyond Serbia's borders, as we say the Italians are coming to us, as the Germans, the French, and now the Serbs can go beyond Serbia with their bank. I think it's a joint success of both the National Bank of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, the total savings in the Commercial Bank currently amount to 400m euros. It's bank number one for the citizens of Serbia's trust. No matter what foreign banks exist, Serbia's citizens entrusted most of their savings deposits to the Commercial Bank. It has independent management, people who are not members of any political party, and indeed in the past year they have managed to raise the institution's significant performance and that will allow them to move beyond Serbia's borders. We also plan similarly on some other financial area institutions where Serbia is the majority owner. I want to say, since this is mentioned here, that this government of the Republic of Serbia has succeeded in restoring the right of blocking minorities, a control package of actions in the National Savings Bank, after the previous government lost it. After the formation of the new government, we found 10% ownership in the National Savings Bank, 10% ownership of the state of the Republic of Serbia, and now we have 37%, thanks to the decisions we have made and implemented in the last year. That's how we gained the right of blocking minorities. The Greek partner, who took over from minority action shareholders, cannot make any strategic decision without the consent of the government of the Republic of Serbia, because whoever has more than 25% of the shares in banks has the right to block a decision unless it is in the state interest, so we are now continuing talks with the Greek co-owner, but we will use the right of blocking minorities in all cases where the national interest of Serbia would potentially be compromised. We didn't have that a year ago. We only had 10% a year ago, thanks to the indolence of the previous government. We've recovered that participation now to 37%. We've got more national banks, post office savings. You remember how a year ago it was about paying off pensions. People were coming, waiting for days to pay off their pensions. The post office, which served that payment, did not effectively organise it. Until the government of the Republic of Serbia got involved, the public company Post Office of Serbia did so, and now they are effectively organised and pensioners can get their money immediately when it comes to payments. Of course, I'd like the pensioners to use their payment cards more and raise that money through the ATMs, not wait in lines. Unfortunately, there are those pensioners who are comfortable hanging out twice a month and instead of coming across the line, over the ATM, where there's no traffic, raise money, they prefer to talk to the neighbor about current events and thus exercise their right. But the Post Office will also remain in national ownership. So, at this point, Serbia has several national banks, which are small by number, but in strength they are very strong. I repeat again because I think it is very important for all of you who are making decisions about this current law on banks, some of our Serbian banks can finally go beyond Serbia's borders. Bosnia won't be the only country that gets out. They will go to Macedonia and some other countries around them. I know it's small steps, but until a year ago, we couldn't, barely some of our banks competed with foreign banks here. Now that they're stronger than some foreign banks, conditions have come out of Serbia's territory. This law therefore has to and wants to bring more order into the control of the banks themselves, so that what happened in the previous period never happens when you give money to the bank in savings, the bank spends it. Whether it was under government duress, whether it was in Tito's time or someone else's, it doesn't matter, but it was a system that you gave money to banks on savings, 20 billion marks in the former Yugoslavia or 8.7 billion marks in Serbia were given to banks in the 60s, 70s and 80s. The banks placed that money somewhere where they could never charge that money and there was a problem with the old foreign savings. Some of them built the Horses and the Dafins in the '90s. I paid that money back, as well as money in the name of old savings. When I say I don't mean myself personally, I mean the National Bank of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So the state has succeeded, and I'm really proud of it, to consolidate the banking system. Currently, Serbia's banking system is among the strongest banking systems in Southeast and Central Europe, and this law will make it even stronger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22646	Thank you. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Milivova Vukovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Verica Radeta, came forward, so Mr. Vukovic will have the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22647	Mr. Vukovic, I won't be too long and I won't talk about your amendment, you'll talk about it, but I can't really talk to the minister like this after such a fine exposure. Minister, the other day I asked you to speak in the National Assembly not to talk about the country of dembelia, but to talk about the country of Serbia. It's all very nice of you to tell. It's just that it's not and it's not there. For four years, we've been trying to find out why you've abolished the big, biggest Serbian banks, and you've finally said today that you did it because of the scrawny officials who didn't give citizens salaries on counters, so you just started your presentation. What you've been talking about about about loans and that you're proud of everything you've done for all these years, of how, you say radically, you've closed banks, I'm telling you that banks don't shut down radically but expertly. You're the one who expertly shut them down. I'll tell you all about this one Serbian folk proverb, and that's just her first part: "What is she ashamed of... "Mr. Minister, follow a little of what good economists in Serbia warn Serbian citizens not to, and you like to compare yourself with Croatia, what happened to Croatian citizens, that they have extended, and this is clearly happening to Serbian citizens now. The fact is, there is a possibility that loans can be raised, but it is also a fact that loans are too expensive. Admit it, you know how to calculate it, you say it's allowed to take credit and go on vacations. It's true, but if someone took a loan to go on vacation this year, calculate with interest they have to pay, there's no way they'll pay that loan by next year's vacation. So how's next year going on vacation? Anything you offer can be fired now in this period and the end. Who will repay these loans, of which money will the citizens repay these loans and the possibility of using payment cards? As for housing loans, Mr. Dinkich, don't say anything here that isn't true, which is not true. And you know yourself that you have problems, both you and the banks, who are willing to give these housing loans, that citizens can't take home loans, that's what I was telling you the other day, because they don't have the property on which they can write the mortgage, that what's foreseen by the mortgage law, which was delivered to the MPs, is also not a good solution. That's what I've been talking to your colleague Parivodic about. Of course, that's what we'll talk about when that law's on the agenda. You have no right to deceive the citizens of Serbia, to tell them: Here, you can take the housing loans, it's never been so far. First, it's not true. It used to be much more favourable and much easier than it is now, so then it really wasn't in one period. Now you can take home loans again, but now, in fact, a housing loan can only be taken by someone who has an apartment, so they can increase the square or whoever has a house, so they can buy an apartment, etc. Citizens who have not solved the housing issue have no ability to solve it with these loans that you are offering. I don't want to talk about how favourable they are, how unfavourable these loans are. Simply, what you're saying is not applicable and all citizens in Serbia know it. It's not nice to stand here and tell citizens who can't deny it and can't answer you, to tell them: Dear citizens of Serbia, push in, take housing loans, when they know it's not possible. So, you said a lot of nice things here, but I just came out to say, in fact, everyone who listened to you really well knows that none of what you said is true. What you said was a list of good wishes, perhaps your good intentions to do so one day, but unfortunately, Minister, Serbia is far from the ideal you were talking about here.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22648	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta, for coming back on the subject. The word is Mr. Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22649	That's exactly what you said and we noticed that it was a problem: that housing loans would be approved if you didn't have a mortgage. However, Minister Parivodic and I worked together on a new mortgage law, which I hope will be discussed very quickly in the Assembly. One member has been created where housing loans are made possible and for those buildings in the building. In other words, you can take a loan for the house, so you can start building it, so on what is built you put a mortgage. So you don't have to have a mortgage at first. That's one thing. The second thing, we noticed in practice the realisation of these housing loans that there are problems, that court fees for enrollment are very high. I've proposed to the Minister of Justice to amend the Law on Court Taxes in the section of accounting for housing loans and loans for houses, among those banks that have concluded a contract with the National Corporation for the Insurance of Residential Credits for Credit Insurance. The proposal is to lift the court registration fee completely, so that as many people as possible can get those loans and not pay the enrollment fee, and then we would directly transfer that lost income to the courts themselves. These are some of the proposals that should be found here and allow for further development of this market. Otherwise, until now, only in the last two months, we have about 400 housing loans paid to citizens, who have already raised them through this subsidisation program of ours. Of course, we've only just started with that now, and I expect that in the following year, when we have far more resources, it will be a larger amount. What we see in practice, we try to change. That's why we're making mortgage laws. Plus we've noticed that they're very high court fees. The proposal is to cancel them and then replace the court's revenue directly from the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22650	It is precisely Mrs Radeta and Mr Parivodić, as she has informed us, and a whole series of parliamentary groups have discussed improving the bill and I hope that we will all help in this. Mr. Vukovic has a word. It's his amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22651	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on Articles 145 and 163 of Section 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, have submitted an amendment to Article 11. The bill on banks, which reads: "Article 11 is deleted. "This is another law in a series of your failed laws, and that is why we from the Serbian Radical Party had to re-apply amendments to the law, which are identical, because we wanted the whole law deleted, i.e. to withdraw from the procedure, because it brings nothing good to the citizens of our country, but only new borrowings continue to be poor. This law legalises further robbery and destruction of domestic banking. There are more and more foreign banks in our country, who take our money and invest in their countries, not here. I don't think these foreign banks are going to bring their own capital to invest it here. They see that the more capital they take from our citizens, the more they invest in their countries. These foreign banks here don't buy property, i.e. The buildings and the exposures, but they just hire them, and one day they take the money and leave like they came. They have nothing to do with our country, except to take as much money as they can from our people and make us dependent on them. They're gonna be big bosses in our country, because they can't do it in their own, and we're gonna be their big debtors. All the big banks that mattered in this country have been liquidated. As for bank interest, increasing the rate of mandatory reserves and interest rates for citizens will be increased. The minister defends that interest rates for citizens will not be increased, but competition between banks will be created and they will have to lend loans with smaller interest, i.e. More favourable for citizens, which is not true. Mr. Minister said housing interest should not exceed 4.5% of the annual agreed rate. We have now had the situation that business banks approve loans to citizens on a variety of grounds, as a rule of consumer credit, but when the interest is collected, the fees and the costs of the credit processing, then there is frantic data - that the interest is at an annual level even about 20%, and that the citizens who used these funds didn't even know it at that time. From what I'm told, I think you should accept my amendment, as well as all amendments to the Serbian Radical Party, so you could withdraw the whole law from the procedure, and thus save yourself from further suffering and useless sitting in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22652	Because of the Rules of Procedure and the dignity of the Assembly, Mr. Minister, your assistant for the banking system must remain in the Assembly. Of course you have to go to the government because of the obligations the Assembly has imposed on the government. Mr. Markovic, please, there are seven more minutes for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22653	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I first called, but Mr. Vukovic came out to defend the amendment, for a replica of the minister's presentation. Another exposure and another lie when he said a mortgage could be placed on what was being built. Absolutely incorrect. I have two lawyers here who wrote a mortgage contract to my friend, who wanted to put a house he's been living in for ten years, and it's almost over. He was told he needed permission to get it. Until the building gets a valid permit, it can't be mortgaged. As for the amendments of MP Dr Vukovic, the amendment refers to Article 11 which says: "The bank can be founded by domestic and foreign legal and natural persons. "Ladies and gentlemen, there is another paragraph missing here, another three or four words, which should be, which are at the will of Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic. How many banks formed by domestic faces, private banks so far have been suffocated? You don't know. How many state banks were strangled? You don't even know that. We know of the four largest, but a bunch of other small banks in Serbia have been strangled, so that it could work National Savings, because it was founded, with knowledge and approval, by white-world criminals Hamovic and Lazarevic with money that Mladjan Dinkic, when he was the bank's governor, took to the Euroaxis bank, which belongs to that Mirkovic, who is also a criminal, because he destroyed Yugoslavia in Moscow and joined the three Drakulić-Hamovic-Mirkovic. That's how banks form. What Mr. Vukovic said, to correct it, he said - I can't buy real estate. I can, Mr. Vukovic. They bought, now this Greek bought all those buildings, those business premises, the Department of Accounting and Payments, the former SDK, 7,200 squares were acquired by the National Savings Centre, with the knowledge and approval of Mr Dinkic, so now the National Savings Bank sold it, as if their grandfather had built it for them, Greece. That's how you rob the state and form the banks.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22654	Under the same amendment, MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22655	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Milivove Vukovic, who submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, requested in the amendment that this article be deleted clearly. In an explanation given to the National Assembly, we say: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should not be a voting machine in function of G17 plus and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The proposed law on banks should undermine all abuses of Mladjan Dinkic and his friends, so it was delivered to the MPs just before the start of the debate, so that they could not study the law through the debate in the Assembly to inform the public of the intentions of Mladjan Dinkic. "So, Mr Dinkic, who is now out of the O.R., spoke in superlatives about this bill on banks. Of course everything he said wasn't true. The SRS, as the strongest political party in the country and in this National Assembly, has a clear stance under the bill. If you do not accept the amendments to the SRS, we will vote against the Bill on Banks, taking into account all the facts that the colleagues of the SRS for a pay phone and in this National Assembly said, for the sake of the public in Serbia, that the public in Serbia should be informed of everything you do and what is devastating for the citizens of Serbia. So it is not true, as the minister said, that Slovenia has made mistakes, which has entered the EU. On that very case, Slovenia did not work in the interests of the IMF, as you do, and all to the harm of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The affairs that have been since you came to power, from 5 October to today, many of the affairs have been forgotten. But we are obliged to inform the citizens of Serbia and remind them of what you have done in the past few years. The fact is that the affair on the National Savings Bank and everything you've done, you've been working to harm the citizens of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia. The SRS will always, and that is what we are going to do in this assembly, inform the citizens of Serbia and the public about the execution of all those draft laws that you in this National Assembly are voting with the will of the majority at the expense of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and at the expense of the state of Serbia. So, the SRS will vote against the Bill of Banks, although an interested group called G17 plus here insists on adoption, so your ruling majority will probably, as so far, vote this bill, and for the sake of the public, citizens in Serbia should know that everything you do is at the expense of the citizens of Serbia and Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22656	National MP Goran Jaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22657	Dear President and fellow MPs, just now a colleague, the last speaker, said we should talk about the public, on behalf of the public and for the sake of the public. I couldn't agree more, just that, since the minister is important for business, which I think we all respect in the government and just before the president said, we're explaining one thing. The speaker said earlier that the minister did not bring out the data, not the last one, but before he did, that housing loans could be invested as collateral for a mortgage on a building for which a housing loan is being taken. Just so the public hears well. The minister didn't say that. The minister said he, as finance minister, along with Minister Parivodic, suggested that in the next law, which we will consider here for the benefit of Serbian citizens, he proposed that the mortgage law be arranged so that loans required for residential construction would enable citizens to be provided through the building facility. It does not exist at the moment, but the minister did not even say that it exists at the moment, but he said, for the sake of the public, that it would be in the draft mortgage law, which we will consider here and that in the coming period, by adopting this law, citizens will be able to, when they take up a housing loan, in the coming period to place a mortgage on an object that is under construction.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22658	We'll also be clear on the stenogram. Information was exchanged on the proposal and draft laws and what MPs advocated and what they discussed. So there's no big difference. Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Vukic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Here you go. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22659	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Angelic, you couldn't sit in the first bench at all, let alone the minister. You may be a minister in some of your thoughts, but you will not be able to do so in the next term, because the organisation, or party to which you belong, will not have the opportunity to think about parliamentary mandates, let alone the ministerial post. By being announced by the President of the Assembly as an expert in banking by the Ministry, it doesn't mean that you can sit there. I don't mind it, you just have to respect the order and I need the president of the assembly to draw your attention to it. It's never been for co-workers from the ministry to sit in the front row. It is known that these places are intended for the government. Explain to Kostunica tomorrow how you sat in his shoes. But how and what you do to him, and to that DSS, I'm not surprised to have him kicked out of his office, and that you assistants and associates do whatever you want. As for the founding capital of the bank and this law, it is indeed in this general situation for me in terms of domestic banks that are pointless, and for Serbian radicals, to discuss this with you. You have applied the Croatian model of privatization of banks in Serbia according to the kidnapping system, the entry of foreign banks that are supposed to be operating here as domestic and you have completely brought this few domestic banks left in one unexposed position, which they themselves know in terms of the capital and the capacity they have, and these are mostly these smaller banks. In addition to the Commercial Bank, as the quick-to-go minister replaced management and said it would survive and would spread to the Bosnia and Herzegovina market, of course everything under the direct management stick of him personally as finance minister and Radovan Jelasic. Such pressures on former management are being put on these other banks that exist and are working with the economy back 15-20 years. Here, in particular one bank, I will not mention her name, which is known for her first founding capital mainly working with the economy and helping the Serbian economy, in a full review and scale of its committees, although she has prominent and strong economic committees, those who remain and remain in business in these impossible conditions, she is completely demoted by the NBS, deliberately because she wants to further devalue herself in order to sell herself in a senseless manner. It's your model of privatisation, and it's the same with banks as I do in the Forest of Regional Character, it exists in Nisavska County, in Jablaničko and everywhere, and these banks will have to move quickly, no later than a year, to privatize. Because these banks that were introduced with the help of Jelasic and Dinkic, as these closed down, took over the full role of the population at very high interest rates, and they are not interested in the economy at all. You, Mr. Angelic, although you can't go out to speak on behalf of the Ministry, and the minister doesn't, think a little bit about what the game is and whether it's a sword with two blades, if you want to think about the well-being of the country and the economy, the gross social product and what it brings to you on one side is such an expansion of these loans, which are offered to the population by these banks with huge capital, that these domestic remains are not able to mate, but are cramped, they hardly survive and simply pray to God that they are privatizing as soon as possible when they already have such a situation. Is the reduction of the credit activity of these banks something that will improve our economic flows, or are you going to influence it, giving them the ability to behave like this to these foreign banks, and especially those who have fully taken over the monopoly role in our market, to operate exclusively 80, 90, or 99% with the population, with such credit lines and interest rates that are far greater than in the west for short-term loans, for these cash loans for which citizens have to apply every day, because it means 1000 or 2,000 euros to them, so take one such credit to a Serbian citizen for five years and for the next three years, only the bank pays an incredibly high interest of 24 or 25%. You're trying this law, which we say is terrible, to supposedly correct that injustice. What's it worth now that you've already left the entire market to these foreign banks and when these domestics have been brought to ruin. As far as money is concerned, I have received information that this mandatory deposit is 10m euros and that 18% is what is mandatory, and it is only now introduced since these foreign banks are operating on our market and this scale that pretends to go first and foremost in favour of them, and not our domestic banks, which have been unnamed throughout the century, but you certainly know which one I'm talking about, which was exclusively business with the Serbian economy. If someone can't, and it's obvious that not everyone can, but only anyone who is a favorite of parties in power or in direct contact with someone who has to do with you and your party, can compete with the Development Fund, which we talked about yesterday, about some credit for entrepreneurship, for small and medium-sized enterprises, of course he's going to go and ask himself for a suitable line at some bank, but at what interest rates. Let's talk a little bit more about what's ready for these banks that you've introduced to our market with your founding capital to give our economy, not just about how the people really are in despair, the misery, the lack of property, they have to go even in front of some banks, they're literally lines, they're taking these short-term loans. In order to warish huge debts for electricity, for utility, for children of all kinds, it takes heat for winter, to buy people a technical device, it is not as colorful and beautiful as you and Minister Dinkic want to present. You know that now someone asks you that you miss, and you certainly don't miss the cash, but that you have to take a loan of two thousand euros per five years in any of these banks that have been forced lately, you wouldn't do it, because as an economist and someone who deals with banking business, you know that you'll pay a lot more and that it's clean skin-wrestling, or that it's the interest of the founding and that it's extremely unfavourable. But you're not in that situation, in that need that you have to do it, and 80% of Serbian citizens are. Look, if people have a salary of 100 percent or much more than the average, or the average salary of 17,000 dinars, they are really obsessed with the opportunities offered from billboards and ads and running to banks to finish some work every day. There's no other way. We're going to get into a situation, but we're in a much bigger percentage than we are in Canada, because for one of their residents, 10 to 15%, the biggest dream and goal in life is to release the debt on payment cards. Now to look at the situation, as these payment cards have started among our citizens, you will see that in 80 or 90% of the cases people are already over-indebted. The checks are gone, you don't care how the people live. The so-called rival cards and the opportunities to be provided, which are supposed to be a substitute for checks, can't everyone get, has to deposit. And Minister Dinkic makes that deposit for these payment cards, with that rival character, you count on foreign exchange savings, that is, what the citizens have deposited as a mandatory deposit to come up with some opportunities to operate. So, the founding capital of the bank, and that's a purely literary question in Article 12, which Mr. Vukic asks to delete, is one demonstration of what the founding capital is, how secure these assets are, and writes here that it can't be less than 10,000 euros in dinar equivalent, but it's a waste to talk about when there's no possibility of any more Serbian bank doing business. The ones left, whether regional character or slightly larger, which have exposures throughout Serbia, simply beg God to enter the privatisation process as soon as possible, because they are these so-called. The parties, which on extremely favourable terms, with your will and will of the governors and ministers, have come to our markets, have broken down and they have no more to ask, in this competition they cannot survive. I must return to this question raised by counterpart Jaksic, when he spoke in favour of further arguing what Mladjan Dinkic said, that it was only in one part, counterpart Jaksic, correct. When you're talking hypothetically about mortgage law, because it's not a law that's still on the agenda, and MPs haven't taken that law into consideration, you have to potentify always the fact and what's true. And not to try and throw it away and say great, and the minister just told us what you wanted. He was clear about it, he told it a little fast and I'll tell you now slowly. It's all hypothetical. Is it going to be or won't be, you know, alone, what's going to happen to us today, what happens to us when we get out of this room, President of the Parliament, and whether someone doesn't let God trip or get out in the sun or in the snow, it's all uncertain. All of it, Mr. Jaksic, is only for the mortgage and possibility of future housing law in the construction, new and for the houses, which Mladjan Dinkic spoke of. I assume that you live in Serbia, in reality, in reality, and that in your Pyrot there is absolutely the same situation as with me in Kragujevac or in Zemun where Mrs Radeta is and in Pozarevec where my colleague Arsic is. The problem is with those properties that aren't registered. So 95% of the property in Kragujevac is not registered, not even the City of Kragujevac Assembly. The building I live in, or lived in, the family apartment in 1973, was not listed. Whole settlements. New Belgrade and all the blocs continue to be agricultural land. That's the problem and that's what the citizens are looking for. You're free to promise him 3.5% interest when he's got nothing to buy. Now that I will, and I really want as many Serbian citizens to solve this problem and try to do something, there is no way, and people are really bitter about it, because today and today none of these banks, or future Parivodic and Dinkic's law, give them the possibility that the deed or the ownership list, since counterpart Radeta is otherwise an expert on that part of the legal area, that they can replace the book. Buildings and cities in Serbia will be recorded for the next 20 years. That's the question, since one judge, and now I've got the information, is doing a booklet for all of New Belgrade and Zemun, and imagine how long it takes him if people are going to push and go. He's worthy and a good judge, they say, but he can't do it. It's all a complex problem, and it's not that big of a deal. You can't tell the citizens nice now, there are great and favourable housing loans, now this future mortgage law will give you the opportunity to put a mortgage on a building and it comes to a company, and usually it's a construction-urban mafia, which gets the opportunity to build cities, and especially in the center, to build apartments of much greater value than it's supposed to be a real market value. So the situation comes to you that in some parts of Kragujevac, where the economy is completely ruined, where 40,000 people have no job or ability to work, a square meter of apartment costs 1,400 euros. Then you ask, is it in Manhattan or in Kragujevac, and then you ask the question, why don't you give the possibility to citizens who can find, conditionally said, old apartments, which cost 600 or 700 euros, and if they're going to paint it, whether it's going to change the carpentry, that's his question, and that's twice as much, and somewhere three times less. These are all things that Dinkic is unable to solve and all of his financial experts, experts, or governors, because they do not make such favourable contracts when they conclude on behalf of the government contracts with banks, but citizens are forced to cope, and they are largely unable to cope. First, it's high credit lines... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I end up, paying nothing and the poor and those who can get into that kind of arrangement are blocked because of this biggest problem I've ever been talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22660	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. Any other parliamentary groups on this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. The next amendment that we will consider, we will not immediately, is on Article 13, which was submitted by MP Gordana Gajic. We'll be looking at him after one hour's break in the Rules of Procedure, we need to take a break from 1:00 to 2:00. Thank you. Especially after this warning, the Assembly adopts laws, but cannot work to strengthen character, so think carefully whenever it comes to spending, even now when you pay, and whether you will pay with a check or cash. By the way, thanks for the good wishes, the president never resorts to justification, and I don't know how, I tripped. Thank you. [[After break - 14.05.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I pray for understanding of the technical conditions of RTS, we will not start now at 1400 hours, but we will begin at 14.30 in order to allow us to have a direct transmission, so we will not work without transmission. So, at 2.30 p.m., we continue, the MPs who are ready to continue their work at 14.00 p.m. continue at exactly 2.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22663	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 13, which reads, "Article 13 is deleted. "Why do SRS MPs demand that members of the Bank Bill be deleted? Because this law is not right and because we believe that this law does nothing good to the citizens of Serbia. You, Minister, have become aware that Serbian citizens did not want you to be a minister in the Serbian government, they wanted someone else, but you do not respect it, you are looking to fulfill all the tasks that your friends from the West have ordered you to do here in the state of Serbia and do not care about the interests of Serbian citizens. We are aware that you are looking at the worst things to bring into Serbia and that is why we are against this law on banks. The MPs of the SRS will vote against this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22664	Anyone else on the same amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22665	In the light of this amendment to Article 13, to comment slightly on something from Article 12, since these Articles 12, 13 and 14 make up one continent. The last position of Article 12 therefore states that the NBS may prescribe closer conditions and means of security of funds. It's about founding capital. Something like that shouldn't stand in the law, but this law should regulate it. He does, though, in Article 12, in one of these attitudes, regulate the monetary part or that so-called. A minimum share of capital capital in the dinar equivalent of 10m euros. You see, this irregularity from the last position of Article 12 is spreading to other members, although Article 13 refers to the founding act. There are a few things here that shouldn't stand, to be written like you suggested. You started by saying that the founding act of the bank contains, and then the business name and so on. It's a translation mistake. That's where you had to, if you wanted to regulate this, to specify that the founding act is being arranged, and then the business name, that's some kind of founding agreement between the people who claim to be founders, so they say, predicate, because by the members who follow, and you'll see what the procedure is, there are two phases. Not to order all these things that need to be regulated by the founding act, arranged, agreed, to be more precise, so in point 8, you listed the way in which you covered the loss of the bank. You forgot the part about how to distribute the bank. Why do I say that? Because, in addition to some subsequent provisions, it defines how to cover losses and obligations that must be respected before a plan is made to distribute profits if it appears at the end of the financial year, all this must also be stated in the outlines as a result of the founding act's agreement. Furthermore, point 10) you stated that in the founding act, they would, as you say, contain contracts or offices, so point 10) of the founding party's rights in the event of status changes in the bank. This only suggests to me that we can conclude that those people who did this bill were looking a little at the Business Society Act. I don't know how they could arrange some future status changes of the bank when, in the context of the status changes, it means attaching, joining, dividing, so you basically put something in here just for the sake of order, because they can't agree on this. Whatever they're agreeing, it couldn't be true, because in this area, the other provisions of the Law on Banks and the Company Act apply specifically to this area. At the very end, I can also conclude this last position - the NBS can prescribe that the founding act contains other mandatory elements, i.e. data. You're very bad at using these two words and elements and data because they're not data. The basic act of each company shall contain clear declarations of the will of the party Parties, with precise rules and obligations, and the rights and obligations cannot be devalued in such a way that they represent elements or data. And it's particularly similar to the remark that I just made, which concerns Article 12, and that's the last position -- the NBS cannot get that authority, because if the governor of the NBS gets the authority, that is, to some extent, to prescribe something further, then we can come up with a situation where these decisions, methodology, recommendations and other instruments in the jurisdiction of the governors of the NBS are disabling the whole law. What can happen? It may happen that those who wish to establish a bank and who feel that they should meet only these conditions from points 1) to 12), that these conditions should contain their founding act, and this preparation, report to the National Bank, and she says, you will have to do this and more because the governor of the National Bank has concluded that what is prescribed by law is not enough. The rule is that conditions and ways of achieving a right are prescribed by law. Underlaw, only some technical questions can be arranged without violating the material provision and material content and the essence of a law-edited right. You'll see later, almost every member in the last position says that the National Bank can prescribe, so what, the conditions and the way -- just what must be prescribed by law. And these remarks should be taken into account when deciding on this amendment and in general on this bill, because the founding act here is treated as an administrative act, not an act that expresses the consent of those who want to establish a bank, to be founders, shareholders and to deal with banking affairs, which only indicates that it is a poor translation of a law from closer to the environment, not a bill that would rely on basic law on the matter of companies, which is the law that was passed in this assembly last year, where these things are prescribed. And especially this observation that they can negotiate status changes before the bank is founded. Whenever it comes to some status changes, it is always directly applicable to the law, with its provisions that regulate the accession, the merger of two banks into a new bank, and therefore it is a practice to give minimum conditions in such regulations to be met in order for someone to exercise a right. Here we obviously have a problem with a law that overcomes even possible powers that the National Assembly can give to one regulatory and control body, as in the banking business, the National Bank of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22666	Thank you very much, Mr. Krassic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22667	The substance of the amendment was explained in a way by counterpart Krasic, what is the SRS insistence: that it is not left in Article 13. the possibility that the National Bank will determine additional conditions. Of course, there's always good intentions behind or above that, but we don't know who's going to be governor of the National Bank tomorrow and whether it's going to be selectively applied, all depending on which bank needs to set additional conditions. It's something that, in any case, in addition to these tax-listed terms, creates the possibility of a certain doubt that tomorrow the governor of the National Bank will be changed, and maybe when he sells the villa he won't be willing to be governor, there may be something else going on, but in any case, to put it aside. It's his attitude and his relationship, in the end it's a moral question, if anything, whether this governor will finally sell that villa or resign because of the villa. What's very interesting is that in this way additional burden is being placed on the establishment and functioning of individual banks or the possibility of making it difficult for some banks to establish or function. Interestingly, the finance minister's story comes down to the fact that the opening of new banks in Serbia has simply contributed to the growth of financial, economic, economic and any other situation in Serbia. But what matters is, the public needs to know. The minister explained the other side, which is why some banks have been abolished and some have been sold, and the bottom line has not been explained, which is that, in this case, ministers are not as interesting banks, nor important as those who were depositors or commissioners of these banks are important. We have a situation to question literally by selling the Vojvodjanska Banka or by asking for an answer who will be the owner of most of the property located in the Vojvodina area. If you look at the liquidity of the Vojvodjanska Banka, as well as Beobanka, you will come to the conclusion made by the minister, and previously applied, which is that only the business of the loss bank and then everyone will say, it is not worth it to the state to cover those losses, it is better to sell to someone. What about that property that the bank's commissioners pawned? What about those companies, cooperatives, companies, which, for the sake of a loan, are going to put in a mortgage stock, so by buying a bank for such cheap money, as the minister has simplifiedly explained, we have covered our losses, we have saved the banking system, we have fired 8,500, which is surprising to me, because it is officially a 25,000-dollar piece of information. It's official data provided by the government, 25,000 fired bank workers. It is not the essence of solving the problem but by liquidating or selling banks, a realistic question arises who will be Serbia's future owner. Because, through the Belgrade Bank, the newly-sad, Vojvodina and other banks, the purchase of these banks becomes the majority owner of the immovable property, i.e. with what Serbia has as property, and that is the key issue. And it was done thanks to the former governor of the National Bank and thanks to the great contribution of the current finance minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22668	Thank you, no need to throw away, I have no intention of defending Cory Widowsky. The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22669	For the sake of the public and for those who don't know it, one explanation. Your fear is irrelevant, for the simple reason that in the privatisation process banks are clearing the bank balance and all what the mortgages are derived from the balance and not being sold to foreigners. That's how it's done in the case of the JU Bank, so it's going to be in the case of the Vojvodjanska Banka. In other words, the bank is privatised with its capital, and the claims and mortgages established on the basis of some old loans are set aside by the one who buys the Vojvodina Bank will not buy land in Vojvodina, as some fear. So, that fear is meaningless. We took care of all of this at the YU Bank, and at the Novosadska Banka, and at the Continental Bank, as well as at the Vojvodina Bank.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22670	Mr. Mircic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22671	First of all, it's been a while since we've been able to take our word for it. Those times must have passed after the five-eyed revolution. I guess people are out of their minds, and you've stayed with advocating theory -- if I don't have a real foothold in the law, if it's not real in life, then believe me. It was one party that asked for trust, you said, and Serbia failed. Minister, you cannot deny this appeal of yours that we trust you with the word, the fact that the sale and privatisation of the Novosada Bank, for example, by Erste Bank, the shares held by the Bank of Novosada or mortgage, the stock held by the Bank of Novosada, that this was released by an estimate of the value of the Novosada Bank's capital given in the privatisation process as the value of the bank, and that everything the Novosadska Bank had on behalf of the loan, either in the form of shares or in the form of a mortgage, that it was released. That's not true. In order not to refer to what is not your argument, it is not a word, but to check, you see, many companies, not only in the area of Novi Sad, but in Vojvodina, literally go under ownership or control of the new owner. I cited Erste as an example of the bank and the bank of Novosad, not for any other reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22672	Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by MP Rodoljub Gačević. The government has not accepted this amendment. The People's Messenger Rodoljub Gačević has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22673	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law on banks should be withdrawn from the assembly procedure, for the reasons that SRS MPs have stated, which is to prevent further collapse of this entire banking system, that is, the destruction of the banking system of the state, and of course, the entire economy. For these reasons, it would be much better to withdraw such a law than to consider it further and waste time. Not only for these reasons, but also for other formal reasons, it is necessary to do the same, because many members, as defined in this law, are pointless, have no clarity, precision, are confusing. Such is, for example, Article 14 relating to the Statute. It is clear that this law should define what the bank's statutes contain. It doesn't stand here, but it's quite unspeakable, said in general. All of this makes the whole law unclear, inaccurate, so it's better to delete it, as we suggested, than to have it written and proposed. For example, Article 14 states in this law: the statutes of the bank contain, and point 3) "the questions decided by the other authorities of the bank, the composition and decision-making process of these bodies, as well as the mandate of the members of those bodies". It's so vague, it's inaccurate. There's nowhere to be found which organs, whether it's a relevant board of directors, executive boards, etc., but there's a parole that doesn't have any particular meaning and there's nothing that's clearly and precisely defined here. In the same article, point 8 says "data and documents considered to be a business secret bank and a way to deal with these data and documents". Completely inaccurate and vague. In Section 4 of this Act, Article 46 here clearly states what it refers to, what data is available to the public, which data is only available to certain authorities, e.g. the authorities of prosecution, judicial authorities, etc. This is another pointless formality. The same point 9) says: "other elements, i.e. data". What's this about? There's nothing in here that's concrete, and you don't know it. In some ways, this is similar to what was once about joint work, when a description and a list of jobs were made, so when it was necessary to define which jobs the worker needed to do, it is said in the end - all that the direct manager gave him in the task, or order. Approximately, that's what this argument says. Finally, he says, "NBS can prescribe that the bank's statutes contain other mandatory elements, i.e. data." What's this about? I, or anyone else, can understand what it's all about, and this confusing law is great for both corruption and abuse, and it gives one maneuvering space, if it's going to be on the hands of all of this, in the end and malfeasance. At least the formal government is pushing to curb corruption, crime and all these negative phenomena that stand in society. How is it going to be when it's written so inaccurately and vaguely? All of this gives space just to work like that and to carry on with it. I would like to ask Mr. Minister, since he is present, to give me an answer, if possible now, if not, to be considered a parliamentary question. Many who have lost their jobs, have been declared a technological surplus in banks, have had conditions, says - if there are five more years to obtain pension rights, then he is paid a fee as a technological surplus and some have received, some will get maybe in the course of the year, a certain amount of money. Last year there was one limit of 968,000 dinars, when a citizen has the income he is obliged to pay income tax. They ask if, on that basis, they will have to pay income tax in this year, and this is five years from now. I think it would be logical not to pay for cases like this when workers are declared technological surpluses, they are left out of work, it is not correct to pay taxes on citizens' income. So they're still gonna get 10%. I'd ask him to answer that, because some of them told me they sent a letter. Mr. Minister, I don't know if you've received or received such letters, but some of my community have already asked such questions and asked for an answer, so they know what to do next.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22674	Mr. Gatsevic, we'll pass it on as a parliamentary question. I see there are consultations for interpretation. I ask you in the morning, with the service, to check the formulation of the parliamentary question, so we can get the correct answer. We're all interested. Here you are, according to the same amendment, Mr Krasic. Mr. Markovic, check the record. Before I sign it, I'll send it to you. Before a parliamentary question is sent, the president will sign it. In case there is any kind of misunderstanding, the minutes shall be consulted. If something is not clear in the stenogram, the MP who asked the question is consulted, which is common. This is just a request, because we'd do it first thing in the morning, because I realized the importance, it's coming to an end of the year. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22675	I would ask you to take a look at what is stated in Article 14. It's a bill of law. It's a member who regulates the bank's statutes. In order for those who have not read the bill, and are in this room, I must say that here is a very complicated procedure for the adoption of statutes. We will not be able to come to article 19 until later where the statutes are laid down in the Assembly. First comes something that is a draft, a proposal in this procedure, which in the first phase of the procedure referred to in Article 15, and only then comes to the Assembly, which practically has to adopt what it has gained consent to, but about when Article 15 comes to the agenda. Here you also stated that the bank statute contains and essentially contains nothing. The most important thing that it contains is in point 9) of other elements, i.e. data, and you can freely attribute this point 9 to this point), that the National Bank of Serbia can prescribe that the statutes of the bank contain other mandatory elements, i.e. data. Since the National Bank is wondering about the staff, about the property, about the organization, about the consistency of this, the one, etc., literally, then we don't need this law. If we are to appreciate the seriousness of this law on what the government's representative says -- believe me, it won't be so, then we just have to realize that something that's the opposite of that is definitely going to happen. Let's start in a row. In 2000, 6.5 billion were said at the border, and as soon as the regime fell, it would immediately cross the border and be operational. It wasn't just Mr. Dinkic talking, that's what everyone was saying. There's nothing out of 6.5 billion. Then it is further said - everything will develop on market principles, everything will be right. Of course, none of that happened. This morning we heard that those women who worked in Beobanca on the counter were bogeymen, unkind, which is why the bank had to shut down. Then we heard it was so much deeper that the banks had to go out and it was booming right away. Then we heard that one billion were returned to the citizens in the name of old foreign currency savings, but now we have two billion in foreign exchange savings. That reminds me more of that, letting the bank get in the car, and two banks get out of the car. He never said what structure it was. Even here, the minister from this place just said -- and why don't you announce who's got the money on savings. Which the minister doesn't publish. Where did you get the information from the MPs? How do citizens get information about how much money? If something's wrong, the government's here, let her finish it, let her know. We know, a small number of people have money on savings, because a small number of people can have a positive outcome of their lives and business in this period. Next, I'm proud of the banking system. Please, we're not Switzerland. Someone who first looks at this assembly and when they hear our minister, he will think that Serbia is not Serbia but Switzerland. Why? The banking system is operating perfectly, and the economy is in chaos. It doesn't go with each other. You said in this way, Minister, that these banks are doing well because they launder money from abroad, some criminal money, so you said there are now more employees in the banking sector than in 2001. How many employees are there in the industry? In order to balance these public finances, you know, on one pensioner you need to have an optimal 2.5 employees who create some new value, whether in the domain of production, whether in the service domain. This is where it all got mixed up. Serbia is not Switzerland. Where did the banks get so much interest in our market? That we didn't become those exotic islands for those banks? The state needs foreign exchange, as you now say to investment, is a rescue in investment. The salvation in you is that people lose their jobs in production. You hire something in these banks, everything's going on licking, from tie to whatever you want, and even locomotives to licking, everything's going on. Your story and reality are two separate worlds. If you think you can bring these two worlds together into one reality, that our daily life is what you say in terms of prosperity, I'm not sure this last attitude can contribute. The National Bank can make its regulations closer to the requirements, both the way and the mandatory content and all of this, etc. You, in addition to creating a monopoly in the banking system, but even that monopoly you don't create as you wish, because outside the borders there is competition, so there are more interested groups, across the shipowner's son, to whom I don't know. You give them this market and you amnesty. That's the point. From all that, nothing from that co-production drops like a tear to stay here. That's the problem. You want that state to fund now. With what? It's this law, and we're trying to stop you, so we're putting up with the amendments. They're pointless to you, they don't touch the content of a specific member, we understand what you're saying. You're welcome to say that. You can attack us, challenge us, etc., but you're responsible for reality. It's all you've forgotten. This is where the governor of the National Bank gets more authority than these two presidents in co-habitation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22676	Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The word has a People's MP Darko Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22677	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, Article 15, as well as the previous amendments submitted by the MPs of the SRS, aims to delete Article 15 of this Law. Also, eradicating that member of the law, which in Section 2 treats the preliminary approval for the establishment of a bank, i.e. some 10 documents needed to be issued for the establishment of a bank, of course that would devise the whole law and that the law would then not be passed, but that is exactly the goal of all our amendments, to adopt one of these amendments that foresees erasing one of these members of the law and that this law does not pass. What is the real consequence and what is the motive for adopting and passing such a law? Of course, in the past five years, quite a few things have been done in this area that stand out and jump out of the legal framework. One such law would put all that was done over the past five years into legal frameworks. Because of this, Mladjan Dinkic, whom many consider to be such or such, I believe this move shows that he is a cunning man, because he very successfully anticipates what will happen in the coming period. He knows that after the next election, the G17 plus as a party goes very badly. He knows who comes to power in the next election, so he is not like Boris Tadic, whose ideology is mirrored, he is not like Bogoljub Karic, whose ideology is "left hand of the right pocket". Dale, Mladjan Dinkic provides nicely for things, what we have done, what we have done, and now we have to pack it in some legal framework. He'll ask someone when he comes to power after the next election, which will be very soon, what happened to the National Bank, what happened to the Savings, what happened to a lot of things that are an apparent violation of the law. Now let's bring one law back-to-back, quickly deliver to the MPs the maltene before the debate, bring it in to put these things in legal and legal flows. It is the essence of this law and therefore this law, there have been even some speculation that it will be withdrawn before this debate, but no, the finance minister clearly knows that perhaps after the budget the ruling majority, perhaps even before the adoption of the budget, may happen that these elections are much faster than expected, so that we pack it properly (expectes, thank you, my lapus). So, these elections are expected, the government is expecting them later, but it looks like it's going to happen incomparably faster than many are predicting. I must refer to two sentences that Minister Dinkic said about this pay phone when you said there was a lot of money deposited in banks. It's like the people just don't know what to do with the money, like the people are living better and better. I'd like to give you a suggestion to take a walk in any city in Serbia, to go out amongst the people, and just see that the picture you present here really doesn't have a single percent of the reality of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And when you say that a pensioner likes to wait in line, believe me, they don't like it. The money they receive and the pension they receive is not pleased to wait in ranks to raise it. It's just their pain. I've got a pensioner's house, so I know very well that it's not waiting in line or for the machine, but it's waiting for when the money's coming that's going to help people survive and put together from first to first. So, the essence of this law is to put into the legal framework what was done in the previous five years, and I think, if there is a healthy mind amongst the MPs, above all the ruling majority that should be declared to support them primarily in the budget, and I see that some MPs are already slowly thinking with their heads and saying they don't want natural solutions, that they don't want someone to call them and tell them -- vote for the budget, vote for this or for that law. So on Monday, when we vote on the budget, solve this situation and the political crisis that we have, we will go to new extraordinary parliamentary elections, and in these parliamentary elections we will get the right and authentic representatives of the government, we will have the right picture that the people want, not only in the Ministry of Finance, but in all the pores of society, in all the places that represent the holders of very important political decisions in this country, and I am convinced that they would be Serbian radicals, and then we will go to work things out in the right way. So when I say radically, then I mean the most positive. The minister used radically in a negative context, he said when he had to fire workers he had to act radically at the time. Then you've done reform or democratically, say whatever you want. I believe that after the next elections, the SRS will really bring the citizens into this situation to feel better.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22678	Here you go, Mr. Krassic, according to the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22679	It is practically a member who begins Section Two, which regulates the first and second stages of the bank's establishment process. Since I know that most MPs have not read the bill, here the whole set-up phase is based on the system: it can, if it accepts the governor of the National Bank; if the governor of the National Bank has a sneeze, then nothing can. As it has been so far and as it exists in many countries, independent of these directives and of what is coming from Basel. So far, it has been said that if someone wants to engage in economic activity, they should meet the law of the prescribed conditions and register and start doing so. This is how the establishment of a company as a legal person is done. The exception was some of the activities, where already registered legal entity could carry out that activity if it was authorised to work by the competent national authority. How was that done at the banks? There is no legal person here with the banks, it only occurs when a work permit is obtained, and in a preliminary procedure, those who beg practically the governor to allow them to be a legal person. So it's not a procedure here in the sense that I'm going to get permission to do some work, it's a procedure: please let us make a legal face. I do not dispute that there are such examples in parallel practice, but there is no example that the overall procedure, which you call the first and second phase, is in such a state of health, emotion and will of the governor of the National Bank. How are the promoters trying to camouflage? By way of derogation from Article 15, all necessary bank founders are required to submit NBS in order to obtain a preliminary approval for the establishment of a bank. If we accept as the starting point your concept and stick to the matter of your concept, then some things here are not clear. If the founders submit what is from point 1) to point 9) and fulfil all these preliminary conditions, the NBS then brings, according to what is written, preliminary approval, but you do not have the content of this preliminary authorisation in this article. What are you doing with that preliminary approval, because you're bringing it into the form of a solution? What do you stand for? Data on the founders of the bank, the founding act and the draft statutes, a statement that the financial amount of the underlying capital to be paid, data on all persons to participate in the bank, personnel, risk management procedures, evidence of the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in Article 94(3) of this Act. The NBS may require the founders of the bank to deliver other documents to it. So everything you wrote in the law is valid and not valid, but if the governor says you'll have more, then the video. Then he says - that request is decided within 90 days of the receipt of an orderly request. There should be a point for Article 15, so that a new member goes, so the preliminary approval shall contain, and then be approved, which shall be given to those potential founders, within which time limits. It's not there. Then what's going on should be a special member. So, after 60 days from the date of receipt of the preliminary approval to the National Bank, they apply for an authorisation to work and all that to be indicated. Again, I have no answer to the question, and why the preliminary approval is not published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". You later prescribed the release of the permit for work. Why is this preliminary approval not published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia"? A team shall follow a new 60-day deadline to apply for a work permit. Why? You don't care about the public. The very will of the governor of the NBS matters. All this law to re-write into two members: the banks will do as the governor of the NBS says and another member of this law came into force yesterday. There, you'll vote for it. It's not meant to put the name and name of the governor in one law, but you can put that on, because anything is possible with you. You see, if we start with the conceptal reasons of the founding act and the way it's set up, this isn't just about control and whether it's about to be a license for one piece of action, it's about a license for the existence of a legal person. This law is absolutely unconstitutional. We radicals have no need to communicate with your President of the Constitutional Court. There are so many proposals that we have launched, and even in this year, it was likely that 50 laws could have been challenged in front of the Constitutional Court, i.e. to initiate proceedings, and they there, you know what they are, and this interest, and that interest. If you're moving in your system, two stages to establishment, etc., and that's where you made a mistake. So someone can't be a legal person, because it depends on the will of the governor of the NBS. Much more than his will than the conditions prescribed by law. People, it's unacceptable, there's no legal certainty, there's just suspense, volunteerism, this is a source of bribery and corruption, please don't, on Monday on the agenda to put on an anti-corruption decision, here's corruption. The state stimulates corruption. Then you wonder how his fairy, how this, what, whether 300 or this much or so. While he was in Hungary, he had no dog to bite him for, so he came here and got rich as some former scholarship and talent for some things.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22680	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22681	Good when it's time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22682	Thank you. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic and withdrawn in writing. It was divided during the session. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, John Day. The government has not accepted this amendment. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22683	In Article 16, they prescribe the refusal to issue a preliminary authorisation for the establishment of a bank, and now says, if the founding act and the proposed statute, it is a proposal for a statute, not in accordance with the law and other regulations (I do not know what other regulation might be), the proposed member of the management or executive board of the bank does not have the appropriate qualification or experience, or good business reputation. So, for that and that banker, you won't give consent, because you think he doesn't meet those conditions, he doesn't like the governor of the National Bank. I don't like that man, here I am not going to give you a preliminary approval for the establishment of a bank, not because he is prone to crime, corruption, convicted, was in the board of directors of a bank that has failed, participated in money laundering, etc. No, he doesn't like the governor, he criticized him at the Banking Association meeting or made a statement, say, to Culibrka, so it was published, or the RTS commented on the banking system, you can't, I don't like you, zini, you can't. When you criticize the governor, you can't be in the personnel structure of any bank. That's what you wrote. The person who would gain participation in the bank does not meet the conditions for that acquisition. It's probably meant to be an influence based on the value of capital. The proposed programme of bank activities and the management business policy plan are not appropriate. How can you write that? That's where you made three years in advance to make a plan. People made a plan. We're going to stimulate consumer loans because we think there's something here. The governor of the National Bank, meanwhile, has made a decision and now says that by making a decision on mandatory placements and stimulating that we channel funds towards that activity and those areas, we will reduce consumer loans or reduce something else, or we will make such rigorous conditions that they must therefore increase reserves or the bank is obliged to buy state securities of value etc. It can change overnight without man knowing it's changed, because the procedure lasts 90 days. We had a situation now, until this IMF commission came along, there were some conditions on the banking market, consumer loans were stimulated, licking etc. He finished his IMF stay in Serbia, lined up the entire state leadership of the Republic of Serbia, and the next day, we'll have to see, there won't be a 10% stake, but we'll probably raise to 30%. The interest rate has to change, this has to change and the one that's in the reception phase, the preliminary approval based, just good-bye, you can't and you don't fit. I can't fit in because I didn't even know what politics would be. It all depends on the governor. Further says, the ownership and management structure of the bank does not enable effective control, it is a dibidus arbitrary. The bank's ownership and management structure, and the bank still doesn't exist. There is only a founding act and he concluded that the ownership and property structure does not allow control, because the founder allegedly, so now that he's seen where he's spread out and where he's hidden his capital, they know it now. Wrong. It's all wrong. He says the structure of the banking group, and this is now a special category, whose member would become a bank is not transparent. She's not transparent? Find me a legal criterion, something familiar with the legislation to be used as a condition. He's gone. All uncertainty, literally, in front of the NBS governor's office is going to set up five kilos of corn and whoever wants to get this approval must kneel to that corn, who endures the gain, and who can't stand to come. Maybe this bag that's circulating here. And you were wearing a bag last night. I don't know, people, what made you step on the legal-political system, step on everyone. Remember, in this country, thank God, there are still living people. What are you guys doing? The oxygen in this country can't depend on Jelasic and Dinkic, it can't, it's incompatible. You dead people read the newspapers, interpret these far-reaching visionary thoughts of Mladjan Dinkic, with a sock and no socks. Don't do this, people. If we need a regulation, give a regulation based on something based primarily on the Constitution, on some known sizes. I'm not sure this directive you're referring to is exactly how this works. Not to say I've been reading some, so I've seen what it says there. It doesn't say this, it doesn't write this kind of control. This isn't control, this is self-will. Because you're going with this will, you're going to have to fall into power as soon as possible, because this has become unbearable. You are now insulting dignity, come on the messenger, don't treat them, you are insulting people's common sense. Is it possible that everything can depend on Jelasic and Dinkic? I warn you, this law in this text must not be passed. If that suits you, I order you not to vote for this law. Do you understand? Okay. Make sure you don't make a mistake. I may deliberately encourage you to make a mistake so that it would be so naked that everyone sees what you're doing, you go towards the detailed destruction of everything and everything in the Republic of Serbia. Are you called legalists, whether you're reformists, for democracy, for planetary unity, whether you're internationalists, it doesn't matter, but you're destroying. Since democracy emerged, there has been a time of misery, misery in Serbia wherever you turn. The misery in the soul is on its way. It's a poor soul that someone has to beg Jelasic to give him preliminary approval to start a bank? Who in Serbia will contact him with a request? No one, and why? You've done it all, you've given it all to strangers. It is easier to list what is left if you did not give to foreigners than to list what is left for strangers and the question is whether these are foreigners from those islands or whether they are ours with a different name and last name, such as this Karicev. We will not give you support for this, but we will criticise you, and we will insist on the president over each amendment that we go out and repeat, to bring everyone, first these in the Assembly, and then the public to see where Mladjan Dinkic, Miroljub Labus, G17 Plus, Jelasic and those who support this government and this minister leads.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22684	I think all 250 MPs heard what you told them. According to the same amendment, the word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22685	Dear colleagues, the SRS asked for the removal of the entire article 16 but not only of Article 16, but of all the members of this law, considering and considering what the bankers in our country said about this law, and what you can read in both the press and their statements during the public debate on this law. Article 16, which speaks of when the National Bank may reject the request referred to in Article 15, which concerns this preliminary authorisation, is particularly unacceptable in points 2), (3), (5) and (6). If you take a closer look at this point 2), where it is said that the bank will reject this request, the reason for this could be that the proposed member of the management or executive board of the bank does not have a proper qualification or experience, or good business reputation. So, when the NBS gives this preliminary consent, it specifically rejects the proposed members of the board of directors and executives, the question is, what is a good business reputation and what is not and who is who defines and by which criteria it determines: is this a criterion for whether it is moral-politicalally similar, whether it is a member of a political party, whether it sings nicely, whether it is wearing a short skirt, which is better hair and similar. Everywhere there is the possibility of subjectiveism and subjective decision, without clearly prescribed criteria, it is clear that this leads to the discretionary right of someone who is once again not able to decide and is left with the possibility that on the basis of some of his personal animosities or some personal friendly relationships with someone who decides one way or another, and that no one can do so anywhere or under any authority to challenge it. Point 3 says that the person who would gain participation in the bank does not meet the requirements for that acquisition, which is also the reason that the request is rejected and is the same for these criteria for obtaining participation in the bank. So the question is whether Peconi and his firm Inway are okay or not, they can or can't. Who's going to decide on what criteria? Under point 5, the question arises: what does external audit and effective monitoring of credit quality mean? Whether the National Savings Bank was asked, with its ownership structure prior to sale, was transparent and credited, or was it okay, so the NBS did not react. Is the Salford Fund, the owner of all the dairy, "The Book of Milosha", transparent, credited or not? Does this mean that all banks where they're the founders or that they can't buy more shares in any bank? There are a thousand questions here, and everything can come to terms with who defines these criteria and how. I doubt the minister can give us an adequate answer to this question and it is the opinion of many bankers today in Serbia, whether they are domestic bankers, what little some domestic banks have left, or are these new banks that have come, and they are advertised and they are asking who will define it, who will define these criteria, and they think that they will have to pass a new law very quickly and that this is absolutely inapplicable. Given what the bankers themselves say about this and taking into account the discrepancies of these laws with many international and foreign laws on this issue, we believe that this law is completely unsustainable, inapplicable and will further cause chaos in the banking system, which Dinkic and Jelasic and that they have been destroying since they exist on the political scene of Serbia, since they have acquired these functions, which do not belong to them at all, except that they have done some dirty work related to our banking system, and not only the bankers feel that, above all, the businessmen and all the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22686	Does any other parliamentary group want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stevica Dedjanski. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22687	Since it was very dense for the promoters to see this through as soon as possible, I'm only going to tell you about some formal-legal deficiencies that would never happen in a normal service. So never. Article 17 should regulate the situation after obtaining a preliminary authorisation for the establishment of a bank, i.e. you are now in the position of the first, if, following the prior approval of the change of data or document, it is okay; after receipt of the notice, the NBS will abolish the solution to grant a preliminary authorisation if the conditions for granting that authorisation are no longer met, then, again, another possibility. And now there goes a special position which is very interesting: "The founders of the bank whose request for preliminary approval has been rejected (and you tell me where it stands forward in any member the possibility to reject the request for prior authorisation, you do not have it, so you have now entered into the regulation of a situation that does not exist) or you have refused (this has been resolved) or a preliminary authorisation has ceased to apply (as there is a 60-day period) cannot again submit this request within one year of the date of rejection or refusal of that request, or the termination of the validity of the preliminary authorisation. "It could in practice look like this, the founders suggested that in the personnel structure of the bank be nn face. Since it did not like the governor of the National Bank, he did not give a solution or issue a preliminary approval for the establishment of a bank. After 20 days, the deficit is removed, there's practically nothing to do, it's gotta wait at least a year, that's the situation. Next, he says, "After obtaining preliminary approval, and before entering the bank into the register of economic operators, the founders of the bank can"; again a mistake. In Article 13, where you were discussing the Bank's founding act, you had to specify as one of the points the name of the person authorised to represent the founders at the bank's establishment phase. You didn't even say that. Why? Because it was thick, it was high speed. This law must be passed while the majority exists, while someone else supports trade and conditionality, let us legalize this law that should enable the integrity and longevity of the acquired positions, because it is estimated, when this government falls, probably three or four months must pass until this new government is built up, oriented in time and space, changing governors, changing the Council, with that mathematician Kovacevic, changes the law, and starts to correct what has been ruined in this period. It's that tactics that were applied in this bill. These things and these failures would never have happened if the bill's proposals were done as usual, as was the case in this country, in a way that the Republic Secretariat for legislation from the beginning to the end was involved in the process of creating a draft of an act, so why not say, starting with advice on an idea solution to what should be contained in this law, up to the text that appears in the Government as a proposal. If we had the Secretariat for Legislative Order, he would notice these shortcomings, pointed out, defined a way to address these shortcomings. These are huge shortcomings. These defects are particularly severe if this deadline of one year is considered, in which something is not allowed to be a legal person. It's not that it's not that you're allowed to act, it's not that you're allowed to form a legal person. After this law, many who are professionally involved in this area, I am already hinting at these people from the Faculty of Law and Economics, have this inexhaustible topic, and probably there are also topics for good scientific works, on what has been deliberately missed here in order to fulfill the will of some individuals, some groups. What Mrs. Pop-Lazic said, now we can look for new even more rigorous conditions because the pets have passed. It's never been transparent for the National Savings Bank. You've had plenty of opportunities to hear how that founding capital moved and what happened to the foreign reserves held in that Russian bank. I think that it's clear to people and that this isn't where you should go in detail as far as Article 17. It is only important to potentiate because of these people who need to declare themselves, that even in this two-phase concept before the establishment and prior to the registration and registration of the bank there are inconsistencies and failures that are inadmissible, and they overcome its greatness as governor of the National Bank of Serbia, who is authorized for everything and for everything. Under this law, the governor can act like the law doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22688	Thank you very much, Mr. Krassic. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22689	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if the minister had accepted the amendment to Article 1, we wouldn't be working all day today and we wouldn't be working late at night, if the minister had pulled this bill back to work, if something like this could be done, but it's hardly possible. Mr Krasic explained perfectly why the amendments from the SRS are like this, and I will try to return to Article 16, to read point 2), 4) and 6), to see how much indifference and indifference are there. He says this: "The National Bank of Serbia will reject the requirement of Article 15(1) of this law if," and says "the proposed member of the Management Board or the Executive Board of the Bank does not have the appropriate qualifications or experience" which could be right, "that is, a good business reputation". I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, MPs from the ruling coalition, I ask Mr. Minister, who issue a certificate for a good business reputation? Where does a good business reputation exam go? What does this look like? Point 4) says, if "the proposed programme of bank activities, a business policy plan and risk management procedures and internal control are not appropriate. "What are these appropriate ones? I guess the law says you and the rest aren't fit. What is unicum in this article is said in point 6) "the structure of a banking group whose member would become a bank is not transparent. "I would like to see how it is determined that something is transparent or not. Get rid of those revolutionary steamers from the Bulldozer Revolution. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the reasons for the amendment to Article 1 and to all other amendments are quite fine, I will read it and you will see why we will vote against this and why our amendments are like this. He says, "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should not be a voting machine in office of G17 and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The proposed law on banks should impair all abuses of Mladjan Dinkic and his friends, and for these reasons was delivered to the MPs just before the start of the debate, so that they could not study the law and inform the public of the intentions of Mladjan Dinkic through a debate in the Assembly. "We had a total of two and a half hours since the law came to prepare the amendments and hand them over. Speaking of which, I'd like to ask Minister Dinkic a parliamentary question and ask him to answer in writing. Did the Greek bank, which bought the National Savings Bank, also get those 7,200 squares of business space and whether it was determined the following - how much business space was paid; if all the assets of the National Savings Bank were calculated in addition to the business space, how much the business space would have been paid for the state to sell it in the tender; because if you don't forget, these are all business premises from the former Payment Service, so the Institute of Accounting and Payment, and these buildings are mostly located in the city centers, in the centre of Zemun, downtown of Belgrade, the centre of Nis, etc. Is that the most expensive business space? When this is calculated, how much of that business space did the shareholders get, and I mean Hamovic, Lazarevic, all those shareholders who were shareholders at the National Savings Bank, and how many countries did they get and see how many states were robbed in this way?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22690	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Milos Disic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Disic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22691	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 18, which reads, "It is deleted." This is where the MPs of the SRS clearly and loudly said why this law should be withdrawn and why we have submitted these amendments, mostly all under the assumption that it should be deleted. The National Assembly needs to bring something here in the interest of Mr. Mladjan Dinkic and all his manipulations from 2000 to today we should bless. The reasons for adopting this law are mostly standard, and we could hear them so far through all the laws that have been passed, which is that we have to pass laws so that we can come to the EU. All the laws adopted on these principles are mostly wrong and they are inconclusive with us in Serbia. This story has been told thousands of times and it is clear and loud to all, and its product is mostly visible, which is through poor standards and the lives of Serbian citizens, who have become largely intolerable. We suggest that you withdraw this law from the procedure and make it easier for the citizens of Serbia and for us, that we do not sit here all day and beat empty straw, because of this law, as you know, there will be nothing left, we will only pass one disastrous law, which will destroy little that remains. Article 18 reads: "The NBS Bank's work permit shall be granted after the granting of preliminary approvals and the submission of requests for this authorisation". You should have written it more clearly here, that it should be done mostly by a minister or governor of the National Bank, because it will depend mainly on their goodwill on who gets all these permits, who can do everything and whose banks. Mostly Serbian banks won't do this, nor will they get these permits. That's your principle, and that's something that you've proven through operation so far, since 2000, as you've been in politics, through this G17 plus of yours, I wouldn't call it a party, but to say that the party, not to be vulgar now. Most of the work the National Assembly needs to mutilate, and this is very difficult and awkward, and Serbian radicals will not participate in it. What's the best thing you could do right now? That would be the only thing that's right, and that's to pull this law out of the process and not bother around here anymore. You should leave it to someone who has clean morals and cheeks to do these laws on the banking system, because mostly the banking system of Serbia no longer exists. Let's not go back to those stories you told. I suppose you'll also prove in court that four of the largest banks have been destroyed, where the money from Cyprus is. Al-Qaeda is now mentioned as the biggest culprit for destroying those Serbian millions of dollars and euros. It is Al-Qaeda's fault for the disappearance of that money, so I would ask you to explain it a little better to the citizens of Serbia. Something happened on September 11, 2001 in America, so it was Al-Qaeda. The end result and the disappearance of money belonging to the Serb people is unknown. It is up to you to give up this law, to leave it to honest and honest people to write a nice and fine law from which Serbia will benefit. There are a lot of honest people. We in the SRS know these people, we have honest and honest people in our ranks, and they could probably make a good and honorable law. You had other honorable jobs that you could have done if you wanted to, which is to show the will of the citizens of Serbia and to illegally send a budget inspection to municipalities that have done so far. In particular, I ask you to do it for the Indji municipality, so I will ask you one question from this place. When you send a budget inspection to the Indji municipality, from 2000 to today, you will examine all operations from the Indji municipality budget, because by some budgets, around 2000 to today, about two billion are spinning, and that it is built into the Indji municipality of about 500-600 million, and for a billion and a half dinars, it is not known where it is. That would be more honorable and honest if you'd done it. You'd see where the money flowed, where it was going, and the citizens would benefit far more than you've ever done before. I would like to ask another question from this pay phone - that the Public Procurement Agency is also sent to the Indji municipality, because there were difficult things happening in the Indji municipality this summer, where some facilities were destroyed and jobs were given without public procurement. It is a concrete question for Mr Dinkic, and another to be forwarded to the Public Procurement Agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22692	Anybody else answer for a word? Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22693	Oh, my God, Mr. Dinkic, yesterday you surprised us with Al Qaeda, that she's guilty of missing information about our money. Now these business partners from abroad can understand that you're hiding that this country has funded Al-Qaeda and Bin Laden, and that it's our fault that those towers are down. You'd have to explain that somehow, because because of that statement you made yesterday, there was a break here. If you couldn't find any better reason, you should have said, look at the report of the Hague tribunal's expert, who asked for that money from Cyprus, found something, so blame the individual. It would be so much better for you and for us. This is how you put us in a very awkward situation. Come on, what's wrong with the Americans, it's our fault now, Al-Qaeda. But let me get back to your work permit. Again a bad translation that doesn't mean anything. Although in the first phase of the bank's establishment procedure somehow, after some time spent on corn outside the governor's office, you get a preliminary approval for the establishment of the bank, the second part follows. This second part is quite racquetical, because you have a deadline within which you have to apply for a work permit, and it's not just a work permit, it's a license to have a new legal person, because without that license, there's no legal person registration, no activity. Now it's looking for proof of the payment of the founding capital. To be ironic, it's required by the founders. When a similar thing is stated in Article 15, the founders are obliged to deposit a share of the underlying capital on the temporary account of the National Bank. Now interpret who wrote this. It's probably written with legs, not with hands. The highlight of all of this is what the last attitude says: "NBS can be closer to editing the content of the evidence." In any of the procedural laws in this country and on the globe, no one has gone so far in innovation to say what evidence must be contained. Since you don't know it, there's a difference between evidence and evidence, but even if we ignore it, no one can prescribe the content of the evidence. You're going to that, too. He says, "and the data from Section 2 of this article," again a new corn kneeling tour, in order for someone who meets the law of the prescribed conditions to have to worry about whether or not they will meet those who are not prescribed by law and are in the will of a governor of the NBS. I don't want to talk about the style of how this is written, I don't want to give you other details, because there's a possibility of running a administrative dispute and for a preliminary approval for the establishment and for the sake of a work permit, but I just want to confirm, potential, enhance what we've been saying for hours. This is a law that would be much more effective if you had two to three members in which clearly, as you say, it is transparent that everything depends on Jelasic. It's the highlight of this democracy you brought us, it's the highlight of respect for human rights, it's the height of understanding of the market economy, it's the height of understanding of international banking and other standards, it's the height of your policy. It is clear to you that this policy leads in the sun, not only do you understand, but you are consciously doing so, you are looking for such a bill to exercise practical authority over the congregation's majority to rule this way on the banking market, that everything depends on your will. Here every member and every attitude can be commented and to determine where there are gaps. I note that we are on Article 18, which is the end of the second phase of the establishment of the bank. It's a phase where we don't even have a legal face yet, but the next member goes, so you'll see the G17 marching through the banking system.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22694	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. The speaker, Gordana Pop-Lazic, appears for the word. Here you go. Thank you. Dear colleague Krasic, the minister doesn't listen to you in the O.R., and not just you, but not any other speaker. He obviously thinks he's the only one who knows what he's doing, and he doesn't really know what he's doing, but that's why we're here to point out his mistakes, and there's those who understand banking a lot more than he does, because I don't know that he's something, except what he volunteered at the National Bank and played governor, he had anything to do with the banks. This article 18, ladies and gentlemen, is absolutely unacceptable for a number of reasons. First, the proposal stipulates that the National Bank of Serbia's solutions are final and that no appeal can be filed against them, which puts the National Bank of Serbia outside Serbia's entire legal system. We ask the question: is it even sustainable and is it possible? It is not good that the proposal is not fully in line with other system laws, such as the Business Society Act, the General Administrative Procedure Act, the evidence of this is this last position, and neither is the Constitution of Serbia. Here's a job for the Constitutional Court, if there is one. According to us, it is not good that the National Bank of Serbia maintained so much discretionary rights. If this law is passed, indeed, it will either have to be changed very quickly or the Constitutional Court will have to act on this matter. It is clear to us that, in part, the decisions taken here by the banking laws and by Slovenia and Croatia are in line with the principles of corporate governance of the OECD, as well as EU directives. The aim is obviously to harmonise with EU banking laws, but there has been a considerable expansion of the authority of the National Bank, primarily in the control of banks, but also in this part of the work permits and preliminary conditions for work permits. We'll see later what kind of problems these foreign banks will have with terms. They speak Serbian, and once a month a meeting has to be in Serbia, not to be on the side and I don't know what, linguistic conditions of different dimensions. What cannot possibly be accepted is the situation that someone can make a solution, and that someone to whom the solution applies cannot complain. Only God's father has the right to absolute justice and no one else. I can't believe that this is past the Legislative Secretariat and that no one has drawn attention to this fact to the Government of Serbia or to the Minister, but if they don't, if they don't notice this, if they vote on all this, if this law is passed, we're going to have to ask the Constitutional Court to respond, but we sincerely hope that they will respond and will not act like many times now, that many submissions and requests for a review of the constitutionality of certain provisions are being knocked out somewhere in some drawer. We know that institutions do not function, but is it possible that only the National Bank and Mr Dinkic can function in this country in the way that they want and only on the basis of their own will. All bankers, domestic or foreign, in this country, complain of this will and the excessive discretion of the National Bank, governor and Minister Dinkic. If they all say so, I guess we have no reason to doubt it. There's evidence in this law as much as you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22696	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. The government has not accepted this amendment. The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22697	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Duvnjak has submitted an amendment to Article 19, and he proposes that this article be deleted, or that this founding assembly is not actually organized. The founding assembly under Article 19 should be based on the principles of the minister. Are these founders of yours that you suggest and respect and whether that statute will be so your dinkin, whether consent will give you your smallness within five days, but there is a problem that those faces must be at the will of your principles. You've already shown it, proven it in your professional and political performances. I remember you when you were carrying those bags called bags and today we see you with the same bags you're carrying. They probably associate with something, and that's what our people know about using the saying "bag bag." Imagine your knowledge of the rules, when you forced yourself into banks and maltenes to slap people into taking over the powers and duties of these banks. Your knowledge at that time, and even now cannot be measured either by this bill or by this Article 19 we're talking about. So these founders, who can't be connected to Al-Qaeda, so you said, and your statements are ridiculous. You said that money from Cyprus was deployed to 52 countries and that you discovered the ways of that money, but the money is gone, so you better propose it to the UN tribunal faster so that he finds that strange money. We've seen Dinkic behave, both in article 9 of this law and only him. What a court or an independent judiciary, again just Dinkic and no one else. Serbia's constitution is not respected by this member. He's a constitution, he's a governor, he's a minister, he solves, he sets and replaces, he's everything for now, but only briefly - maybe until Monday. You say this is a new law that complies with OECD principles, and these principles are as important to you as this law. Well, you've already finished this law the moment you shut down all our banks and sent out a large number of bank workers on the street. Apparently, you hired them in some other banks, or institutions. That's not true. You have reorganised all these banks as if it were your private front, and thus you have shown that you are not up to it, and that is also what the political developments in Serbia and beyond show for these tasks. You boast that there are now two billion and 80m euros in our banks as savings for citizens. It's just a marketing story and that story isn't real with the standard of our citizens. You know that our citizens raise their loans, from agriculture to pensioners, just to survive, to buy a winter, to warm up over winter, and peasants to sow that grain of wheat, which you don't appreciate, you don't respect that product with any comment. You're also boasting about credit activity. It is easy now to raise this martyrly loan that is not in line with European norms. There's interest far, far more appropriate than in our terms. But you, in order to bridge this economic downturn, have offered citizens to consume these credit funds and boast that these loans amount to 479 billion dinars. You tell us, Mr. Minister, which will make Serbian citizens pay, pay and pay back 479 billion dinars, we call these to our banks, when no one is working and has the opportunity to provide life's existence with their work. Are you going to pass the mortgage law afterwards and that the state is going to start selling that pain that's being set up to survive by the next day or the next year? You say the reform started in 2001 and will end in 2006. I mean that bank reform. Neither you as a reformer nor the citizens were able to influence this reform action, but you only carried out the tasks and obligations that you received from that International Monetary Fund, and their goal is to find someone like you and to boast that you are an expert and that you are going to get this country out of the abyss. Now you've got a few more banks to sell and mention between the rest and the Vojvodjanska Banka. And she's now on transfer, or in a tender, and it's supposed to be sold to that bank. Of course, there are now all the banks you mentioned here, I mean France, I mean Italy, Greece, Hungary and Poland. You said there were 11 banks in the competition. Will the tender highlight the interest of Serbian citizens? Not to be the priority interest of these banks involved in the tender. As far as this Commercial Bank is concerned, we've been following this through information funds, how you magically ripped it out, and how you, as a real trader, did that transaction. And now you are proud that it is worth 400m euros and that it can serve in some future period and as a regional bank, and that it will not be sold, but that it can only be capitalised. You'll probably hire your closest friends and relatives in that bank. You won't, as you said, sell this post office either. She's not going to privatize. Well, she's probably unprepared for that privatisation at the moment, and the willingness to look at it is that there's not enough capital to be built into those traders of yours. You pointed out that you would tighten bank control, and all in order to ban the breach of competition. So how are you going to exercise that control, that is, how you will enforce that ban on harming competition when in Serbia no one can soon open a new bank according to your criteria and principles. We heard it in previous comments, Mr Krasic commented on it in a quality way. You also mention a business secret, and you want everything to be transparent for you. So you commented in the previous period all those words that we are commenting on today.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22698	MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22699	If any member of this bill makes it clear why this law should not be adopted, it is clear in Article 19. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, article 19 says - the founding assembly of the bank is being held after the People's Bank's Decision on the granting of a bank's work permit. When will the founding assembly be held rather than after the solution, after the bank's permit? Something like this in law is completely unnecessary. Furthermore, the founding assembly is made up of the founders of the bank. Who could form a founding congregation other than the founders? I don't see any logic, unless it's mistranslated, then it can be an excuse or miswritten. The founders of the bank's right to vote in the founding assembly achieve the relative height of their role. Of course, this has been resolved by many other legal projects, especially this second part, which says - two-thirds of the founders' votes in the founding assembly, adopts the statutes, elects the president and members of the bank's board of directors and executives. It's the Company Act, the Action Society Act, and many other laws are regulated. The next part says they're adopting a three-year activity program. Now we come up with information that no one is alive, nor is Mladjan Dinkic clear. Why three years? Why not a year? Why not five years if we want to look at the bank's development in the long run? What is it that has defined the legislator to say three years and six months or two years and six months? Unbelievable. The last part says -- the founders of the bank are obliged, and now we come to what MP Zoran Krasic has been saying all along, that acts adopted at the founding assembly of delivery to the consent of the NBS within five days. Then they will receive consent if, as MP Krasic said, kneels on that corn or if they open their wallet with the governor of the National Bank. The same governor who received the citizenship of this country two days after his arrival in the country and took a job at the state institution, then became a citizen of this country. The same governor who bought the same villa for 380,000 euros. The same governor who literally came in a chubby car with an old suit, and now the trains can't pull his property. How do you think he got it? It is precisely when the Governor of the National Bank is engaged in giving such and similar solutions, beliefs, certificates, consent, etc. The NBS shall decide to give its consent under Article 5 within 60 days. Just enough to negotiate the amount of financial resources needed to give consent. Maybe some bankers won't be so happy to agree to give away what is otherwise not given anywhere in the world, and here they will have to. It's only two months until they agree, and if you want a bank, it costs so much. The minister isn't here, and even when he's here, he's reading the paper. I thought he was reading the paper, and then I passed through and I saw his big picture. So I'll ask the Minister a parliamentary question and I'll be answered in writing. Where are the 4.5 billion dollars found in Cyprus first, Batic, Velja Ilic, and Mihajlovic? That money remained in Cyprus. They were found by the current minister, it seems to me he was the governor when he found them, the finder governor. They are still missing in Cyprus, so I ask where they are now, because they are the money of this country, these citizens, these citizens of Serbia, and will they ever return to the state's payment turnover and in what form?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22700	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Dunjic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22701	Article 20 has the title - Registration, and in paragraph 3 is just what the proposaler's idea was: "The bank acquires the property of a legal person at the time of enrolment in the register of economic operators. "From the idea of founders to this day when they get the conditions to file a registration application, if the deadlines from Articles 15 to 20 are followed, you will see, the first deadline is 60 days, or 90, or 60, or 30, or 30, or 5, and 60 days, and that is 200 and a few days to be implemented, and I apologize, I have to compare that parallel to corn, until a copy of the register is made that the bank is registered and that the bank can start to deal with banking affairs. Everyone who thinks it's so complicated and needs to be examined, finds out, that there's reliable evidence, that there's a business space, that the technical bank is equipped to record payment traffic, for all the other things they're following, I have to say that these conditions didn't exist for any of these banks that are present on the market today. They just came and took some money and bought a market and laundered money from abroad here. For your information, because these people at the National Bank don't know. You now have advisers from England, Germany, France, Switzerland, who pay 10,000 euros a month and a business lunch a day of 100 euros, if someone else pays him, of course, because they don't spend money here, so they act the same way as KFOR members in Kosovo and Metohija. They have big salaries, they don't care what happens, just so they can take their big receipts and flee abroad. There are people who have absolutely no idea about banks. Each of our counter-office officers at the bank can be a science doctor for these experts who came, and especially those from Switzerland, they're ordinary woodcutters, they don't have any people, because it's a big laundry room, in which our experts, young, nice, makeupd, all fits in, modern yapia. In Serbia, no one likes yuppies, just so you know, like those who were looking at something at first and saying, "Let it go, he doesn't have a house, he doesn't have a house, he doesn't have anything, he just looks for himself to have a good time and to ask himself about something." Registration means, with the act of registration, a legal person becomes someone who has been struggling for 220 days to reach that goal. It's probably 200 and something's gonna have to go by while the experts drag it out, shake it out, destroy it, destroy it completely. It's not funny, you know, there's a few proceedings before our courts about the behavior of Governor NB. However, there is a time when they cheat, and they strike into a strong foreign investment group that is the founder of a bank, they hit some national lobbyes, and then they can have very harmful consequences throughout the country. I'm not going to turn out to be an ad for a bank right now, and we've pointed out earlier what banks are talking about and how unprincipled behavior was the governor of the National Bank, because it's the one holding both the cake and the night and it's all over. It's not democracy. It's not respect for human rights, it's not legal security. We are being promoted here that it is the only right path towards Euro-Atlantic integration. Please, such behaviour in one of the EU countries would be sanctioned. They've long been banned, unacceptable, so no civil servant can even think about acting like one. I'm a little confused, if those in Europe think these are their teams, then don't be surprised that 99% of Serbian citizens don't want to go to such a Europe. He doesn't want to, because these values and these liquids of Europe, when they promote here with us, you know it's just a cartoon. Look what you're saying here. It says the application provides a solution to the National Bank of Serbia's permission to operate the bank and to agree on the position. Now, what a bet. It's not clear. You don't even know what it's about. Now let me make a little connection with this previous member, which is Article 19. You see, this NBS gives consent to acts adopted in the founding assembly, and in the founding assembly, practically, it becomes a legal person. Although the National Bank had all the drafts and blueprints of these acts before it even considered preliminary approval for the establishment of the bank. You shouldn't be so complicated about this procedure. I want to remind you, a few months ago, when you passed a law on registers of companies or what it's called, so when a business of registration was kidnapped by commercial courts and transferred to a special Agency for Economic Registers, it was said to suffer great criticism because someone from that developed West thinks there's too much time to register and that this should be speeded up. I just counted these deadlines for you: 230 days it takes to start a bank. In banks, the principle that applies to companies does not apply, and they will come out again and say they stand on the European trail, it accepts Europe, it is so in Europe. It's not like that. If that were the case and it were to be so monopolised, as it is monopolies here, it would be a disaster and that Western Europe would be destroyed in two days. In our time of transition justice, which has nothing to do with truth and justice as a universal category, you are transitionally interpreting it as revolutionary justice, allowing these things to be harassed by some text that is clear to everyone that nothing is wrong. It is absolutely clear to everyone that new monopolies are being created here, or they are protecting existing monopolies. They're all acting like democracy. All of them now have to go to the polls and whether it's 126 or not 126. The President of the Assembly has a list to make and to say, this year we've been working and we've passed so many laws, and then you go to the Supreme Court and you ask: well, how it stands; says, as it stands, no law is applied. There isn't. Those who work in courts they don't even know that there's a new law of litigation, a law of litigation, they don't know, they still apply the old law. Those who register and register, same problems as some trade courts, especially in Belgrade and others in the interior, where Pera and Djok come and say -- we are authorized to represent the firm, file a report, end up with a judge, and he enlists them and street workers strike and demonstrate and chase the president of the trade court. You have the same thing with this agency. A group of people came in and registered themselves as the head of the cooperative, although there's no organs, and they went in there and it can't change, and everybody knows it's not like that. What is the effect that we have adopted a new, European, reform law, and to use something else to describe, in practice zero, minus. Here, so is this. It's something that if new banks are to be formed, they need to be made so inaccessible, and if they don't cooperate with the governor, with the finance minister, with that vice president who's resting and with the group G17 plus, of course not these people who are here in the Assembly, because neither Minister nor Labus are asking them what they should or should be. They just hit the seal -- the European Community and the IMF said this could, or this is their request, or this is their text. There's no alternative, you know what's famous. Of course, we're going to warn you about every member, that we're going to point out that those bankers who are currently responding to what they are in good relations with the governor, so they can't scream sometimes because they're being disturbed by the law, and we're warning them that it's dangerous to be close to these people and that it's extremely dangerous and very high risk if these people are being called to reception. People remember, and when a bank celebrates the anniversary of its existence, so call the minister, the governor, they remember people, because they know that as soon as the minister goes to someone, he's in a good relationship with the minister. This one never goes for nothing. He forgot his bag today. Two days he was bringing a bag here, the second day he showed us that there were bill proposals in that bag, apparently. Watch out, now she's become a bag man. On Monday, you will discuss the anti-corruption decision, the anti-corruption strategy, and make sure you are consistent on Monday and today. Don't split like a person. You're okay with this today, and it's nice, and on Monday you'll be attacking, so you'll forget that you were at the National Assembly Hall on Wednesday and Thursday. So, when registration is provided, then a very big job of a complicated bank creation process in Serbia has been completed, and immediately all those who are thinking about starting some banking business to recommend, seek out a stranger immediately if you want to start, because these are afraid of foreigners. It's enough that he's called Mike and he also has an incomprehensible last name, these guys get shaken up when they see them, because they're afraid of being reported to Michael Polt, or by an IMF representative, or by the United Nations, so that he doesn't urinate, and if he urinates, then the law doesn't apply to them. So, you who want to breathe a little bit more normally, are looking for a foreign partner or a larger number of them to provide 98% of the base capital abroad, even if 1% - 2% of this Serbian one, you won't spend 230 days alone, you'll have a lot less to deal with, but as soon as you go into the process of starting a bank and thinking about it, be sure that Labus, Dinkic and Jelasic will offer you first -- bro, if you have money, if you're willing to buy a bank, we have a bank to sell. So, to sell out this little bank we have. It is the policy of this triumphate, which falsely hides behind the supposed standards of a Europe that only exists with them. To send Mladjan Dinkic and Jelasic on the study path, to carry out their innovations on us in Germany, and how many days do you think their stay in Germany would last - 15 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22702	Members of the 21st Amendment were submitted by MP Milomir Dunjic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Alexander Djordjevic submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22703	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 22. A bill on banks, where I ask that Article 22 be deleted. In an explanation, just like the previous member, first of all, "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should not be a voting machine G17 plus the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The proposed law on banks should undermine all abuses of Mladjan Dinkic and his friends, so it was delivered to the MPs just before the start of the debate so that they could not study the law through the debate in the Assembly to inform the public of the intentions of Mladjan Dinkic. "So, this bill on banks, as my colleagues in the SRS said, is one in a series of draft laws submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly, which is primarily inadmissible in practice, contrary to the highest legislative act i.e. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. As my colleague Gordana Pop-Lazic said, based on article 18. The bill clearly shows that the constitutionality of this bill, submitted by the government to the National Assembly, should be sought. The SRS will have to seek an assessment of the constitutionality of this bill, as one informal group here cannot carry out a terror against the citizens of Serbia and the National Assembly, to pass laws that are, above all, executed by the citizens of Serbia and the state. The fact is that the way I wanted to combine the point of discussion at this session, that as soon as I formally discuss these drafts of the law, and I mean first of all the law on the prevention of money laundering, the law on public enterprises, and the law on banks, speak of which and what way you want to pass laws in this National Assembly that will not be, as counterpart Krasic said in the previous presentation, applicable in practice. The fact is, of course, you can say that in the last year in this National Assembly you voted over a few dozen bill proposals, and the question is which of these laws are applicable in practice. The essence of the SRS' stance is that this law should be withdrawn from the assembly procedure. That's the SRS' position on the bill of banks. So when we talk about our perilousness and what G17 Plus is doing, as part of the ruling coalition, by the state and the citizens of Serbia... Can I explain? Simply and simply, all the laws you have passed in this National Assembly have been brought only to the detriment of the citizens of Serbia and to the harm of the state of the Republic of Serbia, thus doing damage and execution, which will leave unseen consequences. The SRS hopes that the multi-party parliamentary elections will be announced very quickly and that in these elections you will go to a political dump and in history as a political group that has brought to this National Assembly a series of draft laws that have a devastating fact on the state and on citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22704	The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22705	Dear colleagues, it is up to the public to read Article 22, which says the minimum amount of capital for the establishment of the bank: "The bank is obliged to ensure in its business that the capital of the bank is always at a level that is not less than the dinar equivalent of 10m euros (and I only commend them for writing the euro because they always write the euro) according to the official middle rate." We ask the question: why is capital constantly being converted into dinars? Here's why we ask. The first thing we don't know is that it exists in the world anywhere. If the founding capital was $5m or 1.5m in Russia, it remained that long, in Romania, Bulgaria, any country of the European Union, and it did not change. So, you pay five million dollars once, say, and you get a license and you work. That's the way it is in Greece and today, and also in Germany. No one ever recalculates daily, say, in Russia laundry or in Bulgaria left, etc. Why isn't he recalculating? So, everywhere in the world, and also in the European Union, until this monetary integration and the appearance of the euro, it was. This means that if someone once paid 100 million marks, let's say in 1994 in foreign currency, that's 100 million dinars, because then there was a single dinar mark, today as a founding capital, it has 1.25m euros, i.e. 2.5 million marks. How much did he lose? He lost 97.50% of his capital. The question arises who will invest in Serbia on an annual inflation rate of 20%, because we all know it is so hidden or hidden. I'm asking these ministry officials to at least be calm when they're in the O.R. because I'm going to ask the President of the Assembly, sir, to get you kicked out of the O.R. so I can do my job. (Goran Angelic: Your MPs asked me. You have no right to speak to anyone here in the O.R. If the chairman was doing his job, you'd be silent. The question arises, when the NBS erases 15 to 20% of its paid capital each year, how much profit does a bank have to make to save the capital? Furthermore, 30% before paying the profit tax - we think it's impossible, and that means not even preserving capital. The NBS printing money, we all know it works, it creates inflation, and on the other hand it forces the bank's founders to pay for new additional capital, to preserve the level of capital in the bank. This is reportedly going to last until some time in 2014, when we are supposed to join the European Union and introduce the euro. All this is directly and economically and legally unsustainable and deters any serious investor. It's impossible to accept the situation that every six months counts on what your founding role is. If you once gave 1.5 million dollars, it's $1.5 million, it's a founding bet, not to be sent every six months to a bank of someone who's going to tell you he's devalued, devalued, and you need to invest some new money all the time and you're losing your invested capital. Then who's crazy in this country, are those who need to bring in some money to invest or are we crazy? I really don't know what this is about, but I'd like Minister Dinkic to point a finger to one of the only states where this kind of pressure is being put on bankers and where these conditions are being sought. How is it possible that those billions or millions you once invested, you got some founding capital, it's worth this much today, it's worth as much the day after tomorrow, and they keep making you keep adding? It's absolutely unsustainable, I don't understand it, and it seems unacceptable for the banking system at all. If the goal is to bring down what's left, then that's probably how it's supposed to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22706	Thank you. The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22707	Ladies and gentlemen, there is something unclear here in this Article 22, which speaks about the capital of the bank, or the minimum amount of capital that the bank must own during its business. In fact, there is one illogicality that is related to Article 12, where the founding capital of the bank is spoken of. Article 12 states that the bank's founding capital, which can be in monetary and non-money form, must be a monetary part of that capital of at least 10m euros. So in order for someone to start a bank, they must have 10m euros in cash, to deposit that deposit, in addition to all the other material assets and goods they must have, which are beyond that amount. In order for the bank to move forward, it is important that at any moment its total capital, if I understand that correctly, be 10m euros in dinar equivalent. I do not understand why it is not a condition for the bank to have a 10m-euro share of capital in its business as well, but is now estimated. So every day it's estimated what the bank's capital is in business space, facilities, material assets and whether it's worth 10m euros or not. If the bank owns business premises in various cities in Serbia, the value of this space is reduced daily. Apart from Belgrade, business space in all other places in Serbia is becoming cheaper from day to day, so it's worth less and less. How will someone and who will evaluate it every day whether that business space in Baja Basta, Babusnica, or not know where, is worth as much as it was shown at some point earlier? I don't think this is a good solution, and I think that for the safety of those who deposit funds and who work with the bank, the bank should have 10m euros in cash in deposit, meaning that there is a cash amount of 10m euros, outside of what is in the business space, material assets, depositors must be provided with a cash amount that should be at least 10 million if this is a condition for the establishment of the bank, that it is also in the course of the bank's business, and not to change that later.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22708	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22709	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this Article 22 makes it clear that it is not at all the proposal to create institutional conditions in Serbia to establish a new bank. I spoke to some domestic bankers today. These are not those who are engaged in these Dinkic and Jelasic foreign banks, especially this very close organisation, or party whose member is Mladjan Dinkic. People made it clear, and that's what I was talking about in the afternoon. So, 10m euros, which were spoken of by Mrs Pop-Lazic and Mr Zlatan Jovanovic, in dinar equivalent; it is amazing that the equivalent is thus sought, which is a clear picture of this case of capital in dinars from 1994 and 2005. Calculate what you could do with 7,000 dinars, it was an unimaginable figure in 2000, and what can you do with that amount today, in addition to the massive purchases, inflation that is far from the one projected by the governor or the NBS? This is just legalizing business. The whole law and everything we're saying to the end, and when it comes to liquidity risks, it means the founding stakes, the permits, all of it, is that it's supposed to legalize the entry of the capital of these powerful banks, which are also behind powerful financial corporations, and which have been given the opportunity to keep their own, above all, monopolys, because now some of them stand out as much stronger than these others, hold jobs primarily with the population sector. It is amazing that you expect these remaining Serbian banks to have both liquidity levels and this constant amount of deposits to hold 10m euros, when they have no opportunity to operate with neither the economy nor the population. I told you today that people grab their heads, they can't wait to get privatized. It's impossible. From the day of adoption of this law, their business will be completely difficult. After all, today Mladjan Dinkic himself told us that in the future projection of Serbian banking, what will remain after the closing down of five national banks by his unilateral act, he sees the Commercial Bank, of course, after the management changed overnight and made it bring similar and obedient people to him, he sees the Commercial Bank as a partner and in another, he said, to the former Yugoslav republics and abroad. It's impossible that any other bank, which is the bank of some regional character or bank that still has our name and which as such exists and survives, has its own capital, has its own buildings, has its own exposures, has its own space, survives. This is just for these, and for them it's a little something. (President: Time.) I'm done. Here are just a few examples, and I don't want to make an extra ad to these powerful banks today in Serbia, because so much they can pay for information shows like the National Log to be interrupted so they can publish their commercials and calls for supercash loans. But this is nothing to them or anything. Tenm euros in dinar equivalent, they've already finished their job, they've got permits, they've got business spheres, they've made excellent arrangements, of course, all with amen and with blessings both Dinkic and Jelasic, and with certain counterservices. Do you think that Radovan Jelasic, whom Momir Markovic said he was walking with one bag and a bow in that one suit, could have, had he not given all these banks the opportunity to come to our market, to buy a villa on Dedinj? It's illusory that anyone thinks that a governor, someone who's done the jobs he's done before, makes so much money with so many years that he can move into a villa on Santa. So it's all so obvious and people know it. They also know those who carry executive functions in these banks. They're mostly members of the G17. I'm saying again that I'm not gonna talk about the names of those banks and make them an extra commercial. It's a public secret, both here in Belgrade and in Kragujevac, Chačka, the King. The expansion of these exposures and these banks is everywhere in Serbia and each of you knows it. They bought the best business premises, took over some of those valuable banking personnel who had lost their jobs, but at a minimum, and hired mostly their party followers. And made room for them to do business safely and, in particular, from the citizens of Serbia, to collect huge interest and huge profits. They don't have a problem with these 10m euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22710	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Djordjevic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22711	We're in part of the law that regulates the bank's business, that's the first part, and that's the capital of the bank. Before I say anything about Article 23 concerning this amendment, where some new terms of "capital adequateness indicator" are used, etc., they are "in" you know, I have to go back to Article 22, which may have created some confusion. There is one problem from the time the Bank Act and the Company Act were passed in 1993. At the time, the National Bank of Yugoslavia had an obligation to prescribe some capital revaluation, but that was the time when these banks were mostly in social property, so it was done in some way until Mladjan Dinkic arrived, and when Dinkic came, it was not done and it was possible for banks to go under ice as soon as possible. These 10m euros as basic capital, I have to say that there is a difference in capital when establishing a monetary and non-financial part, but when a bank is set up, that is all capital, there is no need for it to be shared. However, if only this 10m-euro commitment is left, then we will come into a situation, as one of the major "Boskov" banks has been formed that shouts on the basis of interest, which is this Raiffeisen bank. It was formed with very suspicious capital, which came from Austria and Republika Srpska, or the MH Federation. That capital was only present at the moment of establishment. He came right back from where he came from. That's what these "experts" made possible. There's a report on that. That's your report, the NBS report. Many banks in the country, these domestic banks, immediately noticed what it was about. One part of that founding capital was the loan of a European bank, it seems to me to be called the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I think the total capital structure of 15m euros was across the European line, and 10 over this MH Federation. Unidentified to the end of the capital again. Is ours, is it a side, I don't know, I just know that a few days after getting permission to work, a good part of that founding capital has been returned. Now let's go to this provision that's supposed to mean maintaining the substance, maintaining the bank's capital, that the bank can always intervene and meet its obligations. That's why there's always a relationship between the bank's capital and the risk-based rankings. At times, these risk placements, i.e. the methodology of finding out if a plasma is risky, depended on the assets, more in terms of how a bank claim was provided to a borrower. Let me just remind you, she famous Karicev, this friend of Dinkic's, the bank, just got hurt because she took one picture of her having a lot of high-risk placements and that the bank can't meet some of the obligations that are coming, so she was given a warrant to reduce those risky rankings, that they are somehow consolidated. Here are used non-purpose loans, one villa, another villa, etc. When a cross-section was later made, it was seen that the bank had capital. I'm not taking this as a positive example for either side. Both sides are identical, watching who cheats. That's a bad example of what I'm trying to say. I want to say that today almost all banks learned from the period when our banks were motors of development, so they placed loans in everything and everything, in some, supposedly, development projects. They never had adequate means of payment security, so there were some savings, some banks. A classic example is AIK Bank Nis, which survived precisely because the first one started with a quality way of providing its claims. Today almost all banks have a very good policy on how to secure their claim. They're looking for a mortgage, if it's going to be licked, then there's a pawn's law, etc. The way the loan-based claims are secured has improved, so these risk-based clients who need to make a relationship with the capital and to see, that's the bonus, what the bank's condition is, does it meet the obligations, doesn't mean anything. Let me tell you right now, let's make it the best thing that's written here. There's probably good things here, with this new "in" terminology being used. There's only one small problem -- that the governor of the National Bank, by his decisions, which regulates the way banks operate and the placements of banks, can significantly affect the adequateness of this, as you call it, of an adequate capital indicator, to affect the adequateness of a bank's capital. It's enough to just 30 days in advance to say what's "in" to some banks, because in 30 days he's going to make a decision and save his capital and to properly focus on some rankings where there's going to be a much less risk of paying back the funds. It's just that this whole bill of law is full of arbitraryness and the will of an individual who thinks he's the emperor of the republic. Tsarevci in the republic. To tell you the truth, if these social banks of ours had done business on market principles, none of them would have had a dubiosis in their business. If you wanted to get them out of the crisis, given that since 1986 the demand for banks towards the economy has exceeded the value of the economy, those who have known about the problem for a little longer, so that you have then converted banks into the capital of these social enterprises, and then in the second phase that you privatised 124 banks that existed during that period, today you would have a place where to make more legal privatisation, both faster and more efficient, without firing. This if the bank's claim is converted to the bank's social enterprise into the bank's capital, regardless of the lack of capacity, because it doesn't know who the founders of the bank are, that twice someone can own himself, that's what we have today. Today, the state is twice the owner of NIS: once on the basis of NIS's state resources, and the second time that all state claims towards NIS have grown back into some property rights of the state on the same property. See, that's the IMF policy. Here are the elements and such policies. So Article 23, which describes with the new terms something that has long existed in banking, has always existed in banking, in the relationship between capital and risk placements. Today there are plasmas that are provided multiple times. Go to any bank, so as a normal physical person you're looking for a consumer loan, you'll see what they're looking for. You cut the commercials, easy cash and stuff, it's for getting people to go there to report, to sign up, because banks have money. One of them has over 100 million free funds in accounts every day. She's allowed to have so much free resources. Some banks are being forced, some of them are going down. Mangupluk ruled Serbia. Coffee politicians, and, uh, earrings and blowers.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22712	The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22713	Dear colleagues, after this exhaustive presentation of Mr Krasic, just for a very short time to refer to article 23 and give a concrete example again and what is really happening in practice. So, this member, which speaks of a capital ratio indicator, particularly in this position 3, where it says that the National Bank of Serbia can determine the ratio of capital to more than prescribed if, on the basis of the type and degree of risk and business activities of the Bank, it is found necessary for the sake of a stable and secure operation of the Bank, i.e. to meet its confidence obligations, and now it is said in the last position that these criteria are prescribed by the National Bank. Then it happens on the ground -- what, that some bank that is at the mercy of Mr Dinkic, and we know that there have been, on the basis of some of these and these prescribed criteria, is determined to have about 30m euros in capital. And someone else is prescribed that it's enough to have it under the census, which is also possible and what's going on. They'll never send her control, so be sure of it, as she doesn't, and some will keep her in control. This is what the law cannot allow to be everything in the hands of the National Bank and that it prescribes the criteria and that it controls, and that it can be more and lower, and that it assesses how it pleases it. If we didn't let her do that, what happened in the past wouldn't happen if today came out a list of these banks that allegedly aren't safe, they don't have a credit rating, and they start out of that bank, they go to the one where she puts it on the list again on the first, second, third, and so on. So, he directly manages and pulls the dyskines that which bank will advance, where the money will go from the businessmen or from the citizens of Serbia. It's inadmissible in any serious state, whoever is governor of the National Bank and whoever the minister is today is someone else, but it's impossible to achieve that fundamental justice. It's impossible, even if you're the most just, to convince the one you come to control that you're just, if he knows you're treating one of his competitors differently and another bank. So many indefinite floscules, the terms that we have in this law, this is just a list of good wishes, to pass supposedly some law, and in fact everything is left by sublegal acts, which are again passed by the National Bank. At least the government is doing something about it, but the National Bank - a state in the state. It is truly unacceptable, and I am surprised that at all, the banking system, as we think we are editing it, or as the government proposes, and agrees with this proposal by Minister Dinkic, who again does not believe that he has received any verification from anyone or from any institution in the world to do something like this, survives.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22714	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milomir Minić and Jovan Todorovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The word has been given by the People's MP Milomir Miniæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22715	The Honorable Presidency, respected fellow MPs, not only one, my colleague Todorovic and I have submitted five amendments and the government has rejected them. I'm sure it's the government's responsibility for what kind of law we're going to have. I don't have a great need to explain the amendments and I'm only going to talk about this, but we have a system law before us, with lasting consequences for our banking system. I especially report because I am deeply convinced, and I have spoken to many of our bankers and businessmen, that some legal solutions will have very negative consequences for the economy and for the domestic banks. And if the government doesn't accept some amendments, this law will have major problems with the Constitution and the Constitutional Court. So once again I suggest, I think it would be good, there are several members of the law that are so much contrary to the Constitution, do not provide legal certainty and equality of economic operators, and in particular do not provide the equality of our domestic banks to the sides, so I think there will be problems. Already, the governor of the National Bank, under the National Bank Act, has imperial authority. The adoption of this law extends the functioning of the governor of the National Bank, where there is indeed a high degree of subjectivity or a chance of subjectivity. One of the main characteristics of this law is that it will contain, that it could work at all, very many sublegal acts, which will not allow for its conventional application. When it comes to Article 23, I think fellow MPs have already pointed out this, the National Bank can further increase that level of capital adequateness according to subjective will. Although this level of risk has already been resolved in other members of this law, whose goal is to increase the control role of the National Bank when the bank comes into such a risky situation to remove the situation, which is the intention of the law. However, there are additional rights and powers given to the governor of the National Bank that it increases the degree of risk or equity adequateness. What's the consequence of that measure? Banks aren't even. If we want to develop a successful financial market, banks must be equal on condition. I don't think any of this law will lose that these two members, as we have suggested, are stripped of the third and fourth. Since I'm not going to explain the following amendments, just one sentence at a time, I think they're very important to the legitimacy of this law. In Article 96, when it is possible to acquire ownership of bank shares, foreigners are trusted on paper, and our legal entities are not trusted but the scale of similarity is prescribed to be fulfilled in order to acquire ownership of a bank, in part or in full. In response to the government, we have had good talks with representatives of the National Bank and with Minister Dinkic, but yet I present all the dangers I see safely after the adoption of this law, they claim that this law has no retroactive fact. I would like to warn you that during the period of adapting the business of banks and harmonising their business with this law, some operations are possible where this law will have a return fact and that it would be good to say in transitional provisions that all banks with those rights with which they are now staying and that new solutions must be adapted to the other norms of this law. The SPS needs a modern banking system. Foreign banks are welcome. But financial experts warn, when Vojvodjanska Banka is sold, we sold 90% of Serbia's financial market. I don't believe in an economy that can only be successful with foreign banks. Today, when you talk to bankers who run domestic banks, they say it's the easiest thing to sell, it's very hard to keep it because of the law on the National Bank where organisations are classified. It is no question that our banks are trained to operate and comply with all the standards on that road to the EU, but it is very dangerous if we remain without domestic banks. Under the new constitution, when Serbia's decentralisation occurs, when Serbia will need small banks, regional banks, if we cancel this little bit of domestic capital left, I don't think it's good for the economy. I think that the government has a chance that some of these amendments, there are good solutions, which ensure that volunteerism is eliminated, that legal certainty is increased and that legal entities, domestic and foreign entities are equalised, accepted, so that this law is not found before the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22716	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tihomir Đuricic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22717	Here, ladies and gentlemen, another member who could be left out of this and out of any other legal project. It explains to us what is the bank's risky assets, so it says that it is a sum of book value positions of the balance sheet assets and off-balance sheet items multiplied by credit and market risk weights and other risks. It was clear to us without this explanation, however, that this second attitude of this member points to what the MPs of the SRS are always talking about. The risk weights referred to in Article 1(1) shall be prescribed by the NBS according to the risk of the positions that constitute the risk of bank activity. So, NBS, read the governor of the NBS, read Jelasic, read the same thing that bought for 380,000 euros that villa on Dedinj, read the same one that has a hectare of grass that cuts around that villa, and read the tax evasion, because the tax on purchase of that villa did not pay the state of Serbia, and the minister does not prosecute it for tax, and if he does not pass a VAT bill for a pack of cigarettes on the kiosk will be closed for a month, so I expect the minister to close the governor for at least two months. The same governor will decide on the weights and how risky the assets of a particular bank are, so some banks will be less risky, some more, depending on how much they pay the governor, read not only to the governor because he has to split it into different bags, it doesn't just stay in one bag. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why this amendment should be accepted and this article deleted, as well as amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3 and to the last member. When I came out, to ask the Minister of Finance a parliamentary question, why here's five years since the Bulldozer of the Revolution passed, and ever since all the domestic banks, four banks, are talking about four banks, and many banks have then paid with their heads, but even though those four banks literally choked all the time, there's one bank that's still under bankruptcy and at the moment when the bankruptcy would be lifted, it could pay back all the debts and from what's left, that kind of capital it has, it can operate and be one of the best, if not the best domestic bank. It's Beoban. I'm asking the governor: why don't you take the bankruptcy off that bank and why can't that bank work?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22718	The word has the People's MP Milan Škrbić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22719	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we talk about bank business and placement, whether they're risky or not, I'm going to try to explain to you on the best of occasions and compare some of the times not so long ago and these times today where, in fact, there's no risk when it comes to banks. In 2000. The Vojvodjanska Banka gave loans to the economy, specifically to the company where I worked, which is the Shipyard in Apatin, which had an export programme of five ships to the Norwegian market, so exports were 100%. First of all, we were forced by the President of the Management Board of the Shipyard to be a man of one of the directors of the Vojvodjanska Banka branch, who, of course, worked for the Vojvodjanska Banka, not for the company in which he was chairman of the Management Board. We were getting these loans, because that's the only way we could make and we did and we handed over four ships for five years to the Norwegian market, which were worth over 100 million marks then. We got loans from that bank per interest per month and up to 15%, and then that same bank conditioned us to have to buy all the re-promaterials through their newly opened companies within the Vojvodjanska banka, and that was Wobbing, and Wobbturs, and Vobbingering and various companies, all the re-materials we had to buy through these trading houses at Vojvodjanska Banka, we were conditioned, at even 30% higher prices than we could find on the free market. There's even more of us, let's say, buried. That debt of ours to the Vojvodjanska Banka grew from day to day, the bankers were good mathematicians and they were pedantically calculating it, and at the time of that embargo we were under glass bell and at the time of the bombing, when we complained whether it was possible for those interests to be reduced, they didn't want to talk to us. What happens next? The interest debt grew to 25 million marks, a complete one ship with unreal interest, the Vojvodjanska Banka took its own. There was an accelerated privatisation of shipbuilding, we were one of the first. A team of shipbuilding experts in which I was in, and we were doing an assessment of the value of the shipyard's capital, gave an estimate of 44.5m euros, now I'm going to talk in euros, so after we hired a Belgrade expert team, who worked independently of us, we differed in 5%. The shipyard was sold for 300,000 euros. Do you know who? Military Lazarevic, with Vojin Lazarevic taking over those 25 million marks, 30 million dinars on various grounds, suppliers, and, of course, an investment programme and everything else that was on the contract. Of course, for three years, Vojin Lazarevic has failed to fulfil any contractual obligations, has not even unblocked the account, and are working, has fired 300 workers, has failed to settle obligations, has not invested. What happened? Now we're coming up with that scheme of government, state, banks and these new tycoons and bosses. Vojvodjanska banka, a state or this government has written off, imagine, Vojina Lazarevica 12.5 million marks, we speak in stamps, and those other 25 who took the obligation to buy, were given to him for 30 years, with a grace period of five years. That's terrible. That's true. I'd like someone from the ministry to deny me, to check that information, I believe they won't, because we're telling this story longer and on the Privatisation Committee, and there's no power to kill me in my presentation. I just wanted to try and explain how banks must place their money. Of course, banks place their money and will not risk it, just as these foreign banks are now brought here, where owners or co-owners pay by majority, and are willing to pay more when buying these banks out of real value, because they know that in a year they will make extra profit here in Serbia. That's true. Just one example, and it's about the bank's business in this Article 24, and what my colleague Tihomir Đuricic has submitted. For now, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22720	Anyone else want a word? (No) Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. The government has not accepted this amendment. The word has the People's MP Dragan Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22721	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 25 of this Law, where in Chapter Three, the Bank's Business, Section One, several points are being passed and members of this law relating to the business of banks. It can be concluded that in all members, as well as in Article 25, the NBS puts itself as the main coordinator in the business of all banks. In Article 25 itself, in the distribution of profits, this most expresses the desire of the NBS to be the main organizer and to distribute the profits at the banks. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I come from the Vienna municipality, where the concentration of banks, both foreign and domestic, is in expansion and growth, in a municipality of 15-20 banks has opened up its expositories, which it cannot bear and there is no place to place its capital or plasma assets or to harvest from the economy, which has been destroyed in the Vienna municipality. The main accent of all banks is now in the Vienna municipality of citizenship. Since many budgets and in most cases the citizens of our Republic of Serbia are at risk, and of course they need citizens to borrow, by offering themselves very tempting loans, which are of interest to citizens, because there is no family in the Republic of Serbia that does not need any technical matter, or to raise a loan to renovate an apartment, or to build a house, or to raise a loan to enroll children for further schooling, etc., or for God's treatment. Therefore, these are the conditions where banks offer loans and under these conditions citizens become prisoners of banks, not to mention an economy or a small economy, where when a businessman shows up at a bank to get such credit to improve his business becomes a prisoner of the bank, where he has to make three times the amount of guarantee to the bank and to find three or two creditors who will guarantee the return of his credit and he automatically becomes a prisoner of banks, where interest is reached at an annual level of over 20%. Through different forms. How? When he receives a loan, a certain shop or an independent craftsman, or a small or medium-sized company has to charge, pay a loan fee, and later banks count price growth at a little monthly level, and this reaches a large percentage of interest on an annual basis. I think that the power that the Minister and the Ministry and the NBS want to show over the banks, I think that they should show their power to the other side, to reduce interest, or to give more favourable loans to citizens, businesses. Then would show real power and real thinking of this ministry, and real thinking of NBS and banks that want to make their income. I believe that the banks that are currently working and living in our country are green banks, for the very reason I gave these loans and loans to short-term citizens who are offered, simply become prisoners of banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22722	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22723	This is a member who regulates the distribution of profits. Please remember that in Article 13, in the founding act, there was then a second situation, it was mandatory to prescribe a way of covering losses, and there was nothing to talk about profit. Since they could not agree and were not given the right to the founders of the bank and the owners of the bank's shares to agree on the distribution of profits, then, of course, the law is applied. What did they prescribe in Article 25? It is normal that, when the result of the business year is determined at the end of the business year, the profit is determined, as all those legal obligations are settled, certain reserves, strengthening reserves, what remains is profit. Shareholders have the right to dividend in proportion to their capital in that bank, and employees have the right to participate in the distribution of profits, as the result of their engagement as bank employees is obvious, as well as in any company. Here there are limits to the distribution of profits, but all these restrictions are almost not valid, but what is written in the last attitude applies. The last attitude is really interesting, he's in contradiction with everything that's written in front of him. You see, here's a restriction that the recorded profit, the existing profit bank can't share. First situation; if its liquidity is not maintained in accordance with the NBS regulations. If the bank does not maintain its liquidity in accordance with the NBS rules, it shall be subject to sanctions. How can he win by breaking the law? You admit to someone who broke the rules that he made a profit, and before that, you had to take a series of actions against who didn't keep his liquidity. Second situation; if due to this distribution, the bank could not maintain its liquidity in accordance with the NBS regulations. This is the situation if the distribution of dividends and the participation of employees in profits endangers future liquidity after distribution. That means they can't distribute more than the law says. You limit them to participation, distribution, and dividends in general. Third situation; if the bank has not addressed the weaknesses and shortcomings imposed by the NBS in relation to incorrect showing of business changes and other events, which may affect the bank's success balance. Excuse me, please, this is a situation where sanctions are taken against the bank. This is how you admit that instead of getting sanctions, the bank has achieved success in business. I don't know, it's like he was building someone with some kind of interest. Fourth, she failed to comply with the warrants for the removal of irregularities. If the bank has failed to comply with the irregularity warrants, more rigorous measures will follow, and a work permit shall be withdrawn at the final stage. You're going over it now and you're saying it, but the bank made a profit. You can't share a profit. If you don't share the profits, then it invests in the capital of the bank. You make it possible for the bank to increase its capital from illegal traffic, I don't know who could have written this. Yesterday we were talking about a law to prevent money laundering, and you have money laundering here in the law. Now there's a difference in money laundering that's not in the law, everyone needs to prosecute and launder money that's legal. Here, this is a legal money laundering. You can't go to jail for this, just because the Emperor wrote it. I don't know what you're doing, who's writing you these laws, where you're looking at this, like you're reading some mob rules and you're getting into our laws. Fifth situation; NBS determines this by its corrective measure. So it's possible the bank was legally doing business, making a profit. None of these four reasons exist, but someone at the National Bank, again this Jelassiti, concluded that it is not time to distribute the profits, but let the profits remain. Apparently, he concluded, they've stolen a lot of liquid business, so now as a profit, let's go to the bank's capital increase. Really, like mobsters wrote this for themselves. Then to the persons of Article 1 of this bank member's position, this is what happens over the year, there's nothing of it, because you wrote this for free here, it's inapplicable. And a third position - if the total amount of payments referred to in item 1, these are dividends and payments based on the participation of employees in the creation of profits during the year, exceeds 10% of the capital or balance of success of the bank shows loss. I really don't get this. If the bank shows a loss, then there's no gain. What's in the last attitude and what's in the first position, it's fire and water, but it's not enough for them either. Here you need a doctor, see what he says - or the balance of success shows loss in the current or previous quarter, or business year by that date, the bank's distribution of these payments can only take place with prior approval of the NBS, so again the governor. A loss bank, a bank in chaos, a bank has gone beyond all this, legalized all these capitals, and it can share profits. In theory, there's no winnings, I don't know what these people were doing. Yesterday someone boasted that you were going to take some tests there, and whoever tested you there wouldn't have passed that entertainment test. These are so contradictory things, this is inapplicable, not even the last attitude. There's only one coin applicable here -- the governor of the NBS, and that's all that's going on here, and it's appearing as an alpha and an omega for all of this. There are logical problems here, not translation problems. I don't know, we have to put in the Rules of Procedure some provision on the mandatory review of the legislator, because what does this suggest, look. Can anyone else understand what they wrote? Even Vuk Draskovic, though he is denied in three sentences, is the first and the last. This is where the first attitude and the last attitude have nothing to do with it. The reasons given as points of view in the first position do not have a slight relationship. I don't know, we'll probably have to change the Rules of Procedure and ask for proof of medical professions if this is logical, if this doesn't offend mental health, so unless it offends mental health to come to the Assembly. As opposed to mental health, I ask that someone give a prescription, or medical report, because this must not enter the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22724	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stefan Zankov. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branislav Jankovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The word is made by MP Branislav Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22725	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on article 145. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I submit an amendment to the Bill on Banks. I am submitting the amendment to Article 28 of the law, with a proposal to delete the proposed member. In the light of this attitude, it is not without the fact that the proposal is addressed and included in the agenda in an urgent process of wanting to, thanks to the time shortage, SRS MPs to be disabled in the quality of the amendments, taking into account the opportunity for the explanation to take advantage of the public to warn and inform the public about the intentions of Minister Mladjan Dinkic to curtail all abuses in the sphere of banking policy, both his and the abuses of his like-minded. In order to even start an analysis of Article 28 that speaks about how to manage risks, it is logical to learn about the types of risks that banks are exposed to in their business and are contained in Article 29. This is: liquidity risk, credit risk, interest rate foreign exchange risk and other market risks, bank exposure risks to one person or group of connected persons, bank investment risks to other legal persons and to underlying assets, risks related to the country of origin of the person to which the bank is at risk and operational risk, including legal risk, as well as the risk of inadequate information management and other relevant technologies for the operation of the bank. Now that we're familiar with all the risks that the bank can be exposed to in its business, we move on to Article 28 from which, with the desire to clarify my amendment, I will quote only the first four positions. Otherwise, Article 28 speaks of risk management methods. "The bank identifies, measure and assess the risks it is exposed to in its business and manages these risks. The bank is required to educate a special organisational unit in which the risk management is part. The risk management shall be coordinated with the size and organisation of the structure of the bank, the scope of its activities and the types of operations the bank conducts. The Bank shall prescribe its activities procedures for identification, measurement and risk assessment, as well as for risk management, in accordance with regulations, standards and rules of the profession. "It is seen that these are too many powers and that the special risk management units contained in the position of the 2nd proposal of this article will be set up without clear legislative regulation, as it is contrary to Article 36 of this Bill, which says: "The National Bank of Serbia prescribes criteria for identifying, measuring and assessing risks, as well as for risk management, including: 1) how to calculate certain indicators of bank operations in relation to risk management and restrictions related to these risks; 2) the manner, form and deadlines of the bank's reporting of indicators referred to in point 1) of this attitude." As we can see, the fact is that NBS prescribes criteria for identification and measurement, risk assessment, as well as method, form and reporting deadlines for indicators. Knowing all this and what to say then on Article 28, paragraph 4, which says, "The bank prescribes procedures for identifying, measuring and assessing risks, as well as risk management, in accordance with regulations, standards and rules of the profession." It is absolutely unacceptable and unnecessary for the bank to adopt acts and regulations if it has already done so by the NBS and it is a sort of interference in jurisdiction. If we have all this in mind, we can see all the nonsense of Article 28 and try to take over NBS's intelligence from business banks, with a clear intention to mutilate the dishonest actions of Minister Mladjan Dinkic and a few of his contemporaries. Of course, you're going to say that you've foreseen control measures, but about who and how to implement it, I'm going to say when that part of the bill comes on the agenda, because I have an amendment in that segment of the proposal. In any case, the fact remains that the proposed law is bad and the MPs of the SRS will certainly not vote for its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22726	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22727	I'm going to try to explain the essence of the problem we have today, which is about banks, or our financial market. The problems stem from five or six years ago, when the opposition and today's government, because of the same political party corps, promised Serbian citizens that coming to power would provide a better standard of living, ensure a very fast and urgent entry into the European Union and the lives of Serbian citizens according to these European norms and criteria. Of course, they immediately set out to make those promises come true, so immediately after these changes to Serbia, foreign banks came. We've received a flood of various HVB, Raffisen, etc. Of course, there was no room for all the banks, so the domestics had to be shut down. The current finance minister, then governor of the National Bank, shut down the largest four Serbian banks in order to create room for the operations of these foreign banks first. Serbian citizens, of course, tried to exploit this presence of foreign banks, to move to live by these European standards and standards, according to world standards, so they set out to take tempting loans, which are seemingly tempting, because earlier Serbian citizens had no chance of using credit for their basic needs. Unfortunately, what we are different from Europe and this Western world are the interest rates that are in Serbia, although these are banks that are present in European countries, these interest rates in Serbia are much more than in these European countries. Although such high interest rates, citizens ran because the standards they currently have forced them to do so, so they started taking loans for basics, life supplies, technique, cars, etc. The IMF came to Serbia the other day to negotiate with our authorities, negotiations that announced success and which should have resulted in our rapid or express entry into the EU, but turned out to be something different. It turns out that Serbia is not going that way, i.e. the IMF is not satisfied with what is happening in Serbia. What's that not satisfied with? He's not pleased that a large number of citizens have entered these credit arrangements. It is not satisfied that inflation in Serbia is significantly higher than that projected and announced last year. What's going on? The IMF has cut off negotiations, with a clear message that Serbia is threatened by the debt crisis, that Serbian citizens are over-indebted, that they are entering these credit agreements lightly and too much. The government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance, and the National Bank are now trying to correct it. In what way? They're trying to fix it by obliging banks to probably pick up interest rates right after the new year, and maybe even earlier. Imagine, we had promises that we would be in the EU, that we would have a standard of Europe and the Western world, in part, on this path, at least with much higher interest rates, and the problem is that these interest rates are also low and they have to increase further, because Serbian citizens are not able to return all these loans, and the IMF and that Western Europe are the most important that their banks, their business offices in Serbia, are certain to be safe about their roles here. All this power, I say, because it has been a continuity since 2000, has been working for these five years has just been directed in this direction to ensure that foreign banks, their representations in Serbia, can, on secure conditions, acquire capital in Serbia, earn profits and increase that profit at the expense of Serbian citizens and domestic banks. A few days ago, the governor of the NBS said on a TV show, which I heard for the first time, that the banking margins in Serbia are far the largest in Europe, that they are even twice the size of our environment and twice the size of the Western European countries. Now an absurd which is not clear to me, it is in fact clear, but the citizens need to know that the governor of the NBS and the government are announcing that all banks in Serbia will be obliged to increase interest rates, in order to in some way stop this tendency to take credit. But on the other hand, the governor and the Serbian government do not find it appropriate to limit the banking margins in some way, to reduce the value of these banking services, so that all banking transactions for Serbian citizens are cheaper. Unfortunately, this is how we have a situation where all these services that banks provide to citizens and businesses are far the most expensive in all of Europe. Therefore, Serbian citizens will continue to pay or provide capital to foreign banks operating under privileged conditions in Serbia. And the law continues to retain those privileges that foreign representations have in Serbia. In fact, this law does not require foreign banks' representations in Serbia to have capital in a certain amount, which is prescribed for domestic banks. All domestic banks must have 10m euros worth of capital at any time, and the obligation does not stand for foreign banks' representations in Serbia. This brings our banks into an unequal position and slowly leads to their shut-down and elimination from our financial market. Just a short time to get back to the four largest banks the finance minister, and then the governor, shut down a few years ago. In one discussion, I asked that question, and I didn't get an answer. I don't know what happened in the meantime. It's been four years since these four largest banks were shut down. Many citizens who were depositors in these banks played some roles. According to my information a while ago, I don't know what's happened in the last few months, whether there's a change, all the citizens who have remained in debt to the banks, who had a minus on their current accounts, received warnings, probably from the Bank Restitution Agency, to settle their obligations to these banks. I'm interested, I asked that question at the time, what about citizens who had roles, or who were positive in their current accounts? Have the funds been returned to them and were they returned with or without interest? I'm fenced a little bit because I don't have the freshest information, but a few months ago, the situation was such that citizens who were in the downs got notices, and those who had a positive balance on the accounts weren't back then.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22728	The word has a finance minister, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22729	The answer to this question. As early as 2002, the Post Office was designated as a payment bank for all citizens who had a positive balance on accounts at four banks that went bankrupt, as well as for paying off net creditors from the economy. A total of 200 million German marks at that time, that was in 2002, was paid through the Post Office. Payments started on January 14th 2002 and ended within months. At that time, the Republic of Serbia's total budget of 200m marks was transferred to pay off all net creditors of the four banks in bankruptcy, so that they were all paid back in 2002. As for those who owe the banks, of course they have to pay that debt back.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22730	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22731	When the NBS Act was adopted, when other laws were passed, especially the Bank Rehabilitation Agency Act, it turned out later, in addition to the supervisory and absolute role played by the governor, by law and by this law on banks, that one issue was raised in public and among journalists, and among us politicians. I've potentiated it twice from the assembly pay phone and the minister never gave me an answer, and it's the bank rescheduling agency's account. Since I have data that the Agency for the Rehabilitation of Banks has most of its resources, the question is raised, Mr. Minister, when the primary role of the NBS is already present throughout this law, why these funds, meanwhile, are increased and sold by images, selling space, selling furniture, everything and everything, equipment, is not at the National Bank of Serbia, but in one private bank, you know which one. This article 30 wouldn't be controversial if it wasn't for the last fourth attitude. It might not be a questionable attitude if it weren't for the role that you now have and the connection, these are two connected persons, Dinkic and Jelasic, and this is the same Jelasic who now absolutely has all the control over the financial flows, along with you. Then it remains for the citizens in that picture when he appears in a red sweater with a boiling collar as a new savior in our monetary ugly and dreary reality, and now with his future approach, both counterpart Pop-Lazic and Mr Krasic spoke about it, in all the decisions you make under the law, there is a potential possibility of abuse. We already told you, you weren't there, Mr. Minister, when it came to Article 22, it was also the role of the NBS, which is here in the last position of Article 30 of the absolute, because it says the NBS prescribes a way of determining and the liquidity levels of the bank, which is not controversial, but including a critically low level of liquidity. We have also told you nicely about the indicators of capital adequateness, if it is a close bank, or the owners of capital, are in every way connected persons with you and with Governor Jelasic, of course the approach will be different and that the liquidity level, the lowest one, will be determined in such a way. About some objective approaches and objective response to your governor, we can't answer. Some taxpayers know that, as well as those who are protected as white bears, whose hair is not missing from their heads, and they are getting richer and richer today. It's just amazing to convince us that you'll have one such approach. Here, on this case, I'm asking you tonight for a clear answer when it comes to the account of the Bank Restitution Agency, nice to tell me why he's at that private bank, and he's talking again, and he's increasing more and more. It will be easy for the National Savings Bank, however it is now called, with this sale of its shares to the Greek bank and with an usurped business space of 7,200 m2, to possibly, if it experiences this lowest level of liquidation, or risk, that it must meet these obligations prescribed by Article 30, to meet it. What are we going to do with these still domestic banks, who pray to God and can't wait to be privatized as soon as possible, because in impossible conditions they operate. You are today a false lie. First, you said this would make it a lot easier to start new banks. This is pure legalization, I have to repeat what I said an hour and a half ago, because you weren't in the O.R. for about two or three hours, legalizing the business of these foreign banks, allegedly domestic, which are monopolistic. And on the other hand, if this is a coordinated approach with the IMF and with the World Bank, it is not appropriate for our capital market and it is truly amazing that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not to use an even worse term, accepts such a nebulous legal project. We will end up explaining to you that this absolute role is played by the National Bank of Serbia and the Governor, who is your party colleague, or you are the famous twin in Serbia who does what he wants in the area of the financial sector, so that he can play with the fates of the banks. In addition, I expect that this will happen after the adoption of this law, that within a much shorter period than that of a year this remaining Serbian bank will be privatised. You told another lie today, Mr. Dinkic, on a very important remark. It's not the only one, but I'm going to make a very important observation to look back at and worry about my colleague Milorad Mircic, when it comes to the Vojvodina Bank and when it comes to the huge debt, which agricultural combinations have towards the Vojvodjanska Banka, and it is the mortgage of the first row that it has over that land. You say - there is no concern, that mortgage will be drawn in the future sale of the Vojvodjanska Banka. Don't talk to me. And how are you going to do that? So how is she going to charge for those combinations that own huge land complexes? You know that this is not possible under the Privatisation Act, which is in force, as well as the Business Society Act, which was adopted by the National Assembly a year ago. If they have that land, and if they owe the Vojvodjanska Banka, of course the Vojvodjanska Banka will be privatized with a new owner, who will be only you or already known, that it may even go to the full structure and purpose of the land in Vojvodina to change. What is for us is a fertile Dukean plain, which is a grain field, can tomorrow be a place where construction facilities or something else will be built, which is neither good for our agrarian nor for our agriculture. In this there is a danger from one member to another to complete and to document the sale of state property in such a way as to sell out and destroy this little bank in Serbia what is left, and what is business and has played a fundamental role here, from our citizens, from economy and business successfully with the economy back 15-20 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22732	Finance Minister Mr. Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22733	Since there's a lot of misunderstandings, something false, something intentional, something random, let's get one more thing straight. As I said, the privatisation process of banks, where the state has the majority capital, is done by first cleaning up the uncharging claims from the balance sheet of banks. All claims of banks that are exposed to the privatisation process, which are not chargeable and which are 100 percent reserved, are derived from the bank balance sheet, the government's agreement buys them out for one dinar and all those claims against those combinations, which you mentioned earlier, shifts them to the portfolio of the Republic of Serbia. In other words, if the Vojvodjanska Banka gave credit to a combination, the combination did not pay back that money, the Vojvodjanska Banka mortgaged, the Vojvodjanska Banka has a mortgage on the land, but since the combination cannot pay back that money, so that the property would not be given to any future buyer of the Vojvodjanska Banka, there is an operation called the girls out, extracting these claims, by giving the government consent to the Agency to buy that claim for a single dinar and it becomes the property of the Republic of Serbia. For example, this entire mortgage portfolio is located at the Deposit Insurance Agency. So, the state institution, and with the government's consent, has already done so at Jubanka, at Novosadska, at Continental, with all the banks that are already privatised, all the claims that are not remunerated, so that the mortgages don't fall into the hands of whoever's the new buyer and who might charge it, and since this one can't pay back, you have no other way, but to return it back to the state again. The state institution bought it for a single dinar, with the government's consent, because it's an irrevocable claim. As for the billable claims, what can be returned, the companies that are active, of course you can't get out of the bank's balance sheet, because then the value of the bank's capital falls, but what you specifically asked, those combinations that don't now work, they have a mortgage on the ground, it's all derived from the Vojvodjanska banka balance, as it was from these other banks, and it's in the country's portfolio. This portfolio is managed by the Deposit Insurance Agency. It can only be bought on government orders, it bought it for a single dinar and became the state of Serbia owner of these mortgages, i.e. the country you were talking about. As far as the funds available to the Deposit Insurance Agency are concerned, I would just like to remind you that this assembly has passed a change in the Law on the Bank Rehabilitation Agency. It is no longer called that, given that we have completed the restructuring process of the banking sector and that there will be no more need for the resolution and liquidation of banks, it is called the Deposit Insurance Agency. Most of the funds are held right at the National Bank of Serbia or in the consolidated account of the Treasury of Finance, and the account is located within the National Bank of Serbia, one very small part of the funds of its own income at its disposal held in the Commercial Bank, whose majority is the owner of Serbia's state. So, no deposits in private banks.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22734	The word has an MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22735	Let's go back to article 30 of the law and the amendment tabled by the MP Natasa Jovanovic, and, by the way, let's at least demystify this banking business for the lay. And I'm a layman, I'm not a banking expert, but I'm so clear on what's going on, so before what's done in banks is done in every household and every day in Serbia. So the risk of liquidity is the risk of the potential for negative effects. The point is, the loan was given, the one won't pay you back, you're shorter in the bank fund. The same thing you do when you give your neighbor money on the loan, he won't pay you back, you can't afford that money. That's why the bank is going either on a mortgage or on other means of ensuring the return of funds. He goes on to say - the bank manages its assets and liabilities in a way that allows it to meet its commitments at all times. So, if your electricity bills arrive today, and you received your salary yesterday, you're liquid, as it is said in that banking jargon. And to meet its obligations permanently, that's the bank's insolvency. If you're getting paid and you can constantly finance basic expenses, then you're also a solvent. It further says - for the sake of effective liquidity risk management, the bank’s competent authority adopts and implements a liquidity management policy, which includes the planning of the inflow and the outflow of cash, liquidity monitoring and the adoption of appropriate measures to prevent or eliminate the cause of liquidity. We're going back to the country household. You won't give your neighbor money on the loan, if that puts you in a position so you can't pay your bills. We come to the fourth position that we criticise in all the members of this law, which is that the National Bank of Serbia prescribes a way of introducing and the levels of liquidity of the bank, including a critically low level of liquidity. If this were the same thing for all banks, if the law were settled, then it would be a different story, but you're letting the governor again be a different way of determining the level of liquidity of the bank, according to another, depending first of all on how much he's willing to give to the governor. I don't trust the Governor. It's the governor who was chosen by that voice from Bodrum by Kori Udovici, so with an invalid vote elected governor, he came as deputy governor and for two days he was a deputy governor and was not a citizen of Serbia, only after two days he won citizenship. At the same time, he was head of a commission or working group, I no longer remember what it was called, which was tasked with assessing and selling South Bank's capital, then the minister was governor when the South Bank was acceded, and then the capital and assets of the bank to assess and sell. It is the same Jelasic who bought the Mercedes, two years old and over 30,000, for 12,000 euros. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the same governor who bought the same villa for 380,000 euros, that's the same governor who today decides whether or not to be any bank, and the school has learned, his teachers have been, at least three, as far as I know, and I'm wondering how he's lucky for that man to buy everything he buys for himself so cheaply. Either he's a good salesman or there's some part of being a member of a certain encrypted organization, because if this is pure luck, then I'd recommend that he buy those scratches, scratch cards, he'd already be selling the third Mercedes. I'm sure you'd get four.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22736	National MP Miloljub Albianic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22737	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, dignity of the National Assembly and of the People's MPs. We've been listening all day, and I don't want to go into controversy, or anyone to blame for anything, but I'm asking everyone to come to this home with respect, not primarily using arguments to demean individuals who are at the head of certain institutions. These institutions are the most important institutions in our country. In particular, you can't use a guy's arguments that someone bought a certain apartment or a house on a loan, and we know it was in a previous period, that they were getting apartments, and I'm not going to use that argument to state the names of the people they were getting. I guess the time has come today, and we want to build such a time, that we can borrow, as in other developed countries, to get the right housing unit to use and return credit to market value. So the difference is in a normal judgment earlier today. It is very important that we do not try to degrade individuals, who have professional weight in Serbia, because this is how a significant institution collapses. I would hate to have such a language spoken, and that is why I first appeared, not now entering some other demeaning details that are not suitable for this home. I think there's a different way to criticise the law, if that's the goal, but not to go into the demeaning of a person.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22738	Replica, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22739	The predecessor misunderstood me, and I have some things I need to make clear. I'm not asking if the governor bought a villa on loan. Everyone has the right to raise credit and take care of the liquidity of their household, that the loan is normally paid off, rather than the problem of buying the villa as much as he admitted by 380,000 euros. Another problem is that the state did not pay taxes to buy that villa.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22740	Replica, MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22741	He asks his colleague Albianic how to rephrase. Now let me explain. You went into the O.R. and you heard something about Jelasic, you immediately jumped to the presentation of colleagues Markovic. The debate on the law on banks, Article 30, is under way, the amendment submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. Do you understand now? So it's not just this issue that is market value and purchase value in incredible proportion, it's the problem, Mr. Albianic, in that, and you must have learned that for this year and a half, which is the role of the MPs. So, they can't answer from this assembly booth for a publicly spoken word, an evaluation of political, professional, each other's kind, based on information they have or have information about something or have a certain political attitude. So, the SRS since it's been in the National Assembly, which is since 1991, and we're all more and more, has one position in suspicious business, suspicious sales, suspicious purchases. At least it's illogical, pal, to tell you that everyone has the right to raise credit when you know what your salary is, and what the salary of the governor of the NBS is. Although that is so, 380,000, market value is estimated at 1,300,000 euros. Some journalists, public life figures offered Jelasic to trade with him and say, if it's for 380,000 and if it's less valuable than that, and she's much bigger, here's what I'm going to give him, but it's about an incredible amount of credit, if you're talking about a loan and an incredible amount of war. If you've gotten so far to defend the governor, then make sure you figure out what kind of credit it is and what kind of war it is. Is it possible that someone with their incomes to the governor of the NBS would pay for it? The war must be 2,000 euros a month, no matter what two, three thousand euros a month, within 25 years, or it has received some loan from these banks at 150 or 2000 years with a five-euro payment per month. That's pure logic. We talked for days and before that, and when it was a state corporation, this law on banks, what the average war for a 50-square loan in Belgrade is, what is the price of a square meter and how much money it is. A national MP with a salary of over 100,000 dinars will well consider whether he will take such a loan and repay it. Minister Dinkic can come out and say if he is ready, if you say so, he may know the financial structure of his colleague and friend Jelasic, perhaps not know whether you ministers are ready to enter a credit arrangement that can be on the longest time of 25 or 30 years for a property of 380,000 euros and a war of 4.35%. Count quickly, here's a fellow mathematician, let him help you with the amount of war you're going to have. How many ministerial salaries do you need to cover that salary? That's all we're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22742	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22743	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 31. Article 31 The draft law prescribes norms which do not make any sense that they can be effectively applied in practice. They may have a purpose and purpose to achieve certain interests of individuals. When it comes to banks, it is known, I will not repeat, MPs of the SRS have prepared for this law, read, interpret and explain it in detail. I would not explain in detail this part of Article 31, because the provisions of this can in any case not be effective for banking in the Republic of Serbia. It is known that we had banks, and it is known that the arrival of DOS to power has left around 10,000 bank employees out of work. We now have such a situation that foreign mobsters have moved into the business premises of our banks under unfavourable conditions. We now have foreign banks inflation. At every corner, you'll see now a foreign bank company both in English and in French and not counting. However, our country should protect its banking. How do we protect our banking? We are not protecting in any way, because we have given the opportunity and opportunity to foreign mobsters, who have come to our country, taken possession of our property and are drawing foreign exchanges from our citizens. What's gonna happen someday? You will also have those who will take the money as foreign-saving fairy tales, pick up the money and run away, and the citizens of Serbia are left without basic funds, i.e. the funds they invested in those banks. Here's a question about Postage Savings and Minister Dinkic. The minister writes something, but one question for the minister, if he's in the mood to listen and if he can answer. Mr. Minister, it happened this year, July in Vrsca. Vrsac's postal savings bank accounted for a citizen of 352,000 euros. The citizen is called Janevski Dimitar, whose entire family has worked abroad for 40 years and has invested these 352 thousand euros in the Postage Savings Centre in Vrsac. The citizen, therefore a Serbian citizen, came in July to raise the 17,000 euros it is worth this year, it was an old foreign exchange savings, slightly less than a million marks, it was converted into euro, and 352,000 euros owned by the citizen at the Postanska Savings. Vrsac's postal savings bank re-writes those funds to the Alpa-Adria Banka in Belgrade by means of a forged contract concluded in Mionica, in the Municipal Court, certified on Saturday or Sunday, so with the help of the bank. The question is raised, and this is not the only case, if the secrecy of the role is guaranteed, how is it possible for that citizen to lose these funds, and to find someone who will, in a word or through a forged contract and by means of a forged ID card, determines the identity of the one who comes to take over the funds by means of a certified contract. The citizen comes to raise funds, in the Post Office they tell him, you don't have a yellow bank in your account, let alone 352,000 euros. The man speaks to the National Bank of Serbia, and she answers, says, yes, that is the Post Office of Vrsac re-registered to Hypo Alpe-Adria Banka in Belgrade, and this man has lost funds. What happens next? He speaks to this bank, and she says that, but in the interest of the investigation, I cannot comment on which one from Valjev, who managed to raise funds from the bank, the savings bank and the bank in Belgrade, and to disappear. Mr. Minister, it is expected that the state must be effective, that certain measures must be applied in a timely manner. Unfortunately, still the thief and the fraud and the criminal, who verified the contract, falsified the citizen's ID card, raised funds, he lives in Valjevo, and they haven't arrested him yet, with the help of the bank. You're the minister who knows the whole procedure, knows the organization and the bank's obligation to keep business secrets. As the one from Valjev could come up with data that in Vrsac, there are 352,000 euros in the account of Janevski Dimitrov. I doubt it, I have the right to doubt it, and this citizen suspects that he was given data from the savings bank, and that this is how he bought the shares from the savings bank, that's the problem, with that money. Mr. Minister, this isn't the only case. You have the next case for 100,000 euros, the same way it happened in Kursumlia. One lady, 75 years old, her entire assets and her ancestors were placed in the Postage Savings and the same way the con men managed to take the money. The question arises: is there an accomplice from the bank, i.e. from the savings store or not. The next case is in Somboro, the same way these things happen. Mr. Minister, the matter is very serious, I ask the question: will the Post Office be able to pay the damages under the Bond Relations Act and by the Banking Business Act, whether that citizen will be able to see his assets or not. He has entrusted his resources to the Postman's Savings, and now I'm asking you as responsible minister, if this citizen will be able to collect funds from whoever he trusted to guard. One more question, and I would like to ask you for an answer, why some pensioners are being paid late from seven days in Serbia. Announced on television, the payout will be tomorrow, the ones who receive through the current account, and those who receive on their hands at home will be the next day. It happens in practice, maybe you don't know it, I can't blame you, but maybe your people know who gave the order to hold Serbian pensioners' funds and turn around. Pensioners to whom pensions belong and benefits that day should be paid that day. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22744	The word has a finance minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22745	As far as the question of the Post Office is concerned, it's obviously a matter of police jurisdiction, not a finance minister, because if it's a criminal act of this kind, if that's true, it's a job for the police, not for the governor and the finance minister. That citizen has to report it and the police are in charge, and if it's something like this, if that's true, it's a crime. So it has nothing to do with the financials, it's a matter for the courts and the police. As far as pensions are concerned, what's very important is that you know how this technique works. The technique is, since pensions are paid twice a month, the finance ministry through the finance ministry's vault delivers that amount of funding to the pension fund that is missing, and those other parts collect from the contribution that is being charged. We start a few days before the official payment to deliver those funds and in the end, all of a sudden all those funds are on the pension fund's account. A single-day pension fund delivers eight or nine billion, depending on how much it takes to pay off all pensions in Serbia, and then banks distribute it. In some banks, it goes far faster, and in some, slower. It's not up to the state, it's up to the banks. We had problems with the Post Office Savings, I spoke publicly about it a year and a half ago, which is why, together with the post office people, we tried everything to keep that deadline as short as possible and in most cases we succeeded. It's possible there are still some controversial cases that this payment doesn't end in two or three days, how technically it has to go. Of course, if citizens took money from the current account, it would be in one day. But since people want part of the money in cash, then it takes and requires appropriate technical efforts for postmen to deliver that money to the farthest places. But what's contradictory, these are the answers to your questions, that's this in your previous presentation. You say -- we should protect domestic banking, and then you mark, in this case, a postal savings bank that's a domestic bank as one of the banks where these problems you've been talking about happen. We really do not want to distinguish between banks by nationality, but from how Serbian citizens serve. If the bank serves Serbian citizens well, if Serbian citizens work in it, it is a good bank. What we were benefiting from was that we didn't have any foreign banks, but total banking was national in the 1990s, when we couldn't get any credit there, when we couldn't get paid in those banks, when you could only buy foreign exchanges on the street through dealers, when you weren't getting out of those savings banks, for nothing that was allegedly national banks, because they weren't national banks when they weren't working in the national interest. Now we have banking that works in the national interest. Unfortunately, you yourself confirm, if there are any problems, there's no problem with those banks where we've issued new work permits, but at the Post Office, unfortunately, which is 100% state bank. I repeat, this is a case for the police, a serious case, and I will distract my colleague Jocic to look into what this is all about, but a citizen himself should address the police directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22746	Replica, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22747	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, I had no intention of accusing the police now. The police are doing their job, but in this case, the police weren't effective. He was supposed to be arrested, and in order to be of interest to the investigation, I can't name the person who did it, but at least the damaged suspicion that it was done with the help of the people of the Savings and that's not the only case. Secondly, Mr. Minister, I asked the question, since you are a member of the government, so I ask, you said that the Savings Office is state property, whether the state will make up for that citizen, whose savings officer has invested in, whether it isn't Dafina and the jedda new, to compensate for the damage, because here is the damage, especially if he has escaped the police and has not been arrested and tried. If that's true, Mr. Minister, that he bought those money shares at the Post Office, and if he got out across the border, now I'm just asking if that citizen will be able to make up for his damage. Because if you are or if a Janko is the owner of the Post Office, if you trust him to guard 352,000 euros and they are gone because she has had them, not with his consent and with his will and consent, the Post Office, whether the State will pay him off these foreign exchanges and compensate for the damages. That's what I mostly focused my question on.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22748	The word is made by MP Momir Markovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22749	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, said the minister, the banks they signed, work in harmony, return, pay and so on. The old foreign savings are paid by the National Savings Bank. Mr. Bogdan Stokuqi, who invested in the 1990s, marks at that time, came back a man from abroad, so that old foreign currency savings was frozen, turned him into that old foreign currency savings into action, the value of those actions was about an eye, if at that time it was calculated that the euro was 70 dinars, yet the euro was not, but to perform the bill, somewhere around 13.663 euros. If there were 70 dinars, that would be 956,430 dinars. When he went to the National Savings Bank to pick up, because he had to go to some operation that he had to pay for, they paid him 295,950 dinars, so much he covered the operation, and then the man came to the National Savings Bank to see what else he had and when he could pick up the rest, and the rest was about 660,480 dinars. They told him - your card is empty, closed, your balance is zero, you no longer have anything in the National Savings. So much for paying off old foreign savings, about 30% is paid.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22750	The word has a finance minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22751	It pays off with that dynamic that you can, unlike when you were in power, when nothing was paid. So, the debt based on the old foreign exchange savings started in April 1991, and from 1991 to 2000 very little money was paid back to the citizens, then you didn't drill into your chest to say why you didn't pay back the money. It's not your fault the money's trapped, but you didn't do anything to get the money back. We have returned a billion euros in these five years, and therefore Mr Bogdan Stokuća has received that share as well as all other citizens of Serbia, proportionally as it could have been allocated from the budget. We can't single out more than 1% of gross social product for old savings, but I'm saying that in the period until 2000 zero is singled out. Then say nice, you haven't had the opportunity to return anything, and now you're criticizing it when it comes back as much as it comes back, a billion euros might be a little bit, better that we've all got all four back in the last five years. But that wasn't possible. I am very pleased that, thanks to the billions of euros returned, the savings are now 200 times higher than they were five years ago and amounting to 2,100,000 euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22752	Replica, Momir Markovic, then after the presentation, Mr Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22753	Just two things to make up for. First, we weren't, we were coming, you were already. Secondly, it's not a problem that you brought back only 290,000 dinars in dinar equivalent, it's a problem that this National Savings Bank, with your knowledge or without your knowledge, with or without approval, stole 660,000 anyway, and that's the essence.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22754	Here you go. The word has a minister of finance.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22755	I don't really know if you're coming, it depends on the citizens of Serbia, but you were. As you know, my friend Krasic was a trade minister at a time when there was no oil in the shops. Your friend Jorgenka Tabakovic was the minister of privatisation. One of the rare cases now in these housing loans, where a request for a housing loan was rejected because forged documents were in the case of a member of the Jorvanka Tabakovic family, a former SRS minister, who said she had more than six months of internships and had three months of working relations. She falsified confirmation of the length of the job and the National Corporate foreclosure of housing loans, not because it was a member of the Jorgenka Tabakovic family, but because the citizen broke the law, she did not grant a housing loan. So you can hope you'll come, it's legitimate, the citizens will decide, but don't say you weren't, so we all know you were.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22756	Please, the word has been made by the People's MP Markovic. Please, without personal tones, I'm sorry, I don't know what this is about, I wasn't there.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22757	Yes, we were, and here we are now after these next choices we'll be again, and you've been and you'll never be again, because look at the research, you have 0.2%, and you don't get into the local community.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22758	Thank you. The word is Mr. Krasic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22759	The replica, but it's a little confused in order, it took me a long time to get a chance to replicate. Mr. Dinkic, in your first presentation, you made a few mistakes, and the two are really eclectic. The first is what you said - while you Serbian radicals were in power did not return to foreign exchanges, old foreign currency savings were not paid. And right away in the next sentence, you said that the old foreign currency savings were created in 1991. That replacement and that mix, which you're skillfully trying to do, is really inappropriate. At the time of the appearance, so-called. The old foreign exchange savings, along with all the fences that it's an inadequate and wrong expression, I must tell you that there was a break-up of SFRY in action from abroad and from within, at the time of that Ante Markovic. You know how the foreign exchanges were taken and how the debt came to be. It would not be correct not to say so, as very often you and your G17, when you talk about debts, forget only one fact, that the debts that remained between Serbia and Serbia-Montenegro were created before 1986. Once you need to get into your head, the SRS was part of the government from 24 March 1998 to 25 October 2000. A year after we entered power, the bombings by your friends and your financials have taken place, or you are their exhibits here. Mr. Dinkic, on his second date, fried the soup and showed what kind of man he was. A few days ago, we heard that his friend Tomislav Nikolic was a friend, and now we have heard that in the replica Mr. Markovic, even the family of Jorgovanka Tabakovic was mixed. If he was able to say that even his friend Verica Radeta, and she from this pay phone dumped him, then assess the weight of all those words that Mladjan Dinkic utters from this pay phone. And we still don't have an answer to the epochal eureka called Mladjan Dinkic from Cyprus -- it's okay, I found $4.5 billion, which belongs to this people, I found all the money stolen by the Milosevic family. He brought in 82 boxes of documents from the embassy or consular representation of our state in Cyprus related to the COBY bank and those 1054 warrants, announced and did nothing. Just to remind ourselves of one thing, since 5 October 2000 Serbia has been a leader in the Balkans, it is on the rise, it is getting help, not sanctions. In that short period of 30 months, while the SRS participated in power, not only were sanctions but there were also severe consequences of previously imposed sanctions and the war facts of those who brought you to power against Serbia. Don't worry, the citizens of Serbia haven't forgotten it yet, and they won't forget anything, and they shouldn't forget anything. If he forgets, he can come back. Keep in mind when criticizing the SRS that at least you're doing it in a principled way, and not using lies, like a few days ago that Vukic is your home friend, that Tomislav is your friend, that you even went into the bank with him, that Veronica Radeta is your friend. And you all remember, yesterday is the main culprit that Mladjan Dinkic did not bring the money from Cyprus to Serbia, Bin Laden, who brought down New York. You haven't explained your relationship with Bin Laden yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22760	By the same amendment, anyone else? No, I don't. Thank you. (I Nemanja Sarovic, from the post: I am looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure. Nemanja Sarovic according to the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22761	Mr Markovic, I really expected you to warn Minister Dinkic, not only because you are the chairman, but because he is from your party, I thought you might have heard some of the nonsense he said earlier, so you came down to intervene. It was clear just now that it was a matter of fact-telling... (Mladjan Dinkic, from the site: Take care of the dictionary. Mr. Markovic, Minister Dinkic is threatening me here, I don't know what hit him.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22762	Please, Mr. Sarovic, you have reached out to the Rules of Procedure, point to a member's injury, and do not pay attention to the gymnastics of the hands present at the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22763	Mr. Markovic, I demand of you as chairman to provide me here to speak. Second, to ensure that your ministers behave here. No matter what he thinks or doesn't have in mind, and no matter what I say from this pay phone and how I qualify his exposure, of course he has no right to threaten me. Don't think, of course, that I was scared of it, but then let him be brave enough to come out here for a pay phone, so let's let him say so that everyone can hear. You have been obliged to warn Mr Dinkic that he does not represent the facts of other people's private lives, especially that he does not do this in the way he did it. So here is a series of untrues, with the mention of Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, who was not a minister, she was a minister, and these are your suminist, worker, performer, fighter and everything else, and this applies to all those who belong to your so-called. The block. Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic was a minister. Furthermore, if you already have some knowledge of your ministry or any other, it is your turn to make it known properly. Also, it would be your co-workers' turn to behave. This is the second time that they interfere, that is, that any of the speakers warns you of their behavior. They distract all the speakers constantly, laugh, talk, read the papers and earn. Now I demand of you, Mr. Markovic, that this face, I really don't know or care what it's called, step away from the gym. You were also warned by Mrs Pop-Lazic that the same face interfered with her while she explained the amendment. Now, I'm warning you, too, that while I'm pointing to this breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'm disturbing you. So Article 27 was injured, you injured him, Article 104 was injured. I repeat once again, I ask you to warn the minister that he no longer behaves the way he behaves and that a person who insists on distracting the speakers as they address everyone in the O.R., step away from the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22764	Thank you. Member of the 32nd Amendment was submitted by MP Srjo Komazec. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. A little decent behavior. Mr. Sarovic, the president has to work on the Rules of Procedure. Let me finish my sentence. No one can get a word in the Rules of Procedure until the sentence is finished. Please, Mr. Komazec, you will wait a little while, as he has reported to the Rules of Procedure MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22765	Mr. Markovic, if you are already referring to the Rules of Procedure and how you have to work on the Rules of Procedure, then go ahead and try on it and act. I really don't want any more, nor can I tolerate your behavior, nor can it be attributed, possibly, to your inexperience. You've been president of the National Assembly long enough, as some say, and it definitely has been too long. I think there's been plenty of time to get to know the Rules of Procedure. What your first and primary duty was, after I warned you that the Rules of Procedure had been injured, was to answer me and give me an opportunity to state whether I was satisfied with your answer or wish to be made known in the day of voting by the National Assembly. You, in your well-known manner, are trying to get over some things, hoping it will go away. So you're acting like a child who when he covers his hands, his eyes thinks no one sees him. Mr. Markovic, it's obvious it's some kind of disease spreading through the G17 parliamentary group. Now, obviously, Mr. Albianic is acting completely out of control. I accept, perhaps that stocking Mr Dinkic took over from Mr Nikolic, so instead of putting it on his head, he may have now given it to Mr Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22766	I warn you not to speak of the private life of the MPs. That's strictly forbidden.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22767	Mr. Markovic, you weren't there in the previous debate. Mr Dinkic himself said that he received the sock from Tomislav Nikolic and that he went nowhere along with Aleksandra Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic. It is also obvious that Tomislav Nikolic, not knowing that the stocking will not be used for the leg but for the head, seems to have taken that stocking from the wrong crowd, which may have led to such effects.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22768	Once again, I warn you not to express yourself about private life and what MPs carry in private. Mr. Sarovic, in no way could I have guessed, we'll consult a stenogram tomorrow, that you've reported in connection with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I realized that you called the Rules of Procedure and pointed out a whole series of situations that, I can trust you with a word, existed when I wasn't sitting at the table, so I couldn't even react in that way. I can't answer why I didn't react to something when I wasn't there. I assume you accept that. There's no need to explain. If you're not satisfied with that kind of answer, then I'm answering you now. You just reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So the president is unable to take responsibility for the conduct of the Rules of Procedure when he is absent, as the Rules of Procedure allow one of the vice-presidents to replace him in these affairs. The president is also obliged to meet, and he has introduced all those present, and these are those who must be present as representatives of the ministry. That's what it was during the session before noon, the MPs were present, there were multiple words, so I don't know what else to do. I don't suppose you're happy with the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22769	Mr. Markovic, there's no need for you to assume anything. It's just not your job. You do better what you really do is your job.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22770	Now I give you my first warning. I said it's forbidden to speak, according to the Rules of Procedure, about the private life of other persons - MPs, and I beg you not to speak of my private life. I'll have to give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22771	Here you go, Mr. Markovic. I just want to show that anti-democracy spirit of yours. You just can't try to hide what you really are anymore. So don't think you're gonna scare me or scare me with your warning. Mr. Markovic, you can do whatever you want. You've been acting as you wish. I was absolutely not talking about your private life, nor am I interested in your private life. What is your job or what is not your job in this assembly, it is in no way, Mr. Markovic, cannot say that it refers to your private life. What you're doing here, especially while you're in the presidency's position, is in no way under the category of your private life. So, if you don't understand the provisions of this Rules of Procedure or you don't want to understand them, that may be your problem, but it certainly isn't your private problem as long as you sit in that place where you sit. The other thing is, I didn't comment on whether someone was going to sit here and help the minister or not. It's obvious the minister needs help, and it's over. Mr. Markovic, I insisted that those who came here to help the minister do so. They must in no way influence the speakers, and in particular they must not do what they do, therefore, to earn and to interfere with speakers. It's one thing for one of the MPs to interfere with the speaker. It's something that in a democratic spirit as much as can be tolerated, but when a minister does, it's already inadmissible. When someone who came here with a minister and who doesn't even have that kind of legitimacy, who can't even speak in any variant from this assembly pay phone, then no variant can tolerate it. If you think that this is how you're gonna stop anyone from coming out here and stamping your anti-business and anti-democratic behavior, then you're wrong. There must be some continuity here. The fact that you're going to light a cigarette, have coffee or anything else, I'm absolutely not interested. If you have come, you have continued to chair the session instead of one of the vice presidents who replaced you, then you are obliged, Mr. Markovic, to inform yourself of what was happening right before that. So it can't justify you not knowing something, so you say we'll consult a stenogram tomorrow. Here you go, Mr. Markovic, so do it now, because tomorrow will be too late, when this debate is over, to sanction this behavior that you need to sanction. (President:Time. ) Did I answer to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure or not, of course I did. If you had listened to me carefully, you would have heard that I also listed members of the Rules of Procedure who were injured, not one, but two. (President: Time, second time.) ) So, next time, and now I expect you to answer me specifically about these members of the Rules of Procedures that I have listed, and then to explain why you broke the Rules of Procedure, and you did not answer me, and you were obliged, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, so I had to go out here again for a pay phone to remind you of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22772	Thank you. Of course, you are not satisfied with the answer, so the congregation will have to plead. I'm really sorry, I really didn't notice that you were distracted during the face exposure that you mentioned and I couldn't react that way. Every time I notice something like that, which I've done before, I'll certainly intervene in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I say once again, I really can't answer for the actions of the presidents who weren't in the O.R. So, be nice, the Assembly will make a statement on that in the voting day. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Srjo Komazec. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Komazec.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22773	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 32. A bill on banks, and I suggest that article 32 be deleted. Article 32. The draft law on banks regulates interest and foreign exchange risks and other market risks, and in the Risk Management Department. The interest risk is the potential for negative effects on the bank's financial outcome and capital as a result of the change in interest rates. This risk is practically impossible, since each bank is more than sufficient to be secured from any type of risk, both in terms of the repayment of the loan and in terms of the interest rate on credit assets. All of this I've listed for interest risk applies to foreign exchange risk as well. This argument of my of the senselessness of this member has also been made imperative in the position of the 3rd of this law, because it is said that the bank is obliged, i.e. to align the scope and structure of its assets and obligations in a way that enables efficient management of market risks. Mr. Minister, it is difficult to believe objectively in the true intention of your legal proposals, when it is known that you are as a self-proclaimed governor of the National Bank, with the help of all kinds of firearms and socks on your head, has fallen into the People's Bank and from there destroyed Serbian banking, which has been built for years and will not be able to recover until you reach the power of the SRS, but to say, because of our public, it will happen soon. I hope that in the day set for the vote, MPs will support this amendment of mine. I would like to ask the parliamentary question of Minister Dinkic, as president of the Municipality of Stara Paz. Since SO's representatives of Stara Paz adopted the conclusion in October last year that the budgetary financial inspection carried out control in the municipality of Stara Paz, as well as in all public enterprises whose founder of Stara Paz's municipalities, has not done so so far. I note that we have both written and orally asked Minister Dinkic to send a budget financial inspection. Since I am a member of the Serbian Parliament's Finance Committee, I insisted three times at the Committee's meeting with Minister Dinkic to send a budget financial inspection to the municipality of Stara Paz and all three times promised to send me. For the last time, he promised me he would do so by February of this year. This concludes how much Minister Dinkic is a man of his word, but it can also be concluded that Minister Dinkic is thus covering up the crimes of your local government in the municipality of Stara Pazova.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22774	Anyone else by the same amendment? Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22775	The amendment that we have submitted to Article 32 practically represents only one in a series of amendments which affect what is called risk management, and some international standards have been translated into legal provisions. It's always been there. Each bank has long used, more or less under these terms or other, to take care of its risks. It used to be more serious, sometimes it wasn't serious, and sometimes it wasn't necessary. At the time that the stock exchanges were circulated in this country and the financial directors valued themselves according to the capabilities they had in the bank to get their bond going and thus create some money for the company, then these risks were excluded, because it was always above that of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, in that system of the Socialist Self-Government System. So, risk management or identification and risk reduction, maybe even a better expression, has always existed in some normal banking business, because the bank is paper. The bank is reportedly an institution which, based on a small amount of money for which there is a cover, emits a large amount of paper money by its operations to pay the citizens and businesses in order to pay interest and in the difference between the active and positive interest rates of the bank's profits, and it depends rather on the bank's relationship with the governor of the National Bank, from the position of each bank's credit potential. Management of these risks and jobs to reduce these risks to the minimum is standard business. Here something from international banking standards is introduced as a norm, but everything under the watchful patronage of the National Bank of Serbia, which, within the meaning of Article 28, is closer to the requirements, the way, identification, measurement and risk assessment. Article 32 refers to the risks of interest and foreign exchange. The interest risk may occur when there is a change in interest rate, and the exchange rate may occur when a change in course occurs. Now there's some experience here in this country. What are the consequences? My predecessor has made it very clear that in this new business, which has been imposed by foreign banks and banks that do not have dues from an earlier period, whose balances have been cleared, one can run a normal banking policy, which would be reduced to how much money you want to pay, along with rigorous means of payment security. By definition, these risks are reduced to a minimum. They may come forward, but if they do, they are the result of a kind of protection that is present when one of the founders or his dependent companies appears for a loan, and he did not give all the funds that are usually asked of others, and this part is impossible to end without the National Bank of Serbia. You must know that, because the National Bank of Serbia is in control. We have 47 banks, maybe a little more. Most of these banks, probably 40 of them, have no dubiosis from an earlier period, because they've been cleaned and they're new to both capital and other parameters. So there's an obligation for each bank to have its own organisational part, which will monitor and identify these risks and propose measures to reduce these risks. This is one of the reasons why you're going with the new law, because you're installing something from the directive, as if it's something epochal new. I'd just draw your attention to Article 30, there's a liquidity risk, but it's also given as a liquidity risk and a liquidity risk, because here, in a way, there's a substitute for more responsibility based on having property or having no property or liability based on whether there's money or not there's no money in the account. So, if someone thought that the provisions of Articles 28 to 40 were something epochal, I have to tell you that nothing was epochal and that there was now, partly in the Banks Act that is still in force today, much more in the decisions of the governor of the NBS and the most in international standards defined as rules of good banking business, which almost all banks applied, just didn't want to have problems, they wanted to choose for the best possible bonus, because this is an integral part, i.e. the most significant part of the bond, and every bank cares about having that bonus. Of course, we have submitted this amendment to get a chance to say this, to illustrate what this is all about, where the way out of this situation is. Bankers are a miracle, soul dealers, you know, they create everything. We have these bankers here without a soul, until the last euro they're going to get out of this country and make us addicted thanks to these people smiling, they think they're great experts for this, and you'll be sure to be thrown out of those you're stretching like wrinkled paper. That's how everyone who worked with them went through a lot. Read a little book about how some banks in Latin America went, read how the Latin American dictators had gone, and they trusted the IMF, and you can see how Ceausescu had gone, and he was in debt with the IMF. Just enjoy it, work it, we care to challenge you to go out for a pay phone as often as possible, to celebrate your results, that after each of your discussions, citizens pretty much spit out their televisions as a sign of revolt because they don't agree with what you're saying, because it's coming from reality. We're going to pick you up a little bit for the replicas so that the more obvious it is. We're going to look at each member to take the opportunity, and we're going to have more documentation on the business of some banks, these relationships that exist, the groups that have been formed, that have closed the financial market, how some banks are extended independently of the law, which the bank at the Ministry of Finance has its own lobby group, which the bank has its own lobby group in the NBS so it's a chance to get some real information, which the bank is suggested to sell as soon as possible, because in some future period, it's going to change that NBS policy towards banks, so there's a risk of some obligations being activated and how to clean up this bank, how to get back the capital that was taken out of here through an airport-registered company, on some islands, by and how good and successful people. We just heard about that Lazarevic, and it's similar to Chad Jovanovic, with Vesic. No one mentions it without saying how much wealth there is, of course, all legally acquired, Kolesar, Janjušević. And we're going to get to the Agency for Rehabilitation, bankruptcy of bank liquidation, and we're going to come up with data on why there's no end to liquidations and bankruptcys, who manages these debt, or those assets, and you changed that last year. We must not forget any of this because we must tell the citizens that at the time of the prosperity that occurred on October 5th, these citizens are wrong if they feel that they live worse. This is what Mladjan Dinkic, Radovan Jelasic, Miroljub Labus, told them from abroad. You see for yourself, the worse the citizens of Serbia, the more praise they have for this government. This government boasts all the time. Thank you from the IMF. Of course the IMF is fine, they've secured their claims, they've provided a way to get the funds out of here and they're fine. The government and the governor of the NBS should primarily receive praise from citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Let them get commendation from the citizens of RS, and then be pleased. You boast that you are supported by someone from abroad, especially the IMF, who is the predecessor of the destruction of all states on the globe of the Earth. We're going to go to the polls and we're going to get all the answers whether it's true or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22776	Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. Here you go, Mr. Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22777	The governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Mr. Radovan Jelasic, whose name you mentioned so many times from this pay phone, asked me to sum up the answers that are on about 50 sides. He delivered it now. Here's the courier. Of course, he asked the question when would the National Bank of Serbia be able to have a legitimate representative in the Assembly, who would be able to answer the questions of MPs, because the National Bank has a desire to send its representatives to the benches here and to answer some of the questions asked by the government. I suppose it is necessary to change the Constitution to define the role of the National Bank of Serbia and hope that this assembly will do so as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22778	I'll answer right away. He asked the governor to appear and answer for this law. Of course, the moment the National Bank proposes the law. Since the government is a promoter, the government's sole authority can address the Assembly. That's the Rules of Procedure. The moment he's proposed, probably the next time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22779	The problem's in the next one. The National Bank of Serbia cannot propose any law, and that is the problem. The current Serbian Constitution does not give the right of the NBS, unlike other constitutions of the countries where central banks can be proposing, and it is natural to say the law on banks proposes either the finance ministry, as is now the case, was the central bank of a country. You know that in the former SFRY, the central bank could propose laws, it could do the same in SRJ, and now in Serbia it can't, and that's one exception in the world. I hope that by changing the Constitution it will be possible that the NBS can also make legal decisions regarding its action to propose. Of course, I don't know if I can present the entire material to you, but I chose the most important details, since the governor still has the right to respond to many of the things that have been put here. I don't think it'll last more than 50 minutes. So, as for the number of employees in the banking sector, this was a question that was raised, in 2000, 22,799 people worked in the banking sector of the Republic of Serbia in order to reduce the number to a minimum of 14,736 people after large banks were closed. However, as early as 2003, there was an increase in the number of employees to 22,319 people, in 2004, the number increased to 23,463 people, in order to reach record 24,920 people in September 2005. In other words, 2,000 more people work in Serbia's banking sector today, i.e. exactly 2,187 people more than in 2000. As for the number of operational units in the banking sector, in 2003 only 1,465 operational units, meaning central, branch, exposure was on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, in 2004, the number increased to 1,706, in order to reach 1,788 units in September this year. If we talk about the level of the new foreign savings collected in the banking sector, there were questions how much of it is on credit cards and how much on the new savings. Most of the waste on new savings. I can tell you that 200 times the savings now increased compared to the same period in 2000, when it was 20 million euros, and the latest data, as of 22 November this year, amounted to exactly two billion 95 million 253 thousand euros, which means that the total increase in savings in this year was only 666 million 367 thousand euros, and this is an exceptional growth compared to the previous period. The average daily change in 2005 is 2,962 euros and total for November 5,377. So, every month, citizens put an average of 5,400 euros each day at this time. Here's a summary of the dollar, but I don't want to keep you longer, and I'd like to move on to what the governor has asked me to tell you about the total credit rating to the state, to the non-state sector and to the banks. So on December 31st, 2003, total credit ratings to banks amounted to 242 billion dinars, to reach 479 billion this year on September 30th, which means total loans increased twice in these two years. As far as businesses are concerned, so I don't go to these details as much in dinars as in foreign exchanges, and yet the governor asked me to tell you, the companies had 136 billion dinars of approved loans in 2003, while the current flow of credit is 238.8 billion dinars. Credits granted to the population have been increased four times, from 28 billion 336 million on 31 December 2003 to 102 billion 179 million, which is the state of 30 September 2005. I think it would be very interesting to look at and what the structure of commercial banks look like to the non-monetary sector, so businesses and the population, say, in October of this year. We have 43 banks currently working in Serbia, and to see exactly how much anyone contributes to the country's economic development, here's a list of how these banks are placed: A bank from Belgrade has placed a billion 143 million; AIK Bank 15.826; Cepter Bank 2.308 (all these figures are in millions); Atlas Bank 4.498.8; Centrobank 4,800; Continental Bank 5.976; Credi Bank from Kragujevac 1.345.6; Delta Bank 34.495, EFG Eurobank 5.835; HVB Bank 24.179; Hypo Alpe Adria Bank 33.874; JUB Bank from Belgrade 8.517; Jugobanka Kosovska Mitrovica Banka 6,4498, Prisei Banka Sobanka banka Kosovo and Metohes Banka; Jumbes Banka Banka 13.217; Commercial Banka 33.246; Kosovo-metohic Banka Banka Banka Banka Banka Banka Banka Banka 7.12.2; N.2687.2; N. As you can see, the biggest loans are the Raiffeisen Bank, and behind it are the Commercial Bank and Delta Bank. These are banks that currently place the most funds in Serbia for different purposes. Just one more note, since I am the maximum of what the governor wanted to tell you, I don't know the difference between Mr. Bogdan Stokuća, Dimitar Janevsky, whom you mentioned, and I was answering questions about private persons and Mrs. Jorgenka Tabaković, whom I mentioned. I don't understand the meaning of your remarks. It's about private faces. I did not ask private questions, but you asked me questions about the esteemed Mr. Stokuća and the esteemed Mr. Dimitri Janevsky. I don't see any difference between these citizens. Also, Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic is not mentioned in private life, but related to the work of the National Corporation for the Insurance of Residential Credits, because, as you know, the Government of the Republic of Serbia approves subsidized housing loans to young people up to 45 years of age and those who are employed and are able to repay these cheap loans, as all is 0.1% of the annual interest. Unfortunately, one member of Mrs Tabakovic's family competed with the state, for state loans, for loans provided by our citizens' taxes, without meeting the condition the state had prescribed, so the falsified the document, which is why criminal charges were filed against members of this family. I mentioned it in context, asked the gentleman how we'd help Mr. Dmitry Janevsky, and I said that's what the police would do. How to help Bogdan Stokuqa, too, is a question for other competent authorities. I just mentioned here from the state business, about the name of one person. Of all possible demands, and there were about 450 of them, in only five cases we had a violation of the law, which is why the National Corporation was forced to file criminal charges against those who violated it, in accordance with the government's regulation. Some said they didn't have a house, they didn't have an apartment, and they asked for a subsidized loan from the state. Of course they couldn't win. In this case, it may be a minor offense, but it was still meant to wait six months for those six months to meet the conditions that the state had prescribed, rather than forging a confirmation of the length of the job, as it was done in the case of a member of Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic's family.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22780	Thank you for respecting the dignity of the congregation and for your efforts to answer the questions that have been given. Please, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic, and then, according to the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Jovanovic, the MP. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22781	Mr. Markovic, I was the first to report to the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22782	You got the first word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22783	Mr. Markovic, if I've won now, then please refrain and if you've already given me your word to allow me to speak instead of whispering here with the minister. I must say, first of all, to Mladjan Dinkic, only an unworthy man would mention in this context someone's family member. Jorgenka Tabakovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22784	May I ask you to quote me a member of the Rules of Procedure, after you have reported to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Sarovic, please be kind enough and tell me a member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22785	Mr. Markovic, you gave me your word and let me finish my presentation. You'll hear a member of the Rules of Procedure. So, I'm warning you not to interrupt me...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22786	Mr. Sarovic, since you have repeatedly disrupted the order of the session, I have to read it to you once more because the deputy secretary asked me to draw attention to those MPs who may have been under-informed or distracted by those who... Don't, it's not right. So, once again, the exact order of violations of the Rules of Procedure. The MP shall indicate which provision of the Rules of Procedure, in his opinion, is violated. So that's the first thing he does. If she was quoting, that's the second thing she does and explains, that's the third thing she does, which consists of an injury, with her being able to speak for the longest three minutes, which doesn't count the time it takes to quote. That's why I'm giving you your time back, please specify a member of the Rules of Procedure who's been injured. Then it doesn't matter if you define yourself to quote it or not, then please explain it, so we can react. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22787	Mr. Markovic, since you have now given me your word, you first violated the Rules of Procedure when you interrupted me, and of course you had no right to do so. Here, Mr. Markovic, I will now read to you, that is Article 100 of Article 1: "To the MP who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly gives his word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed. " (President): What he did. ) So, if I have come to you during the presentation of Minister Dinkic, then you have been obliged in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to give me the word immediately after he has completed his presentation. Item 2: "The People's MP is obliged to specify which provision of the Rules of Procedure is, in his opinion, injured, to quote and explain what the injury consists of, by being able to speak for the longest three minutes, without counting the time needed to quote. "So, Mr. Markovic, nowhere here says when I will specify in those three minutes which provision of the Rules of Procedure is violated. So that's my thing, the way I'm going to explain how there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure and you don't have discretionary authority to interfere. So that's just something I'm going to choose. So you made a mistake and hurt the Rules of Procedure when you interrupted me. The third thing, i.e. the third violation of the Rules of Procedure, is that you did not respect Article 27, and he says that the president of the National Assembly, among other things, is concerned about the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Well, then, you hurt Article 104 of Section 3, which says, "It's not allowed to use offensive expressions, nor is it to present facts and assessments relating to the private life of others. "This is where Minister Dinkic presented not facts, but the private life truths, which are allegedly related to the former minister, or to the minister from the former government of the Republic of Serbia, for Mrs Jorvanka Tabakovic, who was a minister and we are proud of what she did. There is no stain behind her, behind her work, no affair that characterizes you, your authority and Mladjan Dinkic. Only an dishonest man would thus mention Jorgenka Tabakovic and allegedly a member of her family for which she committed a certain crime - forgeries. If he wasn't a dishonest man, then at least he'd say who it was, so it could be proved that what he said was false. In this way, he presented the flat-rate accusations that absolutely cannot be answered, and he had nothing to do with today's debate either by Jorgenka Tabakovic, or by any member of her family, and this only speaks of your impatience and that you lose patience, so because you have nothing concrete to object to the members of the SRS and ministers appointed from the SRS, you serve such an unholy method. (President: Time. So, Mr. Markovic, since you obviously didn't understand and understand, I'm going to have to read you Article 100 of Article 2 again the last part of it, where it says - which doesn't count the time it takes to quote in these three minutes...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22788	That's right, since I've had that time for about a minute and a half, be kind, finish, don't hurt the dignity of the National Assembly, for the third time I'm warning you, Mr. Sarovic, I'm going to have to follow the Rules of Procedure. ...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22789	Mr. Markovic, don't interrupt me, Mr. Markovic, I've quoted four members of the Rules of Procedure. I've certainly done it for more than 30 seconds. So if you need to consult a stenogram or a video, then measure exactly how much time it takes for me to talk. If you want, we can talk differently. Here, now I'm gonna interrupt this exposure, if you think I'm out of time, so I'm gonna get back to you, and I'm gonna need you to answer me for the injury of these four members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22790	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Just to answer Mr. Sarovic, Miss Jovanovic. Please, therefore, as Mr Sarovic pointed out, to the MP who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly gives the floor immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker. So, I really ask that everyone respect Parliament's dignity and I don't believe that anyone believes that after the previous speaker, it was Minister Dinkic, I did not give a word to MP Nemanja Sarovic, on the contrary, and it is not correct to convince ourselves of something that might be a mirage. There was no speaker behind the pay phone in the meantime, and we can certainly see it, and it is not correct to mock the congregation, as if the congregation did not see who was behind the pay phone. Then, please, Article 104 once again, there are three attitudes, of course, not knowing who the persons mentioned are, I really don't know who those persons are, so that I can, of course, thank you, be kind, without throwing away, therefore, based on the presentation of the minister who said he was giving the data to the questions that were asked, I wasn't present when these questions were asked, I don't know if it was offensive or not offensive, some data was given and I couldn't get into their accuracy, and I certainly couldn't act in that sense by the attitude 3 that he said - it wasn't allowed to use offensive expressions, which was not either, as well as the facts and assessments relating to the private lives of others. I had no basis to conclude that these were data relating to the private life of other persons. I realized that data was given from a job description carried out by the finance minister, and I realized that it was the answer requested by the minister. If I'm wrong, I take responsibility, but I don't see it as a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Also, Article 27 is just as it says - she is concerned about the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which means, by doing the work envisaged by the Constitution and by chairing the meetings of the National Assembly, during the chairmanship, so when he chaires, he certainly does not when someone else is chairing, he takes care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, trying to, of course, apply an adequate member. In this regard, I also gave a warning when an MP is called to one member, and in doing so he violates another, because I have to keep an eye on, like anyone who is in this place and chaires, the overall spirit of the Rules of Procedure, and that is why, as Article 103 says, no one can interrupt the speaker, nor warn him, except the President of the National Assembly, in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure. The president of the National Assembly was doing just that, interrupting, giving notice, respecting all MPs, also giving notices, including what is available to the secretary or deputy secretary, who is on the left hand side, and those technical aids that the President of the Assembly has at his disposal, it's a time-table, it's this apparatus outside. Only in order, please, we have to respect the Rules of Procedure, the very moment Mr Krasic, therefore, in relation to that, I hope that you are satisfied with the answer, because Article 100 of the Rules of Procedure 4 - if, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains in the statement that the Rules of Procedure is injured, the National Assembly will decide without delay on this issue on the day of the vote. So, not that the MP, does not foresee this position, goes out and says by the Rules of Procedure whether he stayed on the claim or not, because then it would mean, of course, a violation of the Parliament's dignity, because the Assembly is able to accept a gesture that is said - I remain on the claim or do not remain on the claim, and of course there is no right to endanger the rights of other Members. As you know, in this particular case, according to the same Rules of Procedure, MP Natasa Jovanovic has reported that he speaks according to the Rules of Procedure and the obligations of the National Assembly, it is immediately after the speech of the previous speaker that I will have to do, and also, Mr Zoran Krasic reported to the Rules of Procedure after Ms Jovanovic, and I will have to give him the floor of the same Rules of Procedure when the previous speaker is finished, and that will be Ms Natasa Jovanovic. Of course, I'm asking if you're staying on the claim. Thank you. The assembly will plead. I also respect this people who say silence is a sign of confirmation. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic. You, Mr. Krasic, as an experienced and educated man, know very well that he can't write everything in acts. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22791	You've talked enough, shut up.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22792	Please, don't talk to the MPs like that, be kind, talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22793	Come on, shut up, you've talked a lot, let me explain to you how the business is, not that you're messing with us at 7:35 p.m., November 24th. Now, you keep your mouth shut, and I'm going to tell you that you've injured article 100, which you just quoted, item 4, Article 104 more times, and your hohstappler, thief and fraud, Minister of Finance, Mladjan Dinkic. We knew that he was a thief, a criminal, a thief, as Mrs. Radeta said yesterday, but that such a fraud, such a lowlife and a lowlife, we found out now, and it's a good thing that he's not in the O.R., and all Serbia needs to know that in addition to being a criminal and a thief, Minister Dinkic is a poor guy, a poor guy, all the worst there is in one man, there's nothing on him, not a shred of morality, not a shred of dignity. It's the worst thing, the bottom of Serbia could see. Why do I say that? I say that because I didn't need a courier, I was invited twice by Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic, a prominent member of the SRS and former Minister of Economy and Privatisation. Mr. Markovic, since you just said as President of the Assembly that you do not know who this lady is, you are a complete political dilettante for me, and you need to resign at this moment, if you do not know who Jorgenka Tabakovic is and if you do not know who the ministers were once in the government and MPs are calling in more in the National Assembly, when you could not even travel to see these members of your organisation entering here. Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic reacted and asked me to say that Minister Mladjan Dinkic is just a liar and a fraud. For what? Because on the spot, without an argument for everything we're talking about today, and we've been talking for months and years since he's been on prominent functions, he invented, trying to rock an honorable Serbian, wonderful mother, master of economy, a lady who in two years and eight months, with an average of 9.9, I'm talking about Mrs. Tabakovic, the Faculty of Economics, who mastered the shortest possible deadline, unlike him who was 19 years in assistant status. He was talking about Mrs. Tabakovic's older daughter. Otherwise, when you opened that question and gave the opportunity to talk about this honorable family, about this wonderful mother and wife, and above all an absolute expert, which Dinkic could never dream of being, which this young colleague of his knows very well, when it comes to the expertise and qualifications of Mrs Tabakovic, who primarily raised her children to be honest, raised them in the Serbian national spirit, because she was born in Kosovo and Metohija, taught them to be good students, to be honest people. Her older daughter, with an average of 9.8, as well as a mother, because "the splinter doesn't fall far from the stake" in this case, graduated from the Faculty of Economics, mastered as soon as possible and then, preferably after a competition published by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, applied for something called a loan for young people, because it is, as a young expert with such an average, a master of economic science. Of course, after getting the form, which is done by tens of thousands of people in Serbia, and even my little bit, you could see, some of you if they did, and they're less than 45 years old, and they haven't solved the housing issue, that's where they're looking for you all, the maltenes and the number of shoes you're wearing. If you look at what this application looks like, you could see that in the day, when a bank with which the Government of the Republic of Serbia, of course, signed a contract with that bank, the bank gives you time to supply certain data. At the moment when you can't deliver the information requested from the app, at the moment you're giving up or you're absolutely someone who can't compete for something, which was the case in what I'm talking about, not any fraud, no abuse by a young person, who was a brilliant student, who was a master of science and who was primarily the daughter of a woman like that, who worked fairly all her life, for the benefit of the people, served the state and the country at the most difficult times possible. Isn't that, Mr. Markovic, poor and miserable, and above all, your cynicism that doesn't contribute, how you often want to present it, that you are the one who is equal or the first among the equals, but are explicitly biased in situations where in the worst possible way, the officials and members of the SRS are muddled. He, imagine, ladies and gentlemen MPs, tried to identify people who, according to Mr Jojic and according to tax data and in fact, committed the worst possible abuses of official position, authority and fraud, with the situation that a girl, who is only the daughter of Jorvanka Tabakovic, and for two years could not get a job, was rejected because she had no opportunity to work. He's not a member of the G17, he's not a member of the parties in power, he's a proud and above all honest person, who failed, of course. And God will allow the state to care for such qualified and young experts, to exercise its possible right that only one paper did not allow and did not make any abuse. Since you're not ashamed, and above all, of those of you who support such a minister, to sit down and not protest such a lie, a disgusting lie that has been told, but it's not the first time. The best thing for him is to put his sock back on his head again, but to jump to "Laza Lazarevic" before he goes behind bars, where he belongs.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22794	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. If someone thinks that an injustice has been done defending this belief does other injustices - I don't know why you would insult anyone, Ms. Jovanovic, because of the fact that the President of Parliament clearly says - I don't know the person the minister spoke of in his presentation, and in this way I couldn't react. That's what the president of parliament said. It would be very incorrect that the data, which I don't even know if exist, whether they are true and who they refer to, and how the discussion came about and who asked the question -- that I am giving myself the right to pass the Rules of Procedure, to judge the accuracy of the data, would be the worst abuse. On the contrary, I am very correct in informing that impartiality was necessary because we simply do not know what it is. I don't know what this is about. The member you quoted has just obliged the president to react in this way. But I must ask you, if you claim, Miss Jovanovic, try to understand that one speaker, who is a minister of the government, cannot be trusted by word, only logically to ask ourselves -- how do you ask the chairman to immediately believe in data that is read as third-hand data, and yet react to them and yet challenge them, and that the president has no record of it, what would that look like? So it's just illogical. I hope you're satisfied with the answer. Here you go, Mr. Krasic, and then the MP Albianic, in the order you reported. (I Nemanja Sarovic, from the place: As you are not ashamed, I asked for a word after Krasic. I'm sorry, I didn't really notice you. You're trying, I don't notice you, but really, there are 30 MPs that sometimes come forward, that we're going in order to report to the Rules of Procedure that the president has established. Here you are, Mr Krasic, then MP Albianic, then MP Sarovic. At the same time, according to the Rules of Procedure, I warn you not to throw it away because I will have to apply order maintenance measures. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22795	I refer to the provision of Article 101 and the final position under Article 104. Mr. Markovic, I must tell you, in order for you to properly apply the provisions of Article 104, the final position is not necessary for you to know the person on which Mr. Dinkic presented some information. So there's no need for you to justify that you don't know who it is, what it is. This is called "the private life of other persons", it is not said "the private life of other persons known to the president of the National Assembly". This isn't about your knowledge, it's about being asked to understand the fact that the gentleman we're talking about mentioned some face outside the context of what's being discussed here. Now let me explain what this is about. We have a problem with Mladjan Dinkic, the National Assembly, buildings, institutions, this street and number. Mr. President, you may have been and haven't been yesterday, but to hear some facts. If you doubt that, you have a stenogram and check it out. In the absence of an appropriate argument for the SRS positions that we criticise some of the draft laws, Mladjan Dinkic, yesterday as the main argument for his defence, stated that he did so with his friend Tomislav Nikolic, that Tomislav Nikolic probably gave him a sock, that he was a good friend with Alexander Vukic, that he was an extremely good friend with Verica Radet, so after two minutes he had a knockout from this pay phone, verbal. In the end, he made an incident that made you take a break too, Mr. Markovic, noting that the answers to the questions where the money from Cyprus couldn't be won, because Bin Laden and Al-Qaeda did theirs, bombed, destroyed America. The highlight of all this is the continuity of Ustaska B92, who last night said that Tomislav Nikolic had been given an apartment from "Partizana", because some idiot took the phone book, so he sought Nikolic and Tomislav, and pulled some of his conclusions, one spy, Cija's agent, educated abroad, that Yugoslavia Ćosic, and his friend used the same means, this Mladjan Dinkic, when, in connection with the discussion of Mr Jojic and Mr Škrbić, about specific things, where people complained that they were damaged in the name of the business with the Post Office, which is well known to Minister Dinkic, for what he had the answers, puts into that story Jorgenko Tabaković and her daughter, knowing that they were causing such conflict, so the SRS would leave, because we have nothing to tell you when you were using such lies. For years, nothing but lies has attacked the SRS. Mr. President, you were obliged to, in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, warn, warn, or ask for our help to get Mladjan Dinkic out. And this individual who throws people's MPs, ladies from the SRS when they come out for this pay phone and explain. Negai Sarovic was throwing her away, too. What's the point of that throw? To disabling the National Assembly, this debate. I fully understand your position that you cannot find an adequate argument to respond to these attacks on this bill. Alim, please respect the dignity of this National Assembly. If you can't answer, you don't have to come out, shut up. If you already have a need to present some information about a fact that you think you need to answer, answer, but do not be rude to spread the subject with lies, counting on you to join Ustasha B92 and Yugoslavia's Cosic, who is apparently the entire Serbian auditorium caught lying. Stop that stuff already. Not you here, some similar journalists. They found my own brother, and I'm an only child. Who knows what else you'll find in the SRS, as the time for this election approaches. (President: Time. If that's your style, do it, but don't do it here. You work through your media. So you didn't need to know the name and the last name, because it said "another person", but you needed to warn that the minister's story had nothing to do with the question asked here by the minister, but wanted to turn the discussion. He's got Bin Laden some time, he's got Al-Qaeda, his third time, they're his fourth time, and then Toma's his friend, so Veronica's his friend, so he's his friend. If you want, find that argument. If that's how you defend your bill, that's how you try to keep most of it until you vote on the budget law, because that's what you're interested in, after that you don't care, anything else can fall and count, if the budget bill is passed, you have another year to swim. If that's your tactics, speak plainly, the SRS won't bother you with that. We've been talking about the failures of this law all day. We can pull back right now and get out, but we hope it's correct to explain all the amendments. As you can see, there's a pretty big philosophy in that "wipe" that explains who you are and what you are. Since I know that you will give that answer as you do, I ask you to decide in the day to vote on the National Assembly whether there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure in such a way that Mr Dinkic has misused this speaker to extend the argument for his quasi-defense law to some persons who have nothing to do with this law, nor with the applicant of the amendment, or with the Government, or with anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22796	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Before you begin, Mr. Albianic, please be patient. It's not an answer, it's a question of mutual respect. We need to distinguish some things. Of course it's not possible, that's why I just called in your experience, it's not possible to solve everything by regulation. So I repeat again, at the time when the name and last name of several people were mentioned and it was said to be mentioned on the basis of official records, and based on the questions that were asked, how do you think someone who had not been in the O.R. before, doesn't know what it was about, can assume that they're talking offensively about a person. Also, may I ask you a question, so we can all be clear. I've allowed you six and a half minutes, they don't expect the MPs to get up now and say you hurt the Rules of Procedure, which you didn't interrupt Mr Krasic in the third minute. Because I respect that you say what you want, and in that respect, I didn't react when you mentioned one name and name, and you presented the facts of private life, that it was a face, we're going to look at a stenogram, snotty, like this, like that. Imagine if I broke up and said don't bring it up. That's not the point. The point is, I think it's more important, in mutual relations and dignity. Last night when I heard about this kind of insubordination, that one of the MPs, for me, was, first of all, that, the prominent MPs of the Serbian National Assembly, tried to plant themselves, extremely incorrectly, in the last part of a show, in some question, I did not respond to the Rules of Procedure, but turned the phone, got that MP you were talking about, Mr Nikolic, and I told him that I was appalled that something like that had happened. Know that I am appalled as President of the Assembly, and whenever you need it, I will say it publicly, because people have to speak to each other with dignity and respect the functions chosen by citizens, and it is impossible to correct any injustice everywhere. I repeat again, I think it is extremely incorrect to wrong someone because there is no information. Whatever you think, no, I don't know the person you're talking about, a huge number of people I don't know, as I suppose a large number of you don't know. That is no reason to abuse the Rules of Procedure, to speak offensively to one another, when we are here to do one job and the Rules of Procedure should only help us to do so, not to challenge that debate that does not contribute to the work that we do. Here you go, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22797	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advertising the violation of Rules of Procedure of Rule 104. Mr. President, when you say we respect the dignity of the National Assembly, it's a different understanding here. So, the parliamentary majority understands essentially, and thinks that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly should be respected, that's how we treat the dictionary, and that's how we treat this high house. However, it is obvious that this does not apply to the SRS. If you in one of the Rules of Procedure have a violation of the Rules of Procedure on several occasions, I would like to start applying that Rules of Procedure anyway. That Mr Krasic does not speak for seven minutes, and now I have the opportunity as a member of the ruling majority to speak for three minutes. It's not the same. And that some MPs say the following words: poor guy, poor guy, criminal, thief, bottom bottom bottom, liar, fraud, spy, throw out someone, Ustasha TV, etc. It is not like this high house, no matter what the MP refers to. When a man talks about another in such a way, bringing out such qualifications, he actually speaks to himself in the mirror. That's what Serbian citizens should know. And more they need to know. They need to know that the amendments here are "expect." That there's been some possible criticism of the law that hasn't happened, but that now people want this to turn into our mutual debate. I won't answer my word again. I expect insults, no problem, I won't answer for word from the Rules of Procedure anymore, but it's obvious that our intention is now to enter into the controversy of another species, to talk about something that doesn't matter at this point, but to get caught up in that trap of mutual accusations and this level of dictionaries. That's not gonna happen in my case. I hope that from now on we will respect the Rules of Procedure, as I ask the question, and it seems that the cause was, we hear about the Minister of Certain Qualifications, and someone has applied for a loan in that particular ministry, within the jurisdiction of that ministry. Is there any morals or reason for those stories? I'm not the one who applied for that kind of loan. I haven't talked about some people who were getting, and I'm still not going to mention the names of those who got free, apartments in some time, and today they're criticising us who would be here in a normal way to settle the housing loan that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has made possible for people to solve the housing issue. Be very dignified. I'd like the Assembly to move on to the agenda now. It's been three minutes, and I thank you, and I won't answer my word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22798	Thank you, Mr. Albianic. I say once again, I think it's important that we respect the Rules of Procedure outside this room, and I showed that example earlier. So, in no way do we bring in tones from private life. Because of that, I guess we all agree on that and that we're ready to consult on it. On the basis of Article 98, I'm giving a five-minute break, just to consult on it, because I think it's important that we all have a good session. Thank you very much. At exactly 8:08 p.m., we'll continue. [[After break – 20.15.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just a few more moments for their colleagues to enter, and we'll proceed after the break. I hope we'll respect the spirit of what we talked about before we interrupt the session. Yes, to the Ministry's representatives to come in, of course. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Nemanja Sarovic, and then the People's MP Vjerica Radet reported on the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22800	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Markovic, if you are already talking about some correctness, then I suppose it is essential that you, as the President of the National Assembly or as the first among the equal, behave correctly, and correct conduct, Mr. Markovic, implies that you at least treat everyone equally. You have, on several occasions and tonight, and practically countless times before that before that, been incorrect towards the SRS parliamentary group and myself personally. I don't think it's really right for you, even though I just got to the office a little bit earlier so you wouldn't give me your word. You said you didn't notice me, but instead you gave your party colleague, Mr. Albianić, a word to Mr. Albianić, so that when I told you that you were not ashamed to do what you were doing, you would have warned because I was throwing it away. Mr. Markovic, if you already want to respect the Rules of Procedure, then it would be your turn to fulfill the promise you made long ago, so that at the time when it is proven that you have injured the Rules of Procedure you resign. So, when you explained my previous reference to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you asked me to throw you out of the place whether I was satisfied with the answer or not. Paragraph 4 of Article 100 states that if, following an explanation by the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains on the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will decide without delay on the issue on the day of the vote. Article 102 says no one should approach the speaker until the president of the National Assembly allows it. That's not what I wanted. And no one can speak at a session of the National Assembly before asking and receiving a word from the president of the National Assembly. You, Mr. Markovic, have not given me your word and have not allowed me to make clear, in accordance with Article 100(4), whether or not I am satisfied with the explanation that you have given for my pointing to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Furthermore, you had previously interrupted me as I explained that the injured member was 100, and you had no right to do so, because what you quoted was said, but you obviously did not understand correctly, Article 103(2), that no one could interrupt the speaker, nor warn him, except the president of the National Assembly, in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure. The cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure are in article 106, which states that the notice is given to the MP who approached the speaker without the permission of the National Assembly President, which I certainly did not do, who spoke before he asked and received his word, which I also did, which, despite the warning of the National Assembly President, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda, which I did not do. If a speaker interrupts or throws, or interferes with speakers or otherwise endangers freedom of speech, which I did not do, Mr Dinkic and his associates, if he presents the facts and assessments relating to the private life of others, which I also did, but also did, but also did, Mr Dinkic and his associates, if he uses curses and offensive expressions, which I did not do, and the 6th point, if other proceedings violate order at the session or acts against the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, which I certainly did not do. So, Mr. Markovic, you've got to stop that excitement of yours a little bit, to wait until I can explain to the end how, in my opinion, the injured Rules of Procedure. I'm not saying, maybe I'll be right sometime, maybe I won't be...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22801	Just a moment, Mr. Sarovic, I warn you, according to Article 104(3), that you are not talking about the private life of other persons, and please, since I have warned you several times already, don't talk about my excitement, that's what Article 104 of Article 3 prohibits you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22802	Mr Markovic, here are the representatives of the parliamentary groups who make up the ruling majority. So I won't really waste any more time or nerves on it, but so much, Mr. Markovic, here's Mr. Aligrudic laughing, about your correctness. I must warn you, Mr. Markovic, that when you were answering me whether I was right or not, you were acting extremely incorrectly. I never claimed for a moment that between Mr Dinkic's presentation and my presentation, anyone had received a word, but I claimed to Mr Markovic that you should have given me the word immediately after his final presentation, and you should not have discussed anything with the other MPs in the O.R. (President: Time. ) So, you've been pretending not to see me, as you've just pretended not to see me, so Mr. Markovic here to be correct, I'm going to report back to the Rules of Procedure, because you don't want to deny me the time I spend quoting, and you don't want to respect the fact that more members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured, and that I should get more time to explain it accordingly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22803	So I'm really not in a position to make up the Rules of Procedure and put it together like this. Once again, I will have to apply the Rules of Procedure consistently. Having called on several members in his presentation, the MP said among other things that the President of the National Assembly had violated the Rules of Procedure, because he interrupted him on the basis of article 2 of Article 103, which says - no one can interrupt the speaker, nor warn him, except the President of the National Assembly, in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure. The President of the Assembly did so, not by any means referring to Article 106, and I now give you a warning about the deception of the National Assembly, because you did not receive any notice, and you said that I was interrupting you by article 106, and then you counted that a member of 106 did not foresee it. Article 106 does not speak at all about interruption and warning, it speaks of warnings and conditions to be met in order for the president to give notice. There's no need to quote again, because I respect dignity and I know that you all have Rules of Procedure at your disposal, you know. Therefore, Article 106 refers to a reminder. National MP Nemanja Sarovic has not received any warning until a moment ago, and I really pray once again, as in the course of the previous speech, that we all show self-respect and dignity to each other. Otherwise, it is not possible to maintain the correctness of doing our job on the basis of the Rules of Procedure alone. I hope you are pleased with the answer this time, because I do not wish to violate the Rules of Procedure, and as I just said, which in article 100 says - if and after the explanation, Article 4, the President of the National Assembly, the MP, remains on the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will decide without delay on this issue in the day of the vote. Once again we have said, Article 104 says in attitude 2 - People’s MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. I respect the capacity of MPs, as almost all MPs do, to ask the President of the Assembly whether they are satisfied with the answer, say yes or no. They don't get it, because throwing someone at a pay phone is a distraction when MPs are getting it, and they're not answering the question of a president who wants to respect the Rules of Procedure. So, I can't disrespect the other MPs or MPs I address, so I can't assume that he's not capable of giving a gesture, if he accidentally coughed, so he can't say, or by word, to confirm that he accepts or accepts. Also, a large number of MPs, and I thank them, at the end of their presentation, say they will not be satisfied with the answer in advance, and it is mine to respect and realize it, and in this way I could not respect anything, while I still hurt the MPs. Of course, I'm sorry I didn't notice you, and I'm really doing everything, and the fact is, and I'm really sorry, I really don't often notice you, I'm sorry. We'll try to make it right. If you're satisfied. You didn't or did you? So the MP is not pleased. I can't break the Rules of Procedure, I have to give my word to Mrs. Verity Radetti. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22804	According to the Rules of Procedure, Articles 101, 104 and 105. A member of the SRS for Mladjan Dinkic reported earlier as a spokesman for Ustasha TV B92 and, among other things, said that if representatives of the SRS for Mladjan Dinkic say that the thief, scum, hohstappler and other attributes that go by the name of Mladjan Dinkic, it is not correct that members of the SRS testicles apply for loans to young people in Serbia. Indeed, until a moment ago, I didn't know it was applied for loans to Mirosnka Dinkic, Mladjan's mother, and I thought it was some state money, some banks' money. This was amazing and went undetected, the president did not react by article 101 and he had to, because the MP had spoken falsely. Furthermore, we heard about Mladjan Dinkic's certain qualifications from Korać, Velja Ilic, and it seems to me that Mladjan Dinkic is either a masochist or is here to make every evening before the end of the day a crowd of SRS MPs stop talking about what's on the agenda. All day long, we've been talking about a bill of banks, regardless of what our amendments are to the government and our relationship to the government and its behaviour against the National Assembly. So it was purely professional to discuss the Bill's amendment and then Mladjan Dinkic suddenly appeared, went out, went in, came in, and then he came here at one point, presented himself as a courier, Radovan Jelasic, began to read something Jelasic gave him. Now, let's just go back to the democratic robbery of Serbia and about what your friend Vlahovic is or what that journalist's name is called, Djordjevic, well, and there's a lot we've read about these funds that are reportedly missing in Cyprus, so Mladjan Dinkic tells us yesterday that the money is now being stopped by Al-Qaeda. Today he said something much worse, that we must ask for that money in The Hague because that money belongs to someone who is tied to The Hague tribunal. I am now asking Mladjan Dinkic to tell us if it is Mladjan Dinkic and the government of Vojislav Kostunica or that of previous Zivkovic and Djindjic, when Americans announced they would no longer finance The Hague tribunal, the money of Serbia was financed by The Hague tribunal. Is it possible that the money is in Carla del Ponte's personal account and whether her signature was paid on the indictment against Professor Vojislav Seselj, written by Djindjic, Covic and Svilanovic? So we're asking for those explanations from Mladjan Dinkic. As for leaving in search of these funds, I must inform the public that Mladjan Dinkic was looking for those money to accompany certain BIA people. Also, it remained unclear whether Mladjan Dinkic was followed by certain BIA people because he was not trusted, and of course, I suppose we are assuming it was, or something to do with this sequel that Mladjan Dinkic was talking about. So we insist that you tell us where 360 million marks are, whether you gave them to Karli del Ponte or, without knowledge, you funded the UN tribunal without the knowledge of Serbia's citizens. You announced that this morning.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22805	Thank you very much, Mrs. Radeta. Since Mr Aligrudic, who first reported to the Rules of Procedure, is currently not in the O.R., this means that the next one that appeared in the Rules of Procedure, which is MP Nemanja Sarovic, has a word. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22806	Mr. Markovic, I really must admit that I am not at all surprised by your behavior. If you think you're gonna stop me from saying anything from this pay phone, by giving me a warning, then you're wrong. It's a small price, Mr. Markovic, 3,000 dinars for Serbia to see what your real face is like. That's the price I'm really willing to pay. You can give me a warning of your own free will. But, Mr. Markovic, I warn you that on that occasion you broke the Rules of Procedure again. During my presentation, I have not offended anyone in this room or outside of it with a single word. The fact that you can't stand what I'm saying and what pains you is your problem, Mr. Markovic, and now you can say again that I'm making private facts out of your life if you want to humiliate this whole congregation and give me another warning. Of course, I'm not complaining. In order not to remain contentious, of course, I did not deceive this congregation as you say, you deceived her, Mr. Markovic. Check the stenogram. Because you said that I deceived the National Assembly of you tomorrow morning, so much I give you time, I expect an apology. You said that I had deceived the congregation by saying that I was being warned about something in article 106. No, Mr. Markovic, I read Article 103, and point 2 is that no one can interrupt the speaker or warn him, except for the National Assembly president, in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure. Then, he said that the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure were listed in Rule 106, and then read Article 106. So, what you said, I didn't do for a moment. Next thing you know, I don't want to talk to you, tell you whether I'm satisfied or not. Mr. Markovic, I am a MP as well as you, and I have the same right as you to address, not only all MPs, but also the public. So, don't think that you have any universal right to talk about that pay phone, which you keep abuse, whatever you think of, and that you can make comments like they come to mind. If you have anything to say, which isn't just about holding a session, then go ahead, Mr. Markovic, have enough courage and you have to answer your word, so like any other MP, come out for this pay phone and say what's on your mind. Don't abuse your position as National Assembly President anymore, comment on what's not your job. So, I will never plead from the bench whether or not I am satisfied with the explanation, but I will give my right to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to go out for a pay phone, and to make it clear to everyone, that everyone can hear, say whether or not I am satisfied with the answer, always use it. I ask you to answer me, have you now respected Article 27, Article 104, Article 103 and Article 106, because I claim that none of these points, which are a condition to give me a warning, which are numbered in Article 106, have I not done. To make it clear to the public, because I know that you are clear and that you have done this for some other reason, and not because you are convinced that I have violated the Rules of Procedure, I will once again, have the right to quote the Rules of Procedure, so let the Serbian public judge whether you were right when you took these 3,000 dinars away from me by giving me a warning. Article 106 says - a reminder is given to the MP who approached the speaker without the permission of the National Assembly president, who speaks before he has asked and received a word, who, despite warning the president of the National Assembly, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda, if he interrupts the speaker in his presentation or throws it away, or threatens the speaker in another way, or threatens freedom of speech. Where it presents facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons, if it uses swearing and offensive expressions and if other proceedings violates the order of the sitting or acts contrary to the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. Mr. Markovic, I have one more thing to tell you, I really have enough nerve, the more rigorous you are treating me and the MP group of the SRS, that my willingness to explain to you the true meaning of all the rules of the Rules of Procedure will be greater. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22807	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. So, I would not in any way violate the Rules of Procedure, so that I would hurt the MPs and speak without respect, and that something they heard several times again I read. But certainly, Article 106 speaks of a warning, and according to it a reminder was given to the People's Messenger. And on that occasion, it was also found that, in the previous presentation, the MP claimed that the president had interrupted him in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure, which referred to Article 106, and that the president had denied it and said that he had interrupted it on the basis of Article 104, because only the president could interrupt the speaker. I don't want to say it again, because I respect the fact that most of you, I hope, know the Rules of Procedure well. So, I realize that, of course, I didn't hurt my ankle. 100, 103, 104 and 106, and I particularly warn of the last indent of the first position of Members 106, because in previous statements you could hear that one part of the MPs considered their right to be violated, in such a way that the President does not strictly adhere to the Rules of Procedure in the sense that he interrupts the speakers exactly in a second, that you are extending, and of course I have to keep an eye on everything, as does anyone who presides from this place. According to Article 100 of Article 4 following this explanation, I ask, and by respecting Article 104 of Article 2 of all MPs, respecting their dignity under Article 1 and their ability to understand the answer to the question, are you satisfied with this explanation, Mr. Sarovic? I can't hear confirmation. I don't think you're happy, so the Assembly will decide without a search on the issue on the day of the vote. I thank everyone, and now, according to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Nemanja Sarovic has answered, and I must say that, since it has been clearly pointed out to the breach of the Rules of Procedure in several cases, and the President has given the answer by keeping order at the session, I will have to consider, on the basis of the demands of the MPs who came out here for a payphone, and also the head of a parliamentary group, and I must take care of everyone, that this is a violation of the dignity and a disturbance of the order of the session if there is abuse and persistent insistence that the same MPs appear in the same attitudes, although the answer is given and only the Assembly has the right, because it does not come to the president to interpret any answers, but will allow the Assembly to decide on that in the day of voting. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22808	I thank you, Mr. Markovic, but I really don't know which member of the Rules of Procedure that empowers you to assume what I might be talking about. So, in my opinion, this performance of yours has injured Article 27. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which it says - the President of the National Assembly is doing the work provided for in the Constitution, chairing the meetings of the National Assembly, taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, taking care of the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies of the National Assembly and other tasks provided for in the law and this Rules of Procedure. Nowhere in the Rules of Procedure, and I have read it very carefully several times, it does not say that the president of the National Assembly predicts what MPs might talk about when they report to indicate some violation of the Rules of Procedure, and that it will be a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. Another injury, Mr. Markovic, which you also did, which is, you hurt a member of 87th and you misinformed the National Assembly and Minister Dinkic when you told him that there is no possibility that the Governor of the National Bank should address the National Assembly, because that possibility exists only for whoever is the legislator, so when it is the National Bank, and the National Bank cannot be the legislator, and you should know this Rules of Procedure, because you were formally the Proposer of this text of the Rules of Procedure, and you are now demonstrating the opposite, or you do not know its provisions. So I was forced, I did not want to teach you, so I will read to you, Mr Markovic, a member of 87, who says - at the National Assembly meetings, next to the MPs, the members of the government, the authorised representatives of the other legislators and the secretary of the Republic Secretariat for legislation, as well as the other persons who call the President of the National Assembly. So, Mr Markovic, if you have already been addressed by the governor of the National Bank, with a great desire to address the MPs, and if the dignity of the National Assembly and the dignity of the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been compromised, by the governor sending by courier any documents read here in front of MPs in the National Assembly, then you have no right to deceive both the public and the MPs and the Minister Dinkic that there is no possibility, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to address the Governor of the National Bank here. If, Mr. Markovic, you have any honor, and I think it is now obvious that you have violated this provision of the Rules of Procedure, then go ahead and do as you claim, resign nicely, if not, and I am at your disposal, Mr. Markovic, please continue your violation of the Rules of Procedure. Stand side by side with Natasha Micic, give me one more warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22809	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Of course, article 87 reads, "The National Assembly meetings, alongside the MPs, are attended by members of the government, by authorised representatives of other legislators and by the secretary of the Republic Secretariat of legislation, as well as by other persons who are invited by the President of the National Assembly." And here are many who were invited by the president of the National Assembly to attend each session. It is those who belong to the competent ministry, and the government in its memo decides who will be authorized in front of the law and it cannot be the governor of the National Bank. So, and when he was invited, the governor of the National Bank, he could participate here as an assistant minister who was called by the President of the Assembly and was unable to speak, so I was obliged to inform the Minister. And of course there are other members of the law that regulate it when who can turn around. For example, the secretary of the Republic Secretariat of legislation, in a member who defines it, is said to speak only in the event that a special letter by the Government indicated that he participated in the draft law on the agenda, and in all other cases, which has already happened, the secretary of the Republic Secretariat for legislation is present here at the invitation of the President, but in these other cases he cannot speak. I hope you're satisfied with the explanation. No, thank you. That is what the congregation will declare. I owe you an explanation, I think the MP has drawn attention to Article 106, but it's clearly interpreted, so we won't interpret it twice. The issue of psychicity, not a matter of psychicity, the president under Article 27 must manage the Assembly and explain in this context how it will manage the Assembly. And I wouldn't want to insult the MPs, and everyone who's ever been in charge knows that handling implies a clear plan, an explanation, an appeal to the law about how you're going to work, so I warned everyone who might want to threaten the dignity of the National Assembly that I would sanction it. So it was my obligation under Article 27. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22810	Mr. Markovic, you're treating me extremely incorrectly again. You gave me your word twice, and then you said, wait a little longer. So, Mr. Markovic, I'm very patient and I'm waiting until you give me your word, but when you give me your word, please let me, like everyone else, speak to the MPs. Mr. Markovic, I think you've really hurt the dignity of the National Assembly with this kind of explanation. I don't think there's any need for you to warn anyone that you might possibly be able to harm dignity to warn you that you will act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. That, Mr. Markovic, is your obligation and you cannot decide whether or not you will. You can't treat someone and you can't treat someone. So what has been established by the imperative provisions of this Rules of Procedure, it does not give you the right to apply when you wish, so you must. If, by your knowledge, there is someone who may be putting this National Assembly at risk by his behaviour, then what you need to do is basically what you need to do, I think it's Article 228, to give us information about it because it's certainly of great importance for our work and to appoint that person. Furthermore, as for the 87th member himself, he says, you read it once, I will allow myself, I have the right to do business, to read once more: "The National Assembly meetings, alongside the MPs, are attended by members of the Government, by authorised representatives of other legislators and by the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat, as well as by other persons who are called by the President of the National Assembly." So this separates the categories of participants in the work of the National Assembly session. So the first is the MPs, the second members of the government, the third representatives of the other legislators and the secretary of the Republic Secretariat for legislation and the fourth category is the second person to be called by the president of the National Assembly. Someone doesn't have to be governor of the National Bank for you to invite him. You can call anyone. You can call the Patriarch of the Serbian Orthodox Church, you can invite some other church dignitaries, you can call an ordinary worker, anyone if you think to call. He is right, Mr. Markovic, to participate in the debate, in the work of the National Assembly. He only participates in the work by speech and only by going out for this pay phone. It is not possible to participate in the work of the National Assembly by sitting in a gallery. So, Mr Markovic, the Rules of Procedure give you the right to not only invite those who are authorised by the motions or members of the Government who are designated by the Government to be representatives of individual laws or MPs who, therefore, are themselves and by their own right to function. You have a standard, a blank norm, based on which you can invite anyone to take part in this session. So you could call the governor and anyone else. So, Mr. Markovic, you've had business opportunities. But, Mr. Markovic, this is what Serbia is looking at and this will remain recorded. Don't think this way you'll be able to stop anything. There were others before you, Mr. Markovic. He was sitting there and Mr. Martian thought he was strong and that his time would last forever. Mrs. Natasa Micic sat there and was also a very ossion, but long ago, Mr. Markovic, our people said "no one burned until dawn".
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22811	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. First, Article 228, which you have called upon, allows what you have just quoted to be found in a book, because Article 228 reads: "The National MP is allowed to use libraries and documentation to work in the National Assembly. The MP has the right to use the premises at his disposal, for work and for meetings with citizens, in accordance with the rules on internal order in the National Assembly." It was probably a question of deconcentration, I guess it's certainly not that member. But when it comes to the debate, I don't want to violate the Rules of Procedure, because MPs wouldn't allow it. Please, there's one session present, and there's one debate. The debate is regulated entirely by another member, Article 93, and talks about how they are presented first after the opening of the search, in which order they receive the word. The draft act, i.e. the authorised representative of the group of motionaries, gets the word when requested and I replied to Mr Dinkic. If he were governor of the act, he could be part of the work. Otherwise, you come to Item 2 where you list who can get the word, and says, "The Prime Minister and the members of the government get the word when they ask for it and do not refer to them as a restriction on the duration of the exposure. The secretary of the Republic Secretariat of legislation has the same rights as the members of the government, but only when the National Assembly is reviewing the draft law prepared for the government by the Republic Secretariat for legislation, which is specifically notified by the Government to the National Assembly." That's what I turned my attention to when I gave my notice to the minister and when I reminded myself of those who were distracted by the mind that the issue of the possibility of conversion was regulated. It is not possible and I know that you are all pleased that it is so, because it is possible to hold order at the session, it is not possible that those invited by the president to attend the session, that they can and can address. It's regulated by another member, and I hope it's a mistake, and you're satisfied with the clarification. Thank you. The 33rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The government has not accepted this amendment. Here you go, Mr. Koprivica, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22812	Dear People's MPs, we have before us a bill on banks. It is an extremely bad legal project for which the SRS has major objections. Namely, this law is, above all, against the highest act of our country, and at the same time contrary to many other system laws, such as the Law on Economic Society and the Law on General Administrative Procedure, as well as the Law on Executive Procedure. Many members of this law are inaccurate, vague, and I would say inapplicable. Practically, if you pass this law, I guarantee that this law will be out of the country's legal system. One of the main remarks of the SRS, if this law is passed, will be that the banks will not be equal. So, like my other colleagues and colleagues from the SRS, I filed an amendment, but this time on Article 33. The bill of law, by proposing that this member be deleted. Namely, this member speaks of the risks of the bank's exposure. The same member, like many others, is confused, inaccurate, vague, and inapplicable, so for these reasons I suggested eradicating him. The National Assembly, as the largest body and as a high home, should not be a voting machine of very bad laws submitted by the promoter. One logical question arises - why did you, gentlemen of the Ministry, submit this bill one or two hours before the hearing? Most likely because you fear criticism, primarily the SRS and its MPs, that they would not have time to prepare for this law. However, as you can see, the MPs of the SRS speak very constructively about this law. Gentlemen of the People and you who rule, these are voices of reason and you should respect them. These laws of yours, 70% of them, I tell you as a lawyer, are already not applied, and that is also the practice of many courts and the Supreme Court of Serbia. So over 80% of the laws you've passed are not applicable. Believe me, these trustees of yours from Brussels, who dictate these laws to you, will ask you, if they haven't already asked you, Mr. President, why don't you apply them. It's just that we Serbian radicals keep warning about it, and more than once, and it's very well-intentioned, not exactly what you think the SRS is doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22813	Mr. Koprivica, why aren't they applied, is it required to respond immediately? It's not. Here you are, MP Zoran Krasic, then MP of the people Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22814	This has always been in our banking system, except now a new termology has been applied, "not necks but necks." Now that's a neck, it's in Basel, allegedly made up and codified as some international standard applied in banking business. If it wasn't for this term, then there would have to be other relevant provisions that regulate bank placements, and there are limits on how much one person can owe to the bank. Here it is now said in reverse order, that the bank may have a claim to one person or group of connected persons and the basis for which this claim arises, which is credit, investment in debt securities of value, equity stakes, etc. It's been so far, it's just a different formula. It is said here that the bank's high exposure to one person or to a group of related persons is at least 10% of the bank's capital. If it is the minimum, core capital of the bank after the founding of 10m euros, 10% can claim from the banking business, a million euros, according to one person. It's easy to calculate. Then another category was given, where it could be 25%, and then the individual person associated with the bank must not exceed 5% of the capital, and then persons connected to the bank up to 20% of the capital and the last position of this member says the NBS prescribes the sum of all large exposures of the bank that cannot be less than 400% or more than 800% of the bank's capital. If we start with that minimum capital, it's 40m euros, up to 80m euros. Here we come to the true definition of the bank, which is a multiplier of money, which forms money, with a small potential emitting securities of value, approves loans and thus, without cover, enters the business, and out of that business draws interest, that is, extracts its profits. Why does the SRS object when it comes to this member? I think there's a better solution in the existing Banks and Financial Organizations Act. Why? It is given in the existing law as a restriction that is bound by the bank and which is controlled by the NBS when it comes to the bank, it controls investments, bank placements according to one person, a group of persons and persons associated with the bank in some way, and here you put it as a risk, not as something that is a ban. When it is added to that the discretionary right of the governor, who writes to speak here to the minister to defend this law, then you just confirm that our fundamental thesis that this law you've purposed could look a lot better if there are only two or three members in which Tsarevice is being negotiated, closing the financial market, controlling the banking system, deciding who lives, who goes bankrupt, who is going to be liquidated. You see, what's in the explanation - the EU directive, the Basel Committee, is here said, and that's a bad translation, for the control of banks, and it means in the original text for the capital of banks, as a minimum standard. You've translated it all here, according to some terminology of neighbouring states, as risks of business. You've changed something to allow the governor of the NBS to carry out his will. There's no transmission, so if there's no transmission, then there's no assembly, Mr. President. It is one of the basic principles that applies in the work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22815	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. I've been informed there's a direct transmission on one channel from 21.00 to 22.30 and a warrant has been given to prepare a delayed transmission. Because I would not want to hurt the dignity of the National Assembly and that MPs are now interrupting their debate, the moment that, right after the whole day of the debate, further arguments are in order. It's not right. Of course, the public of work will be provided, not for the first time, how many times I reacted, under Article 173 paragraphs 1 and 2. Thank you. We have two minutes left for this amendment for the SRS parliamentary group. Will that be enough for you, Mr. Sarovic? National MP Nemanja Sarovic, on the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22816	Mr. Markovic, you really... (Zoran Krasic, from the post: Which member? )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22817	The public of work is regulated, thank you, Mr. Sarovic, for having an understanding for MP Krasic. It's not funny, this is very correct. Article 173 speaks of the public of work says - National Assembly sessions and its committees are public. Sessions of the National Assembly and its committees may be closed to the public, etc. It is a question that would be said to be closed, however, this session is being recorded and will be broadcast. You know how the delayed transmission goes. I can withdraw my warrant, so we can take a break until conditions are established for direct transmission. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: No, but to continue tomorrow at 10.) Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22818	Mr. Markovic, it's not about understanding for Mr. Krasic, it's about understanding for you. I must say, you're treating me incorrectly again. This time you gave me your word three times, and then you made it impossible for me to speak to the MPs of the people. I guess you think you're gonna disrupt my concentration that way or something, but I can assure you you won't. Mr. Markovicu, the institution of delayed transmission reminds us of the time when the Socialists, during direct transmissions, when speakers who were not at their will, were trying to cover and hide it from the people by commenting there from the RTS boxing. You can leave this somewhere else at 2:00 or 3:00 in the morning, but you know what a direct transmission is. Also, Mr. Markovic, I must warn you that there is another problem. There is another rule in this assembly, which you are now violating, which I will warn you about, which is that there is a mandatory discussion by the government's authorised representative, which in this case is Mr Dinkic, and at this point no one is present. I ask you not to count this time that I have now spent, as you should not count on the time Mr Krasic spent, nor Mr Koprivica, because it is extremely incorrect for the minister to attend here when some MPs are speaking, not to attend when others are, that he assesses what is important, what is not important. He insulted us here, talked about things that aren't on the agenda, spent time, both ours, and ours, and the time of Serbian citizens, and now he must have fallen asleep and went somewhere else. Mr. Markovic, I demand that you, until Mr. Dinkic's presence is secured, give a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22819	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. I'll accept your suggestion, Mr. Krassic, of course. So, I'm taking a break until there are technical conditions for direct transmission, although the Rules of Procedure are not talking about any direct transmission but only about the public of work, but precisely thanks to what I just heard, which is that the president of the assembly in the earlier period, I really didn't follow it, he used to interrupt the session when MPs were telling him that he didn't want to. I may be taking a little abuse right now, but since the MPs who are willing to speak to me, I would allow it to be in direct transmission. So, break to 10.35 hours. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: So tomorrow at 10.35.) Please, Mr. Krassic, you're right, you're the first speaker. So, as I'm pointing to this timeline and just now, 10.35 per time, or 22.35 per time count. Just a notice for MPs tracking the transmission through the internal channel. The beginning of the session will move by 22.50, because only then will the conditions for transmission be created. [[After break – 23:00]] We continue to work after technical conditions for transmission have been obtained. We have completed the amendment debate on a member of the 33rd parliamentary group. Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarian Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 34th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22821	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliament Club, I have submitted an amendment to Article 34. A bill on banks, which states that this member should be deleted. Reason: The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should not be a voting machine in office of G17 and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The proposed law on banks should undermine all abuses of Mladjan Dinkic and his friends, and for these reasons was delivered to the MPs just before the start of the debate, so that they could not study the law through the debate in the Assembly to inform the public of the intentions of Mladjan Dinkic. No matter what Mr. Minister is not here, I'd like to ask him some questions about this bill. And to get him to come, I'm going to say that what he's armed, with socks on his head, entered the People's Bank of Yugoslavia, that he destroyed Serbian banking, that he embezzled the money he found in Cyprus, which allows his friends and employers to get insanely rich, I don't want to talk about it, because that's what the SRS MPs have mentioned on many occasions. I think that all these questions Mr Dinkic will have to answer to the investigative authorities and that all of his actions are being repented in one of the prisons of the Republic of Serbia. I wanted to take the opportunity to ask him two questions: first, for his boss and employer, because he is the courier of the governor of the National Bank of Jelasic, and to ask him how he managed to raise a 400,000-euro loan. To remind us, Mr. Governor of the National Bank Jelasic bought a villa for 380,000 euros, saying he provided the money by raising one loan to one of the banks. If a request is submitted for a loan of 380,000 euros, banks charge their services from one to two percent, plus a fee of one to two percent, it means that it needs at least 400,000 euros to pay off this villa. If this loan, which he has raised, is paid for a period of 10 years, with an interest rate that was not so much at the time, but much higher, but let's assume - 8.75, which can now be realistically obtained from such loans, his war would be 5,039,50 euros. If we turn all that into dinars, it turns out to be about 450,000 dinars. So I ask how it is possible for the governor of the National Bank to raise such a loan, because then he has to report to that bank that his receipts are at least a million dinars, as governor of the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. What confuses the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is that it has received a double or triple price for the villa, and it did not want to sell it, which suggests illogicality. There is no man in Serbia who pays 380,000 dinars, and will not sell for a million or millions of 380,000 dinars, except for our governor of the National Bank, which suggests that it was not the right purchase and trade, but the ordinary robbery at the expense of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That would be the first question. I hope this is what Mr Jelasic heard and will probably send him an answer during this session and that the courier Dinkic will read it to us in an hour or two. Meanwhile, I have another question for Mr Dinkic, that he is selling out Serbian banks, which destroys the Serbian market, will be tried by the court, but what he did when he was a guest in America, as governor of the National Bank, that cannot be tried by the court, but will be tried by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When he lectured in college, normally, the first lecture had to pay at least $10,000 and when he finished that lecture, one of the students in American college asked him: Mr Dinkic, what do you think of Kosovo and Metohija? Mr Dinkic, normally in his style, replied: Kosovo and Metohija have been left to the Americans. What kind of man can act like that and trade sacred Serbian land, trade, first of all, with me, with my family, with my children, with my property and with the property of 130,000 Serbs who have stayed down to live, with the property of 250,000 Serbs who have been exiled, but their property is still down, with the property of the Serb people who have built and built through the centuries that cultural heritage proud of the Serbian people and who is proud of the whole world? He so easily leaves it to someone else and, in addition, becomes a minister of finance. And his ministry, his mandate as finance minister, will be the most felt by citizens, Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. He's so wrapped up all the taps that no single dinar can go to any citizen. There are various stories to place certain funds, however, there is nothing - not from humanitarian aid, not from donations, not from credits for development, not from any investment. He probably thinks, but he can't say right now that we need to address some finance minister in America to provide some means to develop and survive Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. I hope that this government, with such a finance minister, will last very briefly, and that after that the new government will do something to ensure a better life for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, and the new minister of police and the new minister of justice will start a procedure for this man to finally stand where he belongs, which is behind bars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22822	Thank you, Mr. Kragovic. MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22823	Mr. Markovicu, we now have two major problems: the first problem of Mladjan Dinkic; the second problem -- that we do not have fans from G17 plus, all experts themselves. The whole G17 came down to three letters. I appreciate all those present, but I appreciate that Mr. Albianic is not really an expert on these things. It will be difficult for him to understand me and tell Mr Dinkic what it is, where Jelasic was wrong. You can see how it goes on portablely -- that Albianic explains to Dinkic that he is transferring Jelasic, where he was wrong about this member of the bill. This member has the title: "The Risks of Investments Bank" and intends to in the form of a risk that some restriction on investment, so that the bank does not quite relax and some investments destroy its basic substance that is defined as basic capital and that it does not destroy what is called – possible credit potential for placing and making money. Mr Albianic will explain to Mr Dinkic, and this Jelasic, that even before 1993, this problem existed and all the governors of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, the National Bank of Serbia later...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22824	Excuse me, Mr. Krasic, ladies and gentlemen, please allow the MP to speak of the amendment. Please be kind, a little quieter, and Mr. Krasic, please, there is no need to invite the MPs to explain something, when there is a representative of the Ministry, a banking assistant at the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, there is no reason, everything will be recorded and, according to the stenogram, there is no need for anyone else to explain. I'm sorry to interrupt, thank you and continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22825	I'm not mad that you interrupted me, but this gentleman who says he's in charge of banking, he hasn't even been born since there's this problem I've been talking about. However, I have been following this area a little longer, and I can tell you that once upon a time, it has always been an effort for the business banks, at the time that it was so, when they were called these banks, there was an effort to limit the investment activity of these banks, that capital and those assets that could invest would not invest in the underlying assets and that they would not effectively blow up their positions to lose the basic substance of the bank's capital later on in the revaluation. I'm seriously talking about the problem he used to be, the problem is still present today. He's not so expressive, because there's still no such thing and so expressed interest in these banks from abroad who have come to pick up this little misery and disappear with no tail. That's exactly what I'm talking about. Article 1 states that the investment of a bank in a person that does not belong to the so-called so-called “bank”. the financial sector – if you have already gone to the financial sector formulation, then you have to be in Article 2, where you have given definitions of basic terms, to specify what you mean by the financial sector. I can give my insight into what the financial sector is. In this sector there are brokerage houses, stock exchanges, insurance companies, etc., but you had to define this in some way, to see exactly which person you mean within this group. It was given here as a restriction that the bank's investment should not exceed 10% of the bank's capital. If the minimum capital is 10m euros, this investment per person outside this financial sector can be up to a million euros. Investment, as you put it at the beginning of the sentence, can be associated with all forms of investment. In position 2, you say that the total investment of one bank towards all non-financial sector persons, and here you potential what is a problem, and in the underlying assets of the bank must not exceed 60% of the bank's capital; 60% of the bank's basic capital amount is six million euros. The third position - by investing from the position of this member is not covered by the acquisition of shares for their further sale within six months. These are already market activities, where it is possible to buy paper of value and, within some time, sell, extract substance with yield and it is already business. That place isn't in this article. It is the first and most basic objection to the appearance of this member. Secondly, if you go with a limitation in paragraph 2 that investment in fixed assets and total investment in all persons not belonging to that financial sector can be maximum, or not over 60%, then I warn you that this is not the basic intensity of modern banking. Modern banking is based on investment security and large crafts. If this is how you plan this and you have a bank that has a low credit potential, and we're going to get into this situation because of this competition that happens at the banks, you can only avoid this if money comes from abroad to wash in these banks, clean and return to somewhere else. That's why you have different balances, different states and different possibilities of these formally-legal same banks that came from abroad. That's the real truth and that's the problem with this member. You have turned everything around just from your initial initiative, which is about to say, we will force this law, we will empower Jelasic to do whatever he wants, we know that in a few months we will no longer be in power, or perhaps a little longer if this budget law passes, after which you are no longer interested in any law. And when a new government comes to correct all this, it probably takes a minimum of six to nine months to establish a new normal government. In that period, you're going to do some dirtier things and it wouldn't surprise me, in the event of a change of government, that a significant number of these foreign bank reforms are withdrawn from our market. How much will you be able to ensure the safety of citizens who were investors, savings, payment cards and other things. I doubt there will be any political readiness with the outgoing authorities to protect the interests of the citizens. In this way, I don't want to tell the citizens -- don't save, don't invest, I'm just warning, no less than Jelasic warned the public about the interest policy of certain banks on our market, when he told the citizens openly that they were taking the risk, because the NBS is not behind the initiative and the actions of some banks on the market in Serbia. I know this is vampire time, because you like to maintain these sessions when you want to talk about something, but I guess there's enough pure consciousness and conscience to understand the seriousness of this problem that can arise, and based on some experience, I can't be naive, I've never been a prophet before, and I've announced what's going to happen and you've never denied me. The difference is what I announced for 15 to a month. So make sure this is exactly how I pictured it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22826	Thank you, Mr. Krasic, for the seriousness of approach to the subject. Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by MP Blagoja Krajinović. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22827	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please, Mr. President, have the minister out who's come in the jeans to the National Assembly. We have adopted a session of the Administrative Committee of the Code of Conduct, under which MPs are forbidden to subdue the National Assembly and humiliate the Members of the People. Let him go home and change, and let him go home right now because this kind of harassment and attempt to humiliate the citizens of Serbia, that in this tall country in jeans and sweaters, no one can allow.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22828	Mr. Wolf, I'm going to give you your time back, and before that, I must say, unfortunately, to my great regret, the code you're talking about and proposed to the Administrative Committee, to my great regret, as well as the other rule I've proposed, has not been adopted. The session continues on Monday so that it can be regulated. But, because of the dignity of the National Assembly, I will certainly ask, because it is known that responsible people behave in such a high home, I will ask the Minister to, despite his dignity, the Assembly and the urgent arrival at the request of the President of Parliament, although, as you know, it is not necessary for the Minister to be present, but for a representative who is designated, in accordance with Article 194, 195, 196 and 197, I would certainly ask Mr Dinkić, because of the usual behaviour and dress, although he is not subject to any code, please simply change the wardrobe within the next hour. It's nice to meet you. It's nice to meet you. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22829	I have a suggestion, since Mr. Albianic was changing clothes, that he should give him his. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I see, we've had a little laugh, and this is not a joke. So, we can joke with both Mr. Albianic and the other MPs, but he is decently dressed, as Mr. Mladjan Dinkic is not decently dressed, only asking to behave and nothing else. Whether he will do it immediately or not, it is important to me that the citizens of Serbia know that the minister in jeans came before the MPs and the citizens of Serbia, let the citizens of Serbia know that.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22830	Please don't win while the MP speaks, be kind. Go on, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22831	You should have said that the public would know that the subject of who here has taken a liter of wine here, but I ask that we no longer talk about it. So, because of the inability to write rational and amendments that would have absolute meaning and that could correct this law, we were forced to do so because of the speed that has been made in the making of the law and to try to push it through the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to write amendments to all the members of the law that states that certain members of the law are deleted. That's how we did it with a 35th member who's talking about operational risk. It says: "The operational risk is the possibility of negative effects on the financial outcome and capital of the bank due to failures in the work of employees, inadequate internal procedures and processes, inadequate management of information and other systems, as well as unpredictable external events. "The operational risk in the functioning of all business banks is the behavior of Finance Minister and Governor of the National Bank Radovan Jelasic. So tonight, we hear, Minister Dinkic was encouraged, at one point, not in jeans, went out for a pay phone, and in lack of arguments attacked a lady who was not here and was unable to respond. That when someone works and talks about Serbian radicals is nothing new. On the contrary, in the end, I will explain for the sake of the public and for the sake of the Serbian citizens the whole case, explain what is happening in the last few days, and what is this man in jeans just trying to repeat, which he has already organised, rudely dressed, of course, and the minister. So, I was going to say that he seems to be on his way to Kebe, so he strayed and stopped by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but I'm also counting on Kebe to do a little better and grooming.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22832	Excuse me, Mr. Wolfie, since we had a problem at the time when you weren't present at the session, please, when it comes to faces, just tell me if it's a metaphor or a face that I need to know exists. (From Hall: Dragan Kojac Keba) I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22833	Dragan Kotic Keba, the famous partner of Mladjan Dinkic, and when they are in jeans and when they are not in jeans. I don't know what happened with Fahrette anymore. So, the brave Mladjan Dinkic came out, and without the jeans then, he came out here, attacked Jorgenko Tabakovic and said her family member forged some facts by asking for loans, so now he's going to file criminal charges, a fair minister in jeans, he's going to file criminal charges. We've been asking around a little in the meantime. We found out what was really going on. Minister Dinkic, for who knows which time, as our people would say in a beautiful dictionary, was bypassing the truth. That's when you say what our people call another name. He was going around the truth because Mrs. Tabakovic's daughter didn't take the credit, and she asked for a loan like any other, and she couldn't get the credit for just three months' work experience. The documents have been withdrawn. Nothing's falsified. You made that up like everything else. By the way, that's one little thing, nonsense, I don't even know why you needed it. It was necessary and it was much more necessary, and I'll tell you why it was important to you. Because in a series of lies against the SRS, which have been brought up in recent days, one more thing has never happened to anyone and nothing special. This is where Ljubomir Kragovic spoke about the 380,000-euro villa. I now discover for Serbian citizens that the villa did not cost, Mr Kragovic, 380,000 euros. The National Bank Governor's villa costs a million and 400,000 euros. He paid 1,400,000 euros. He didn't pay, you know, but a bank in Belgrade paid well, and he gave a very small amount of money and has no burden on that house. He's lying about mortgaged any other facility or anything. It is a partial gift and a partial loan from a Belgrade business bank, which prefers to be advertised on an anti-Serbian television.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22834	Excuse me, Mr. Wolfie, I have to interrupt again for a moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22835	And why stop me?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22836	You certainly, be kind, I will tell you, since the MPs asked me not to allow any use of data relating to the private life of other persons under Article 100(3). I'm guessing you're not the one who's taking that information out, you're the one who's bringing out the information that's been published in public. Is that right?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22837	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22838	Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22839	I never give out private information, and I'm not interested in it. I'm talking about what can and must be made available to the public. I see Mr. Dinkic doesn't listen to you, he hasn't gone to take off his jeans and put on decent pants yet. We're not ready to put up with...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22840	Please, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22841	Don't beg me. Pray to him, Mr. Markovic, you cannot behave with me as you have taught others. Let's get some torn jeans replaced by decent pants.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22842	Be kind, continue your exposure...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22843	It is located in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22844	I can't do two things at the same time, be nice and go on...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22845	I didn't say you were taking him to change jeans, but to get him to come out and change jeans.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22846	I didn't hear you. What you didn't say.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22847	I said I didn't say you were taking him to change jeans instead of make him go out and change jeans.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22848	Don't worry, it'll be all over the Rules of Procedure, anyway...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22849	I didn't know there was one in the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22850	I don't look so much at what he's wearing, but we'll follow the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie, keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22851	That campaign started yesterday. What do those who are in power today do? We were thinking, who gave Mr. Minister that B92 TV building, were you familiar with it, did you have anything to do with it? I just got some papers today, Mr. Minister, I haven't won by now, believe me. I'm waiting for you to tell me, it's a terrible big operational risk. The operational risk, the creepy, Mr. Minister, is how and how the privatisation of the company was conducted. How much is that for, Mr. Minister? Who has been threatened by the Serbian government that anyone who appears at a public auction will be cut off his hand if he raises his hand for the sixth time. That's funny. I'll tell you the name and last name, just laugh, son of Radisav Rodic, owner of ABC product, wanted to participate in a public auction and received a call from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, where he was told that if he raised his hand, that his hand would be cut off. It was at the time of the previous government, not at your time, Mr. Minister. This was the second time in your power, Mr Dinkic, at the National Bank, and later with some permits in the Serbian government, Mr Dinkic. I guess you're not familiar with that. I'll show you some later papers. What's this about? Yesterday, one of them called... (From the O.R.: is that on the agenda? )......................................................................................................... This is on the agenda of what I'm talking about, the operational risk.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22852	Please don't throw it away. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22853	Since Roma - Strasbourg has passed you, and Roma - Strasbourg has been more important to you than the National Assembly, now listen nicely to the operational risk. Then came a certain Ćosic Yugoslavia, called Tomislav Nikolic and said: Mr Nikolic, there are significant indications that you have an apartment in St. Sava 33 and that Partizan bought you, he says, "pezo 307". Says the man, so it's not true people, what's wrong with you, we checked, there's a Tomislav Nikolic, but we're not going to publicize the phone number. We checked that too, it's good for the citizens of Serbia to hear, live there... Mr. Aligrudic, do you find it interesting to hear?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22854	Please, there's no reason to throw the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22855	There are new details, I've learned most of them. The woman was born in 1936, her late husband Tomislav Nikolic in 1932, 20 years older than Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of our party. It has nothing to do with him, no acquaintances, no relatives, no friendships, no other relationships. The liars were once again trapped. Before that, Tomislav Nikolic was a murderer. No one's ever been from his family or his friends, and not him, he didn't drive a "Pejo 307" or a similar car. Who ordered this, who put such nonsense in place, and who insisted on it? It's part of those, and this one's laughing, because he doesn't understand anything. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: It is easy for him. It's easy for him to live.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22856	Please, Mr. Krassic, allow the speaker to continue speaking.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22857	But that's what the others organized, they yellowed what they thought they could however they wanted the dirt to make sense of the globe and that no one would ever answer them. As you can see, there are short legs in a lie. They're going to have more and more problems showing and proving what they've done, where they've been together with their coalition partners, which from G17, which from other parties, has been hijacking and robbing state property. We are here today to witness that those who have entered, with other and short pipes, into the People's Bank, come today in jeans torn apart, because they can and can do whatever they want and how they want. (Goldana Pop-Lazic, from the post: But these jeans cost 200 euros. ) Two hundred euros costs these jeans, and ordinary people have an average salary of that much, and these jeans...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22858	Please, allow the MP, let's not bid on how much the new torn jeans cost, be kind, this is a serious matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22859	I didn't know these torn jeans were more expensive in fashion, but Gordana understands fashion and she knows it. They weren't torn, then I thought.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22860	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22861	So, Mr. President of the National Assembly, I expect the minister to listen to you, to respect the National Assembly. And this time is not now, we can also joke, smile, but it is not a way to address and treat both the MPs and the National Assembly and the citizens of Serbia. You know something, you can come in without a tie or a vest, but you have to have pants. You can't come to the National Assembly in jeans, and especially you can't go to the O.R. It's much worse than that that you don't invent Mr. Minister anymore, that you don't falsify the truth, that you don't deceive the citizens, that sometimes the citizens can hear some true thing from you, and it's good that you don't use the method of those you probably want to go to the coalition, so they won't see you, and that's your yellow friends, but you make a nice deal with your party colleagues, so figure out a way to go to the elections on your own, so you try the stick to throw up to 3% or 4%, you'll be the relevant extra-parliamentary party. By fearing that 3 percent or 4% of you will be like Sergei Bubka 6.5 meters, so we are terribly concerned about ourselves, but above all about our country, while you are at the top of our country, while you are coming to the National Assembly in jeans, as you go out for this pay phone for falsifying and inventing, while you are at the moment when you are to answer to the MPs, you are dealing with how you are going to attack a political party. It's yours to answer. Call for a TV duel, then attack, not to come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and you will talk about members and sympathisers, or I do not know anyone from another political party and you are salting your mind. And you're brave enough to come into your jeans, so you can do whatever you want, so who are you selling it to? What, someone's scared of you, you're very powerful, you're very strong, everyone has to listen to you, you can shut down whatever you want in Serbia and whoever you want, threaten whoever you want and the way you want, so now everyone needs to be afraid of you, here we're not afraid of you. You're nothing, Mr. Dinkich. (Mladjan Dinkic, from the place: Neither are you.) I didn't say I was just a man, Mr. Dinkich...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22862	Please take care of the expression.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22863	I'm just a man, of course I'm nobody and nothing in that sense. (Mladjan Dinkic, from the scene: If you were a man, you wouldn't mind jeans. () As much as I have in my head and as much respect for me. I wouldn't mind, Mr. Dinkic, jeans outside this building and no one's ever told you how you show up at your election rally, but the jeans bother every member of the government. Have one come out, if he can say, from your party, say he doesn't mind. Who's here from the MPs in the jeans? When you get together, there's not one.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22864	Please, it's not correct...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22865	What's wrong?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22866	I'm not telling you. I'm telling the MPs who raised their hand. Please, five MPs raised their hands to your question, so I'm saying it's not right how you talk to a speaker, that's what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22867	Mr Markovic, to make it quite clear to the public what you said, none of the three MPs who raised their hands are in jeans. Don't deceive the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22868	Mr. Wolfie, please, that's why I have warned the MPs who raise their hand to your rhetorical question. But, Mr. Wolfie, I don't want to check it out, be kind, not check it, or envy people who can do it to themselves, but by code we'll solve it, it's not only correct to interfere with the speaker. My job is to take care of it, as I have extended the time of the amendment due to these constant interruptions. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22869	Albianic suggested something better to turn off my microphone, it's so democratic in accordance with your tradition. I hear you've been making warnings tonight. Time's up, but when they take five minutes away from me, I've got three minutes left. Well...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22870	Please, gentlemen, allow the speaker to address, and I have informed the MP that I have extended the time, because we have interrupted several times the speakers. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22871	Since I don't think we should be serving as a midnight circus for Serbian citizens and I don't think it's fun for anyone, even if we're tired, so we can laugh beyond what's common and beyond what would be normal in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it would be good to leave enough time for the laws you propose to the National Assembly... Why are you interrupting me now?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22872	Please, Mr. Wolfie, I have warned by ringing the messengers to be quiet. Be kind, I try to properly lead and allow everyone to say what they want, because it is a job for MPs to speak on behalf of their party, because the citizens chose their party, their electoral list, to represent them in the Assembly, and the job of the president of the Assembly is to take care of the entire home and try to do so both according to one and the other parliamentary group. Just because I rang the bell, there's no reason to be too sensitive, be kind and bring your exposure to rest in peace, you have two minutes left for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22873	So, to give enough time to the MPs so that they can prepare serious amendments, so they can talk about what they would change in any law, so that it would work and how they would arrange the whole legal area or the whole sphere of social life, if they were able to decide that. And not to pass the law that you say you have half a day, and then we extend to you another 24.00 now the right and the possibility to write amendments. This is how we'll always be in the service, or in an attempt to promote Mladjan Dinkic or another minister, I guess the minister thinks that the more he insults the SRS, in line with the trends he produced himself on B92, and yet you don't tell me what you have to do with that building in New Belgrade, but I'll say it later tonight when the time comes, what kind of vampire television is, so I'm going to say in some vampire time how and how much money they got a magnificent facility in New Belgrade. In any case, I want to talk to the citizens of Serbia, to say that they will hear and see things in the coming period. I want to thank all citizens of Serbia, especially the members and supporters of the SRS, but also those who are not, for their enormous patience, for their enormous trust, because today, they also called in the Serbian Assembly yesterday, and in the SRS rooms in all cities and municipalities, for the simple reason that they cannot endure injustice, which the liars cannot bear, whether it is called Cosic, whether it is called Tadic, Dinkic or whatever you want, because they want the truth, because they want to change, because they want to fight corruption and because they want a different power. We will do everything to fight for it, and no matter how many authorities we have in our hands, no matter how powerful we are, we will never fear. If nothing, the citizens of Serbia will at least be represented in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22874	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. Does any other parliamentary group want to talk about this amendment? Member of the 36th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I am obliged to apologize to all MPs once again, I think that today has been said several times, indeed some laws bring about a very difficult situation for MPs, and in this case, when only six working days were available, which has been notified by the head of a parliamentary group during adoption, although the president has ordered all MPs to report that such a law has come from the government and has been given by an emergency procedure, so on the assumption that it may be voted upon, to put it on the agenda, the president has asked that everyone be ready to start preparing amendments, but, of course, six days has not been enough for all, and I hope that such things will not happen in the future. Here you go, Mr. Krassic. Sorry to keep you waiting.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22875	The one who wrote the bill, in article 36, imagined that the NBS prescribed criteria and probably criteria, not as silly as it was written here -- criteria for identification, measurement and risk assessment. It is likely to refer to the criteria and criteria for calculating individual bank business indicators in relation to risk management and restrictions relating to these risks, the manner, form and time limits of the bank’s reporting of the indicators referred to in point 1 of this position. Who do they report to? The NBS, the board of directors, the assembly, the board of directors, their founders, the public, you can't see what that means. But since this is the end of section two, which is modernly called risk management – just to remind you that each bank must have its own organisational part that will deal with risk management, it starts from identification to taking measures that can reduce the negative effects of these risks – all of this bank should also be prescribed by its internal instruments to protect capital, but here it is now going in that direction that he designed the concept of this law, that the governor of the NB maltene releases water, because he is wondering about everything and everything. After this article goes a new chapter, which is -- business with connected persons. And that business with connected faces might be the biggest risk. The definition of the related persons is given in Article 2, persons linked to the bank, connected persons. There goes even from employees to legal entities who are in some legal relationship with the bank. As serious as this issue is, and the government's representatives are inconclusive, I'll show you on one occasion. Yesterday we had the opportunity to hear the governor claim that the money of the Serbian citizens in Cyprus will never be returned, because there is no more data to be obtained and that it is Bin Laden and Al-Qaeda's fault. Come on, maybe he was joking, though I doubt he was joking and attacked Bin Laden, insinuating that the DOS Manley government was in connection with Bin Laden because she handed him the money to bomb America. Mr Dinkic went one step further because he forgot only one known fact in the banking world, and so, for God's sake, in America. The Bush and Bin Laden families are in friendly relations and they are connected faces, Mr Dinkic, because they are also shareholders of large multinational groups, as well as connected in some organisations that rule this planet based on capital and political influence, and you have carelessly resented not only terrorists, but also the entire Bush family. They're connected faces. So many books have been published about their connection, about the connection between Dick Cheney, a group in America dealing with the production of chemical weapons, weapons, nuclear equipment and their collaboration with the Middle East. You see, Mr. President of the National Assembly, how dangerous it is when a representative of the government is such an irresponsible person. At a time when everyone is fighting terrorism, Mladjan Dinkic is pushing us where we don't belong. Serbia was the first to fight terrorism. The fact that someone tried to be funny, although I'm not sure of that degree of humor and the ability to be funny, can cause serious consequences to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So if you add to this that even by dressing you see irresponsibility and see how much one respects or does not respect the state, then you understand what this law is, why it is proposed and why in these nights, you must force this thing to end, so that in the day to vote this is a package of arrangements with the law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So if it goes past, some interests will be guaranteed and some clues will be created. There are a lot of clues that need to be covered up, because in this country the only thing that's transparent is that this government is wrong, that whoever doesn't know where to put the sock can't run the state. If instead of wearing a sock, put it on your head, then you can see where this country can go and I'm not surprised after that stocking on his head, this comes as an organic connection to Bin Laden and the terrorists.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22876	Thank you. We said we wouldn't talk about private life. Everyone wears what they want in their private lives. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. (Inea Sarovic, from the place: I want, why thank you, what it looks like! Please, no such behaviour, Mr. Sarovic. Please be kind and honor the dignity of this congregation. If you'd like to pick up the phone, pick up the phone, and before that, Mrs. Verica Radeta called on the Rules of Procedure, and I asked very discreetly if she wanted to, when the amendment was over, and nodded me. Of course, be kind for mutual respect. Of course, I haven't looked all over the hall, but if you want to talk about the amendment, there's no need for that voice, we'll hear from you well, I understand that you will follow the amendment, and you will proceed immediately after the amendment, as soon as Mrs. Verica Radeta's statement is complete in the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22877	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure. In paragraph 1, Article 101 states: "If the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is insultingly expressed about the MP from another parliamentary group, stating his name and name or function, that is to say, misread his presentation, the MP, etc., and in the second position "said the lie". So in that sense, I'm talking to you, Mr. President, because you just told a lie about the bill on banks, which we're talking about today in particular. It was Friday after 6:00 p.m., when everyone left the assembly, the bill arrived in the parliamentary group. The deadline for the amendment was Monday night. Where you found a six-day deadline, I don't really know, but it's not right. We have been telling you all day why we have submitted amendments to this kind, that is, that we have proposed that each member be deleted, but that in the debate we have shown that it was not the essence of it, but that we are really professionally commenting on each member of the law, we are showing how we could change that we had time to intervene, but unfortunately we did not, so we had to do it this way. Please take care of yourself. If you do not know when we received the law, until the deadline for amendments, etc., you should have consulted professional services before addressing the MPs in this way. The second reason I answered, I just got a phone message from an educator who says, tell that in jeans that our educators haven't paid our salary, because we allegedly broke through some of his imaginary ceilings at the height of the salary. Sir in jeans, here's a chance to explain why the educators didn't get paid. And at this hour they're waiting to hear from you, but I don't think they want to see you in jeans.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22878	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Mr. Minister, we're talking facts here and the Rules of Procedure. Of course, the Rules of Procedure in no way foresees the obligation of anyone to speak the truth, for who would judge it. You don't mean someone who presides or a body. I'm not talking about Mrs. Radette's exposure, I'm explaining the data. For that there is immunity, and for that there are political debates, but it has to be done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. When it comes to the data in organising the session, they must be correct. I have to explain. I understand that it is difficult in some parliamentary groups to organise work, for various reasons. Some parliamentary groups have a small number of members, so it is difficult, some have a specific kind of division or different ambitions, so they work differently. So, based on what, six days? Mrs. Radeta, you're in some way right. I certainly owe it to say what I said for six days. The law arrived on Friday and was immediately available to MPs, handed over by the government. The moment the speaker of the assembly was informed that the law under that name was addressed to the Assembly by an emergency procedure, the speaker of the assembly informed the parliamentary groups. That's what I brought out earlier as a piece of information to call the MPs who will work on it. Of course, a small part of the MPs do great work, as it always does in life, as it always does in every house. Friday's the first day, Saturday's the second, Sunday's the third. All those who think MPs have undeservedly high wages, don't know that they have to do all these jobs, because they are the key to improving the law, and on Fridays, and Saturdays and Sundays. So, Friday, Saturday, Sunday. Monday, as you said, at midnight, if the law were under ordinary procedure, the law is an emergency procedure. Thanks to the new Rules of Procedure adopted by this assembly, both regular and urgent situations have been clearly defined. In the case of an emergency procedure, amendments shall be submitted until the start of the principle debate of that item on the agenda. There were united points, the assembly voted on Monday. We stopped at Monday. I'm just keeping an eye on what I said for six days, because I have no reason to deceive anyone. I understand how you calculated it, and I'm explaining to you how it's been six days. After the assembly voted so, the budget debate began on Tuesday. The president, as you know, did not extend his working day so that we could go to the details and the next day, at a time when citizens can pay maximum attention, monitor the budget debate, because I share the opinion of all of you that it is crucial, and on Wednesday after 4:00, this is Tuesday, this is Wednesday, after 4:00, the debate on the Bill of Banks began. That's six days. In order for the citizens to understand, so I apologized earlier, how difficult the work of MPs is, once again, I would like to explain that not all MPs, especially if they were not focused on what the Assembly voted and what order was planned and if they did not follow the notices of the President of the Assembly, who gave it here, were not all able to know that only Wednesday would the principle debate begin. Fortunately, as you know, as early as Monday, I reminded myself of this, one responsible head of the parliamentary group drew attention to the fact that MPs were in a difficult situation, so the president of the assembly announced on Monday that amendments would be accepted by Wednesday. That's what happened. Thanks to this, it was possible that all those who had arranged to submit amendments could submit amendments. Of course, there's always a business opportunity, because I'm trying, I hope, for the benefit of all of you, to be patient with the debate. Let us not strictly call on Members to prevent them from speaking constantly on the subject, and it is enough for the skilled parliamentary group to write the amendment "to be deleted" and to receive 15 minutes to clarify its position in detail, regardless of whether or not the amendment could have been submitted. Thanks to this, we are all able today to listen to arguments made by MPs by individual members of the law, and I thank them for that responsibility. It is also not correct to call for a proposalary representative to address it, because you know very well that the president of the assembly will not allow the speaker to address it from a pay phone, trusting the MP who said he was a representative of the proposings in jeans. I didn't see that, but I certainly believe you, and in that case, I won't let that happen. It's one thing to come to the congregation. Because of the dignity of the MPs, at the request of the president of the assembly, ministers will appear, if necessary and if it is important for the state to pass the law and if they care, right out of bed in pajamas, but they will not be able to speak for this speaker, because it is a matter of dignity. Thank you very much, it had to be a detailed explanation, because everyone has to do their job. My job is to work for all of you. Thank you very much for your patience. We're continuing our work. Mr. Sarovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22879	The Minister is running away from you on the side exit. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Markovic, first of all, I must warn you that it's really extremely incorrect the way you're having a session and it's totally inappropriate that your behavior was a moment when you tried to deny the MPs the right to discuss this amendment further, by murmuring in your chin at an incredible rate -- is anyone answering for this amendment, I don't thank you so quickly that I haven't been able to raise my hand and I think that, Mr. Markovic, I really...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22880	Mr. Sarovic, I warned you not to insult the MPs of the people. As much as we admire the speed as the president of the National Assembly says, I don't underestimate any MPs, and I believe that everyone is capable, and they have shown that, while saying one sentence of a good ten seconds to raise your hand and answer the word. Of course, they know what it is, and it is not right to insult a people's messenger who has failed. I believe he just wasn't focused at the moment, but he would have done it. Thank you. I'm giving you your time back so you can speak by amendment. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22881	I thank you, Mr. Markovic, but I'd also like to ask you not to interrupt me anymore. Another thing I'd like to say to you is that I really thank you for this work and for the way you schedule the session and the delivery of the material, and don't get the wrong idea that we are possibly angry at you for leaving us so little time, thinking that we won't be able to prepare for the discussion, because, as you can see, it's just further motivated us. If we had more time, maybe we wouldn't have paid that much attention to this law, so we'd definitely have submitted less amendments. This is how we have submitted one amendment to each member of the law, and this enables us to explain directly to the citizens of Serbia the execution of each member individually and complete law that you want to pass. I'm really sorry that Mr Dinkic left this assembly hall again. We've had a lot of bad opportunities today to experience it, from throwing, from typing messages over a mobile phone, drawing Uncle Gliss and I don't know what Minister Dinkic didn't do anymore. This was only the crown of his behaviour and attitude not to any parliamentary group, but above all to the ruling majority who chose him and parliament at all. But as for Mr Krasic's amendment, or amendment to Article 36, it is also the last amendment to this chapter and these are amendments from the amendments to Articles 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35 and 36, which are all interrelated, as are amendments to the SRS. They are talking about risks, and it can't really be taken the impression that both Minister Dinkic and Governor Jelasic here and, therefore, the Government of the Republic of Serbia have tried to get a little more involved in something that shouldn't interfere and have tried to regulate some things to the point, which should still be left to the banks themselves, to business banks, to banks that should be able to survive themselves and to fight on the market. You practically counted all the risks here. The only thing you didn't count Mr Dinkic's risk, I don't know which factor he might be under, and whether the large four Serbian banks that were extinguished by Mr Dinkic's will could have been expected in their business to include factor Dinkic, possibly to do something to avoid breaking the Serbian economy and firing about 25,000 people. This is also directly linked to Article 35, but also to Article 33, which speaks about the bank's exposure to the connected person, and that is one really big nonsensus. Whoever gets a little bit deeper in this and these quasi-restrictions that are given, we'll see that it's not really about the restrictions, because you first say that the bank's large exposure to one person or group of connected persons is 10%, then that the bank's exposure to one person or group of related persons cannot exceed 25%. You're still saying that exposure to one connected person to the bank must not exceed five percent of the bank's capital, which I find inadmissible discrimination, because if credit conditions are given for everything, then it doesn't matter if someone is connected to the bank, especially when there are conditions of connection that you've set so wide that there are practically no businesses in Serbia that will not be connected to any bank. If the bank in the Contemporary Administration bought paper, then you can easily connect that the Contemporary Administration is related to the bank, and therefore all suppliers of the Contemporary Administration will further connect and thus fail. In one way or similar way, you can connect every company in Serbia, so it is still completely unimaginable when we reach the sixth position, or the first fifth, where it says that the total exposure of the bank to bank-related persons cannot exceed 20% of the bank's capital. Then there's something that I think Mladjan Dinkic, with all the socks on his head, can't explain, which is that the National Bank of Serbia prescribes a sum of all the large exposures of the bank, which cannot be less than 400 per cent or more than 800 per cent of the bank's capital. So on the one hand, you limit the bank's exposure to one company, and then you say the total exposure, the total sum of all large exposures of the bank, should not be less than 400 percent. So you're basically saying that banks have to lend loans to people with a high risk to the bank. Therefore, banks would not want, business banks must somehow purchase entities that already have a large exposure and find new ones, as long as they do not have a total of large exposures greater than 400 percent of the bank's capital. If someone, I don't know what it's supposed to be, I don't think they should be economists, it's enough that they're in their right mind, they can terrorize banks in this way and force them to place their resources with those who already have a big exposure. You, in the same head, make absolutely the opposite rules. Is it possible here, I don't know if it's a technical error, if it's a typing error, if it's a foreign language translation? So, I also accept that Mladjan Dinkic, when he returns to those new pants, although the governor of the National Bank sent him a courier and some papers, may have been able to send a decent pair of pants, but I ask you as chairman to pass this question on to us, so that Mladjan Dinkic will answer what he wanted with this provision.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22882	Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Ambassador Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22883	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I hope the minister returns when he's fit. You're wrong, I realized that you tried to find a way out for yourself and say, "You can't go out for a pay phone, and you can't be in the MPs' groups with rude clothes." He shouldn't be here at all, but since I understand the differences in the party hierarchy, I understand you couldn't react differently. As for Article 37...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22884	Please, without letting the MP speak, he doesn't have to, of course, know this guy's data. Be kind, Mr. Wolfie, I'll give you your time. Please don't throw it away. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22885	Mr. Markovic, don't throw it to me, because I know exactly what your functions are and I know well what the ratings within the party are of each of you, but I don't have to talk about it in particular. I'm not asking you to explain it to me and toss it as I speak. You don't have to interrupt anyone, I'm gonna ask everyone who's impatient or who's talking, who's distracting me, not to. Please don't protect me in the course of my exposure anymore. As for Article 37, it says that the bank in its business cannot, in connection with the bank, grant conditions that are more favourable than those granted to other non-bank entities. That kind of legal norm has existed so far. Why hasn't it been applied? Why were the connected faces absolutely privileged? Why could they do what they wanted? How is it possible that several people associated with the Euroaxis Bank, the former Vexim Bank and the National Savings Bank, with the support of Mladjan Dinkic, with the support of the Serbian government, rob what they arrive, how much do state assets arrive without having any answers? Is it possible that no one in Serbia has yet responded to what the biggest affairs in our country are? Is it possible that no one asks for Wolf Hamovic's health anymore, except from time to time, when you don't know what to say anymore, make up a story -- give money to the radicals, so shut up? Since I understand you don't know what you're going to make up and what you're going to say, you're also using such incredible lies. When we talk about it, it's interesting that in our country no affair is forced to end. Why? Because I don't know if you've known the information since we introduced the amendments and additions to the Criminal Code against corruption, we have three cases prosecuted at the annual level of the entire Republic; none of them have been completed by a judicial verdict. If someone wants to tell me that there has been no corruption in Serbia at all in the past three years, then I think the citizens will have a pretty sweet laugh. On the other hand, in all other affairs, when it comes to the word, the government produces them, as Albianic called it -- an affair of the millennium, or a vestilence of the affair, what was it in the end? A lieutenant, a captain, ended up in custody, chasing a businessman, and ministers, Council of Ministers Presidents, finance ministers, government presidents -- neither guilty nor debtors. We have a 45m-euro satellite and no one knows where we are, how, when and why we're in charge. For your information, that satellite, the only thing I have no insight into is why we needed it. We have no insight into BiH, Kosovo and Metohija; the picture comes in 24 hours late. So, about this kind of insolence and irresponsibleness towards my country, I just can't talk. Why do we need a video of Norway watching Tromso beat the Star, or watch them sunbathing in the islands from Greece, etc. What does that have to do with our people and our land? What we need right now, all the footage, everything that's going on in BiH, that we can help and protect our people, that we have all the information, that we can have in Kosovo and Metohija, that we don't have, and we give money. The citizens of Serbia, neither guilty nor debtors, will have to pay huge money or we will be in conflict with a great world power, such as Israel, and I suppose no one wants to. What's settled on that? Nothing's been solved. What's the solution to the Euroaxis Bank? Nothing. What's settled on the National Savings Bank? Nothing. Why? Since I'm often asked, Mr. President, they say -- you ran that polling board on electricity and financial banking business related to that case, then I say -- everything I could and everything we could in the SRS did, but it seems to me that some of us had no understanding of it, so in a slightly perfiduous way, we were reputed, making up that one New Serbia member agreed to their position, in a double-crossed way, voted it 3:2. I'm interested, Mr. President, why isn't this report still in session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? He had to be a year ago. Why is the draft law on amendments to the Privatisation Act not on the agenda? I put up with it a year and a half ago. Why is there no draft law on planning and construction on the agenda? Why isn't everything that we think is terribly important to the citizens, and that doesn't matter to you? To make Serbia's citizens understand, it is now midnight 15 minutes, and we now have 25-30 SRS MPs and exactly seven MPs who are not in the SRS, plus Predrag Markovic -- eight. I apologize to Mr Markovic, exactly eight MPs of the ruling coalition outside the SRS. What's everybody else sleeping about? Others are not interested in laws that are to be adopted in the National Assembly, they are tired, or may not have raised the living room today. That's why they didn't want to bother and stay up late. Today we live in a society where connected faces, where gangs, mobs do what they want, manages this country the way they want to, buys where who, when and how they get there. It's enough to carry in one or two envelopes, either in a government body or an institution, or individuals. So if we continue to endure this kind of corruption and the worst possible crime, in which people will fight only for a crumb of government, so every municipal official or city official, who gets the chance to decide on someone's land, decide on someone's building facility, live well because they'll take a thousand, two, three or five, and the rest of our people, those people who work after the stream, those who work in the field, who work in that same municipality, who are not in a position to take anything, or those who are in a position and are not thieves and won't take anything, they'll barely survive. That is why it is terribly important for us to have this type of mafia, that this type of connected persons that function in the most significant banks in our country, which function in the most powerful companies today in Serbia, to stop it. Today in our country we have so many businessmen, who have more money than some countries in the former Yugoslavia, and our country is the poorest, and we have almost the lowest income per capita per year. We have the lowest gross social product on the annual level, but that's why we have ten of them that are richer than any country. Now tell me that's not true and that the state can't do that. If he can't do it differently, let the state do it the way Vladimir Putin did it. Have him call someone, Roman Abramovich, and we've got them here, thank God, all you want. Let him call him, and let him say, "Now you will build this, now you will do it, and it is a state, because you have done it out of this state and out of the skin of this people; someone who will have enough courage and ability." And not Vojislav Kostunica, a real fan of racing for Kosovo, needs to raise money for our province, to see how to lobby, how to influence and how to change the attitudes of so-called. international communities. Don't let it happen to us that at this extraordinary evening, extremely important for our country, we raise 80,000 euros. I wouldn't have let those bastards in, there was an honest world, and there was a lot of mobsters, and I wouldn't have let 800,000 of them go in there because they stole this country by hundreds of millions of euros. They came, gave 5,000 euros each, and still boasted that they had allocated a lot to Kosovo and Metohija. It's you, connected faces and banks, and by all other companies and businesses, and nobody can do anything to them because they can buy anything, because they can buy anyone, they can kill whoever they want, they can do whatever they want, and the biggest problem will still be the SRS to all of you in the country. There is no way to explain it, there is no reason why it can be explained. You know why this is happening? It only happens because they don't know what to do with Serbian radicals. For five years we have not been in power, five years we have not interfered with anything, except as an opposition political party we criticise. These five years, they're still attacking radicals, with imaginary apartments, with imaginary murders, with no idea what. I brought the news tomorrow just to see how much hohstuplare human, how rude there is no limit. I have asked many of you MPs, MPs of the congregation's majority, if you watched yesterday's show where the guest was Tomislav Nikolic. You've almost all said it was horrible and you've never seen it, that you've never seen such a kind of insolence, a lie, a falsification of the reckless. That journalist dared to say in tomorrow's paper -- it's just my right to ask, it's just his right to question, something completely normal. He says -- if they're protected by immunity, maybe even journalists need to protect the law when asking questions. I know that in this country, many socio-political workers, who call themselves journalists, and this has not been shown by the fact that you have several ambassadors today, and the half-letters, who speak no language. Where did you put them all? Is it true what I'm saying? From Havana to Manila, there is no place where there is one of those semi-literate, which no language on the globe can speak, not even Serbian properly and properly. Serbian citizens pay them out of here, so they can behave rudely, recklessly and say they have the right to say -- you know, we have indications, so we checked on the phone and found that it was run by the name Tomislav Nikolic. I ask you, what would you do? It may not seem particularly significant to some people in Serbia today, but after that story about the murders in Antino, where the Lord Toma Nikolic was killing someone, so nobody knows who else, when, let alone any evidence was made out, we said it would continue, we knew that they would continue. What's next? They say - we didn't say, someone else said. What's next? What happens tomorrow? Then you're talking about professionalism, objectivity. I see you're ashamed, you know I'm right, you know I'm telling you the truth myself. What do you want tomorrow, we tell people we're going for a media walk. Who's gonna keep these people? What are they gonna do? How do you tell them? You can only shoot eggs. We can't stage a protest because we're afraid of what people would do, how angry people are about them. They were the same ones who justified Dragoljub Milanovic's link, the same ones who spoke -- them, where they didn't kill him and he deserved it. These are the socio-political workers who gave themselves the right to salt everyone's brains and behave - we're very smart, so we'll tell you, and you can't answer us. Well, listen, we can't answer that. You're very brave. You're all very brave and smart. The time has come to change things in Serbia, the truth will have to come out in the open, and it is slowly coming out. Those of you who support them, both in thieving and in crime, and in how the state property is going to take away the wake, you who support such attitudes just think about it. And we always tell you: we are your best opposition, we are people who love in a decent way to deal with our political opponents, here in parliament, not the poles, not the axes, not the guns, like you did, but here in the National Assembly, without the people, because there is no need for people to fight and no head of Serb or anyone whose head should get hurt because of our chairs. But we're warning you, if you think there's only one end to the beating, you're wrong. If this continues in such a way, no one will be able to prevent not only our members and supporters, but Serbian citizens from taking justice into their own hands. Then think about where who and how and how it ends. I'm telling you in advance, it's no threat, because we're going to do everything we can to end up in the institutions of the system of things, but make sure you take care of the authorities that you're encouraging, how and in what way someone can respond, because tomorrow someone can accuse you of killing someone tonight without you having anything to do with it. How would you feel? To say it was just a question, and you say no, I didn't kill anyone. Then let the whole of Serbia think whether or not you are. For us today in our country, it is most important to try to talk rationally, try to calm our passions and try to negotiate Kosovo and Metohija. It is obvious that some authorities do not think about it, they are thinking about how to skip the censorship, they are thinking about how to lower the rating to Serbian radicals. We won't let you do that. It is not difficult for us to fight for the truth in these afternoons, for our voters and for the citizens of Serbia. That's what we'll continue. Think carefully about why all these lies and deceptions do not help your rating increase and ours reduces. On the contrary, our rating is increasing from day to day, even because of these lies it will be higher and I am confident that the citizens of Serbia have such a kind of hickey and campaign and such a criminal relationship with someone who absolutely doesn't deserve to be punished.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22886	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. In particular, thank you for drawing everyone's attention to the fact that it is possible for a part of the MPs to follow from the premises and that it may be a gesture towards the president who returned to the Legislative Committee to decide that all amendments that read "is deleted", and that they have been submitted to all members of a law, rejected and not discussed. I am still firmly on the point that all amendments must be discussed and that is why I have made the Committee change this decision, and now we can discuss it, and of course we can consult each other about it in order to do our job. Once again, I ask you also to take advantage of your influence, you and the other MPs, and the other MPs, to show that commitment to such a democratic one, exclusively by law, conduct and by supporting gestures of people who react immediately from their positions when such lies are brought forth, not that we further humiliate them in institutions while doing their jobs. That's why I've been giving consultations for five minutes to confirm this together. Have an understanding, we'll continue in five minutes. [[After break – 00,40]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm asking if there's any other MPs who would like to discuss Mr. Krstin's amendment to Article 37; no. Thank you. The 38th amendment was submitted by MP Bora Kutic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The word has the People's MP Milan Škrbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22888	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, SRS MP Bora Kutic has submitted an amendment to this law. I will try to explain, for example, that all these members are not good and that they do not belong to this law, although we can also link this article to this business of connected persons. We of the SRS know who is connected with whom, and we speak daily about the congregation speaker who is connected with whom, so we do not need this member. That is why, among other things, we have put this member, like everyone else, to be deleted for those well - known reasons. When we talk about operational risk and business with related persons and the ban on lending to shareholders, legal transactions with connected persons, all of this is covered by one truth or a lie. How much you trust this government and the rest of the ministry. Why am I saying that? How can we believe and how can the citizens of Serbia believe? I'm sorry this is the time of night, which is probably not looking the way it's supposed to be, and the best time to talk. You see, how can I trust the ministry and how Serbian citizens believe. The projected inflation for this year was the way the ministry brought it to the public that it would be below the two-digit number, and it is already around 18%, and by the end of the year there will be 20%. It's on one side and it's really true. The whole of Serbia knows that in particular Minister Dinkic spoke, when we discussed the budget for this year, that inflation will certainly be nine and a half percent. The whole of Serbia knows that's not true. I'm sorry the minister's not here right now, because he's on the Finance Committee, because I've been talking about the non-believer in what's been designed. In this Europe, in which this government seeks to go at all costs, I repeat at all costs, we know if inflation exceeds 1% of what was designed by both the Minister and the Governor and the complete government would resign. It's not 1%, it's 100%. The minister is still sitting with this government and, of course, the people have no confidence in this ministry, as well as in this government. I won today, Mr. Vukic said that the citizens of Serbia are calling us daily, so today the memos and phone calls are coming, and this is exactly the mistrust. Citizens' mistrust in this government, which is why they're talking to us, the SRS parliamentary group. In particular, I'm from the municipality of Apatin, but I've been approached by an unbeliever and one request from the damaged agricultural producers of the Landland municipality. It is addressed to the National Assembly and to the SRS parliamentary group. The request concerns the payment of damages from floods suffered in the municipality of Plandište in 2005. In the municipality of Plandište, which was hit by the flood this year, the Commission for the Assessment of Suspension, formed by representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Regional Government, the municipality of Plandište and every local community, made up a list of agricultural producers who suffered damage and made the compensation directly into the producer's dedicated accounts. A large number of agricultural producers did not receive funds for the damage suffered for unknown reasons. They spoke to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management and, behold, it is again a resort belonging to the G17 Plus. The infidelity of these people in government, and all they have left to do is trust us. Speaking of this subject and these banks, we could really talk not all night, but all week, day and night, as we do. Foreign banks, and yet, I say, I regret that the minister is not here, have brought capital to Serbia, but, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, they place it to the citizens of Serbia at a very high price, or as our people would say, they lend it to but the urn. That's true. The fact is, in a year and a half, foreign bankers placed over 60 billion dinars with us, according to the data we have from the SRS. Each loan is secured by a foreign exchange clause on one side, and on the other, they reach up to 19% on citizens' loans. The reason is that it is a great risk to invest in this thorny area, such as Serbia. We of the SRS claim that in fact they have found a country of Serbia and a paradise within it to obtain extraprofits in a short time. The people, the citizens of Serbia, and even the businessmen, have long been unable to access the loan at all. We all know that both the economy and the citizens are hungry for these loans, and that's actually one bait. Many raise loans, know that they are unfavourable and simply to survive and to eat and to buy winter, heat and to educate children, they are forced. One conclusion could be made, it's not hard to perform, that it's all made possible planically, and we know who made it possible. Foreign banks can't make that kind of profit anywhere in their Europe. We have a situation, and we also know that these banks that have come to our market can't make that kind of profit in the surrounding countries, which is an interesting data, and they're also poor, they're also in transition or they're poorer than our country. If the minister were here, I know what I'd say; how the foreign banks brought in the capital and revived the loans. But, ladies and gentlemen, the money at those interest rates, the largest in the whole region, and that's the official data I'm making here. It is a very interesting data, related to bankers operating on our market, that mostly banks with majority foreign ownership opposed to showing effective interest, interest rates, or to translate, total credit prices, despite the warning that they must do so in a transparent manner, since the right applies in other countries and they are obliged in their countries to make it. They avoid it and bear no consequence. Once upon a time, at the Ministry of Finance, I think even the governor put it out in public. Foreign banks, according to some of the data that we came up with for this short time when this law came to this debate, have to invest more funds in the capital of their banks with us for security due to business and that's logical. If these banks want to run politics, not move around that ten-million-dollar minimum censorship. Banks with majority foreign ownership mostly place money in debt in their home banks and of course the demand for loans has been increasing lately, but their active engagement on our market has been observed, in order to give as much credit as possible under these unfavourable conditions. When we analyse the actual state and performance of these banks' operations on our Serbian market, we really come up with devastating data. Let's just say, I'm not going to name which bank it is, but a bank that made a net profit in 2003 enough to cover inherited losses and record a net positive result for the first year of business. The balance sheet was eleven times at the end of 2003, and before the end of last year, as much as 32 times higher than at the end of 2000. The same bank doubled its capital last year and increased it by almost 50m euros. We wonder whose money. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, seem to have only left to address the citizens, because only four of them sit with the president from the parliamentary majority, and I think it's interesting for the citizens to hear it. We'll do it again. It was truly illusory to expect that the arrival of foreign banks would automatically lead to a drop in interest rates. That's what the so-called so-called. Experts. Let us remember that when we talk about this law, because we must also mention interest margins. Let's remember at the end of 2002, they were extremely high, at 16.70% of the percentage points, to be reduced to 12.70% by next year. So last year, 11.67%. Compare with Croatia, we often compare ourselves to the countries in the environment, there last year was 7.5% of the percentage points. Ladies and gentlemen, in the eurozone countries, this amount is at a maximum of 0.85%. All of this shows that, after entering our market, foreign banks have used double advantage in achieving extraprofits: by imposing low interest on deposits, on one side, and high interest rates on loans or loans, as you will, as the people understand better. In the end, all that I've said is all in the conditions of huge demand for loans from Serbian citizens, as well as business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22889	Thank you, Mr. Squirt. The word has a People's MP, Momir Markovic, please count which MP is in front of you, as she otherwise voted in favour of the president both the position and the opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22890	I always use as much time as there is for the parliamentary group for that amendment. I would only like to explain this term to the citizens of Serbia and to the MPs - related persons. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, connected faces, come to you like this: Mirkovic, director of Southobank's exposition in Moscow, connects with Hamovic, the director of the exhibition, or representatives of the Energoproject in London, of course this representation in London and Moscow is being robbed, and Euroaxis bank is being connected. Of course, Drakulić, who robbed Genex's representation in London, was not connected here, he would be connected a little later, and then the bulldozer revolution came, the minister took the stocking off his head and then transferred the NBJ deposit to the Euroaxis bank with these connected faces, and then they connected the faces together, and then they built the National Savings and then it came all this way connected. Then when they sold the Greeks so connected, they sold him those 7.5 thousand square squares of business space, which the related group took from the PDO. Hamovic, now the other connection, connected with Dracula, so they made the same point, or Ju point, so they went, of course, the deposit from the Euroaxis Bank, the Serbian couples, all of it went through the same point, to buy a valid place in Sevojn, to buy Klas and buy some more things. That's the link that brought us the bulldozer revolution. That's why there's a couple of members here in this causal-consequential relationship, and when you move that relationship around a little bit, you stretch it out, and it's more like those dolls at the end all of those things that I've been talking about for a while.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22891	Thank you, I hope they're all connected. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Lalic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The word is from the People's Messenger Nikola Lalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22892	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not talk about this category of connected persons spoken of by fellow MP Momir Markovic. I will say something about the second category of persons related, i.e. the amendment that I submitted on behalf of the SRS to Article 39, says that it is prohibited to grant loans to persons who are shareholders in banks for a year or from the time of obtaining the permit until the start of work. According to this article, these measures are factually wrong, because if we look at Article 33, everything is regulated, therefore, the relationship of shareholders in banks, or regulated if the obligations of shareholders are regulated by the law on the percentage of participation in the capital of the bank, then we have on the other hand where the credit law also regulates that part of the transaction. The question is whether or not the bank's reputation will be violated in the approval of these loans. That's what Markovic was talking about in the second part, which I mentioned. I don't think the bank's reputation will be violated here. An act the bank would lend credit to also does not violate its reputation or its business. This could be disrupted by some other kind of crime. That's why I filed for this article to be deleted. However, I would ask the Minister's question, today he brought out one thing that is impossible for me, which is that the stable banks are with us today, and the funds, and that pensions will no longer wait as they have been waiting. In Serbia, there are several ways of sending people into retirement and in fact more ways of granting a solution. There is a 15-day pension solution waiting for some regions for three or four months, with an explanation that the pensioner can go on vacation. What bothers every worker, and also our MPs, is that it's impossible for one firm to send someone on vacation for three, four, five months until he gets a pension solution. This means that so many pensions, in fact, this government is denying him if he's forced to retire.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22893	Thank you. On the occasion of the same amendment, the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22894	Ladies and gentlemen, I've been told by some of my colleagues today, and I'm not going to particularly explain this way of reacting to this bill, which is that we've asked for all the members to be deleted. We said that this is how we showed our relationship to the inconclusiveness of the government and the president of the assembly towards the parliamentary groups in this House. You have heard a lot of concrete remarks about this law, but the principle remark that can be put in place and which is obvious in Article 39, as well as in the next Article 40, is that this law means that the government of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance and Minister Dinkic want to legalise everything that has been happening in banks since so-called. democratic change in Serbia, which is said since the democratic robbery of Serbia, is what one of your friends' books is called, so a teaching book. So everything that's been done in the banking system you wanted to legalize with this law. Then you came into a legally absurd situation that a large number of provisions of this law actually need to be applied retroactively, which is of course, at least the lawyers should know that, unconstitutionally. We expect from the SRS, if you accidentally pass this law, if you have a majority after the vote of the budget, which is a question of whether you will have a parliamentary majority, therefore, if that happens, we expect that the Constitutional Court must react to this law, regardless of whether it has any initiative and whether or not the President of the Constitutional Court is a functioner of the party G17 and has so far made all decisions in the interest of the G17. To remember the time Vučetic and his Constitutional Court decided that the mandates belonged to the MPs, it was still at the time when the G17 stole the MPs in the Assembly, which was the first in this parliament, of course, in the previous assembly. So, we expect the Constitutional Court's response, and we of the SRS will certainly take that initiative on our part, but in the Constitutional Court there are ours, Krasic, help me, 50 initiatives, which are not even close to being put on the agenda. But when we talk about Article 39, I'm also going to talk about Article 40, since they're really connected, in article 39, you say, "the bank can't grant loans to its shareholders before the deadline of one year from the day it started to operate." If I could repeat the related banks that Momir Markovic had just said, then I would ask you how many shareholders of these banks, before the deadline of one year, had already received those loans. And that he happens to be a minister in torn jeans, but in a suit in this House, then we would ask him to explain to us which shareholders have already taken those loans, and we claim that they are, and how does the minister think he finance and the Ministry of Finance to apply this Article 39? Only a member of the 40th says, "The legal business that the bank concludes contrary to the conditions prescribed by the members from 37th to 39th of this law is nothing." I remind you, members of 37 to 39 talk about related persons, or 39 about shareholders. It's said if they're closed. So this law assumes that there have been legal transactions that have been concluded against the conditions laid down in these Articles 37, 38 and 39, and then Article 40 says that these jobs are nothing. I remind my colleagues of the law above all that means the futility of the contract. At the same time, I'm asking, how do you think you're suspending the consequences of these legal transactions that you're providing for in article 40, which should definitely be done? Do you know how much money, contrary to Article 40 and according to these previous members, is engaged through loans, through connected persons, connected banks. That money is who knows how many times they've turned around and who knows what link these chains are and how they think someone who thinks they're capable of applying Article 40 to make these legal deals nothing. He can say that they are nothing, but who can make them nothing, that is, the consequences that these legal affairs have caused, because that is the essence of the futility of some legal business. I know that you, or representatives of the government, and I suppose fellow MPs who have read this law, are fully aware of this, but you think, now let's write it in the law, and then let's do what we've done illegally and under the grains. So when a new power comes very quickly, after the next elections – I think Zoran Krasic spoke about that we will have to apply this law for at least six or seven months, because there will simply be no time for all of this to change so quickly – then in that time you will hunt in a blur. That's why we Serbian radicals react to these amendments, and this way, and try to at least warn the Constitutional Court that if this law is passed, it is unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22895	Thank you very much, Mrs. Radeta. I checked, and you worried me, the proposal did not indicate that there are views with retroactive fact, nor in the report of the Legislative Committee, but I would ask once again to check, if there is, that the Assembly would have to declare in the voting day. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22896	Mr. Markovic, I don't think a few minutes up and down means anything to this debate. But I'd like to draw your attention to something dangerous that's getting ready to rush through a bill like this. Commissioners, if there are any of them here, I would just like to warn you that the term "connected faces" is defined by Article 2 on page 2. The bill's proposal, so just for example, I'm going to read one of these dots, there's six of them -- they're thought to be connected if there's a case from at least one of these six situations. This is the situation that two or more legal or natural persons are connected so that one of them has a part in another. Another case that could happen, that the legal and physical persons are connected so that the physical person is the proxies of the legal person. So that's the situation when they become connected faces. The provisions of Articles 37 to 39 prescribed what would be a ban on a bank compared to those associated persons. Article 37 says that those persons cannot have more favourable conditions in front of the bank, and Article 38 speaks comprehensively about legal affairs, so that as a legal job, not only is banking business, taking and giving credit, guarantees, etc., but the job where the bank buys something that is necessary for its business and enters into a debt-trust relationship with something that is a physical or technical aspect of the bank's operating costs (paper procurement, soap purchase). It's all legal business and they're under some restricted sector. In the case of connected persons, the bank may, with a connected person, do such a job, provided that the transaction was previously approved by the bank's written board of directors. If there is no written approval of the Governing Board of the Bank, such legal work shall be void. Now let's move from soap to much more significant amounts of funds, which can be very skillfully presented as a business cost. It could be bus rental, building repair, installation of the information system, it could be marketing services, it could be advertising, propaganda, sponsorship, donation. All of this could be the cost of being laundered, Mr. President. We had a law before this law to prevent money laundering, and here we have a legalized form of money laundering. Article 39 indicates that the connected person could not take credit from the bank within one year from the date on which it began to operate. We don't have a prescription in the law which is the day the bank starts to operate, because we have two preliminary stages until the work permit, and then we have a registration, so it's probably a start date after registration with the competent state authority. I told you all this because the founders of the bank enter into the establishment of the bank with their capital, because they count on their business to secure at the end of the year profits and on the basis of dividends to make more money than that money they invested in the establishment of the bank, they invested in some kind of production. This means that the profit-based profit-making of the bank represents a greater amount for them than some profit from other business activities, let's say, be it trade or some kind of production. However, we also have the founders of banks who expect, if they establish a bank, to obtain the right to cross-connected, and to the bank connected, since the second term is after this, or through their daughter-in-laws, in a way they can also be legitimated to the bank under the benefits of their bank, providing cheap assets, which as a craftsman would invest in their production, and then double-earned: once as shareholders, and secondly as customers of their bank's cheap assets, by not seeing it, and this law allows us not to see it. It's nothing new.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22897	You agree to keep talking after the next amendment, since it's connected, so I don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22898	So this math and this technique is famous. Mr. Markovic was interesting to describe what it was like to connect without handcuffs on his hands. Phase two is handcuffed. These people, mentioned by Mr. Markovic, know that probably any normal government would be counting on the Italian handcuff product, since they are the best quality. It's on the side. Mr. President, you would have to make the most of your authority to use, of course, not to spend it, but to use it, because everything we've been criticising forward, pointing out and trying with some arguments to prove it, is at the end of this law. Now I would ask this minority of the parliamentary majority to read Article 135 and Article 136 of this bill, and I would ask those of the Republic Secretariat for legislation, including Mr Stojkovic, Minister of Justice, to be included in some way, to seek the help of Professor Zoran Stojanovic, who worked on Criminal Law - how is it possible to prescribe a criminal offence for a legal person? It's in this law. Article 135 regulates the criminal act, and says, "Whoever is involved in receiving deposits without a license to the NBS will be punished for the crime of three months to five years in prison." Who deals with this business - a legal person who is supposed to be a bank and not a bank. In the last position, it says: "The person responsible in the legal face will be punished for the work referred to in Articles 1 and 2 of this article." This corresponds to a formulation that usually monitors business crimes and violations, not crimes. Criminal acts are referred to as a physical person. You've been distracting us all day and half night to talk about something that cannot exist in the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. That's rude, Mr. Markovic. This can't go through with the law. It's a similar thing with Article 136, except he's not treating the receipt of deposits, but he's treating the lending and the issuing of payment cards, so again he's talking about a legal person as the perpetrator of the crime. The connected faces, as you gave them, are an organized crime group. Furthermore, Mr. President, Article 137, in one of these points which are called for in Article 38, paragraphs 2 to 5, a penalty is prescribed for a commercial offence for a legal person from 300,000 to 3,000,000 dinars and for a responsible person in that legal person from 50,000 to 200,000 dinars. If someone's using that 10% limit on basic capital, it's a million euros. What about whoever took a million euros to pay a fine of 500,000 dinars? You're telling us that this is expert, that this is professional, that this is consistent with Europe, with the world, with bin Laden, with George Bush, with Putin, with everyone. How shame you've been harassing us all night, to prove to you that you're not aware of what you've written. Mr. President, please interrupt this session, inform the Prime Minister of this incident and say that the governor of the National Bank has planted the Minister here and that he is probably out of trouble, when he saw it, wearing jeans.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22899	I'm sure I'll appreciate all the suggestions. Thank you, Mr. Krassic. The 40th Amendment was submitted by Srboljub Marinkovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the MP Srboljub Marinkovic. There's 11 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22900	I've submitted an amendment to article 40. The article reads: "The legal business that the bank concludes contrary to the conditions laid down in Articles 37 to 39 of this law is nothing." As you've heard, my predecessors have spoken a lot about it. I will remind you that it is a similar situation, and from the newspapers you saw, that Mr Jelasic bought with the help of his villa's loan, so it is now impossible to prove whether he received the loan under favourable conditions and how. Of course, he could have given that bank that assigned him a guarantee and a work permit and that we can't prove it right now, although there is protection from the minister. What my colleague said, the fines are very low, because the amount when taken from one to five million euros, for the users of these loans, is fines small. Minister Dinkic presented in a previous statement the fact that loans are favourable for citizens, which is not true at all. The fact is that currently the loans used are consumer loans and they cause inflation. We here in these members see that individual funds that are being obtained, and citizens, workers, who are taking severance payments for the past working hours, they are using their own resources at the moment, and they are not investing in production. There is a vision of the growth of standards, which is at the expense of the state and the citizens themselves. We're in a position to say that even peasants are using these loans, not currently investing in production, because this production has been standing since this year. It wasn't sold, it wasn't bought. They're supposed to be used to buy some new machines. It will all go to interest, so the SRS does not support this banking law at all, which was proposed to the National Assembly to adopt an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22901	According to the same amendment, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22902	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, we expected Minister Dinkic to return from his change. I didn't know it was a big problem to put on a suit, change jeans, but apparently he didn't want to respect either you or the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is pointless for MPs to say anything about the proposed amendments, when there is no minister here who is able to accept or reject the proposed amendment to any member and the position of the proposed law. No other person in his name can do so, and for that reason, and because of the way this session takes place, in which there are seven MPs of the assembly majority, which Albianic would say, two bosses – you are good bosses when you are only seven, the big bosses. I'm not worried that your army is so small, I'm worried about the state as well. This is really one kind of legal violence and trying to get us all here, and there are 30 MPs of the SRS who have been preparing to speak for the amendments, but this doesn't make any sense anymore, and we don't want you to say tomorrow that we're responsible for some kind of grumbling and harassing you, but because of the fact that you don't respect the National Assembly, that Minister Mladjan Dinkic doesn't respect the assembly, the citizens of Serbia, the MPs, because you think you're going to achieve something with vampire sessions, and we have no one to talk to at two in the morning, because normal people are asleep, preparing for a job of six, seven and eight in the morning, some of nine, since you've introduced this European working time. So neither can we talk to them, nor can we talk to you, nor can you answer us, nor do you want to listen to what we're talking about, nor has he changed the jeans and we have nothing else to do but leave the session, we will not attend any more.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-24-0.u22903	Thank you for your clearly stated attitude, Mr. Wolfie. Correction works towards all MPs, be kind, for the importance of the health law, which is on the agenda, on Friday at 10 pm, so today at 10 is the continuation of the session, the debate in particular, when this debate is over, we are discussing in detail the sixth law on the agenda of this session. On the 40th, do any other MPs want? No, I don't. ) Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Dragoslav Milkovic submitted to the 44th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 45th Amendment was submitted by Vitomir Milosevic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Mitrovica. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 49th Amendment was submitted by MP Pai Momchilov. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 50th Amendment was submitted by Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 51 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Penezic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragutin Peric. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 54th Amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 55 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 56 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milet Poscurica. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 57 of the amendment was submitted by the MP of the Verica Radet. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Zlatko Radic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 60th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 61st Amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Rankovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Ambassador Prvoslav Savic submitted to Article 63 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Dragoljub Simonovic submitted to the 64th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I apologize, I do not read the decision of the Legislative Committee, because at the outset I said that the Legislative Committee had declared all amendments legally possible. An MP, Slavisa Slavkovic, submitted to the 65th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleiman Spaho. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to Article 67 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 68 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mihajlo Stevanović. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 69 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Stevović. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 70 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stojan Tintor. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 71st Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Todorovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 72 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vuceta Toskovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 73rd amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 74th Amendment was submitted by MP Stojan Cvetkovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Ambassador Lazar Cavic submitted to Article 75 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 76th Amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 77 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 78th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 79 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 80 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mit Avramov. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 81 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mit Avramov. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 82nd Amendment was submitted by Dragoljub Anastasovski. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 83rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 84 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 85 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branislav Blazic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 87 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 88 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Zivan Vladimirovic submitted to Article 89 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 90th Amendment was submitted by MP Boban Vojnovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 91 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milivoje Vukovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 92 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Vukic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Gajic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 94 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Rodoljub Gačević. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 95 of the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 96 of the amendment was submitted by MP John Day. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 96th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milomir Minić and Jovan Todorovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 97th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stevica Dedjanski. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 98 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milos Disic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 99th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 99th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milomir Minić and Jovan Todorovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 100th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Dunjic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 101 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Dunjic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Alexander Djordjevic submitted to Article 102 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Miodrag Djordjevic submitted to Article 103 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 104 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tihomir Đuricic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 105 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 106 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stefan Zankov. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 107 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Branislav Jankovic submitted to Article 108 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 110 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 111 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 112 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Srjo Komazec. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 113 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Bozidar Koprivica and Milomir Minić and Jovan Todorovic together submitted. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 114 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 115 of the amendment was submitted by MP Blagoja Krajinović. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 116 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Krasic.. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 118 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bora Kutic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Lalic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 120 of the amendment was submitted by Srboljub Marinkovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 121 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 122 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 123 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Dragoslav Milkovic submitted to Article 124 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 125 of the amendment, Vitomir Milosevic submitted. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 126 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 127 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 128 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Mitrovica. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 129th Amendment was submitted by MP Pai Momchilov. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 130 of the amendment was submitted by Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 131 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Penezic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Dragutin Peric. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 133th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 134 by Vitomir Plužarevic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by Gordana Pop-Lazic to Article 135. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) An MP named Milet Poscurica submitted to Article 136 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 137 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Zlatko Radic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ivan Radic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 140th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 141 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 142 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Rankovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 143 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Prvoslav Savic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by Dragoljub Simonovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Slavisa Slavkovic submitted to Article 145 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 146 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleiman Spaho. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Dragoljub Stamenković submitted to Article 147 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Mihajlo Stevanović submitted to Article 148 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 149 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Stevović. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I am informing all MPs once again that today, on Friday, due to the importance of the laws on the agenda, and as far as health is concerned, the session will continue at 10.00 hours. I thank you for the responsibility of all the MPs and those present who participated in this marathon work, but I hope for the sake of reforming the laws and responsibilities of our country's obligations. I thank all the representatives of the ministry, who, according to the Rules of Procedure, participated in the work in an adequate manner. Thank you so much, good night and good night.
