ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24368	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the work of the Eighth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. On the basis of official records of the presence of the MPs, 130 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. there are working conditions. Since there is no notice that the sittings are prevented from being attended by some MPs, and since the National Assembly has conducted a search on all the points of the agenda of this session, we will move to a decision after the break at 10:30. Meanwhile, the Legislative Committee is sitting. Thank you. [[After the break, 10.55.]] We're going back to work. Please take your seats. Since we're going to move on to a decision, I'm asking you to make sure there's a quorum to decide on. I'm asking the MPs to insert their identification cards into the e-system MPs. Thank you. The application of the electronic system has shown that 129 MPs are present in the O.R. and that we can start voting. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Allocation of TRANSFER RESISTANCES FROM THE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA AND THE PARTICIPATION OF COMMUNITY, CITY AND THE CITY OF BELEGRAD IN 2006. THE year since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the allocation of transfer funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget and the participation of municipalities, cities and cities of Belgrade in profit tax in 2006, in principle. For 130, he did not vote one out of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The 3rd amendment, with correction, was filed by Bojan Kekic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment, with correction, legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 23, against 100, a abstentioned one, did not vote seven, out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The third amendment was submitted by Živojin Stefanovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 23, against 68, a abstentioned one, did not vote 39, out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Toma Busetic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 29, against 97, six out of 132 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Bogoljub Pejcic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 31, against 95, six out of 132 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 29, v 97, abstention one, did not vote five, of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Hranislav Peric has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 3a be added after Article 3a. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 29, against 93, a abstentioned one, was not voted nine out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the allocation of transfer funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget and the participation of municipalities, cities and cities of Belgrade in profit tax in 2006, as a whole. For 128, against two, they did not vote two out of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a bill on the distribution of transfer funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget and the participation of municipalities, cities and the city of Belgrade in profit tax in 2006. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of a commitment to the Republic Fund for Pensions and Invalidal Security of Employees under the basis of non-paid pensions and monetary compensations since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill's proposal, in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of taking over the commitments of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Employees made on the basis of outstanding pensions and fines, in principle. For 130, he did not vote one out of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has adopted the bill, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 105, it did not vote 26 out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 100, 29 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by the MP, Ms Radet. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 103, 28 of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 104, 27 of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, it did not vote 30 out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the commitments of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Employees made on the basis of outstanding pensions and fines, in general. For 130, he did not vote one out of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of the commitments of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Employees made on the basis of outstanding pensions and fines. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of a commitment to the Republic Fund for Pensions and INVALID OBLIGATION OF THE PUBLIC ASSESSMENT OF THE SERVANTS REFERRED TO IN THE BASIC REFERRED TO IN THE BASIC REFERENCE OF UNPAYMENTS AND MONEY REFERENCES Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the commitments made by the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Farmers made on the basis of outstanding pensions and fines, in principle. For 131 of the 131 people's MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 108, they did not vote 23, out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 105, it did not vote 26 out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Angelkovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 104, five out of 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 103, 27 of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. One, against 105, was not voted 26 out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 102, 29 of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 102, 29 of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the commitments of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Farmers made on the basis of outstanding pensions and fines, in general. For 128, it did not vote four out of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of the commitments of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Farmers made on the basis of outstanding pensions and fines. We move to the 4th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Change and Completion of the Law on Social Protection and Security of Social Security of Citizens Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Social Protection and Social Security Act, in principle. For 128, they didn't vote three out of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has adopted the bill, in principle, we are moving to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 99, a abstentioned one, did not vote 10, of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For five, against 104, a abstentioned one, they did not vote 22, of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 106, it did not vote 26 out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 16th Amendment was submitted by Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 104, it was not 28 out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Social Protection and Social Security Act, in general. For 130, they did not vote two out of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Social Protection and Social Security Act. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Financial Support to the Family with DECOM Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Financial Support Act for the family with children, in principle. One of the 132 MPs did not vote for 131. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has adopted the bill, in principle, we are moving to a decision on amendments. The second amendment was submitted by Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 104, 27 of the 132 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 103, 29 of the 132 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 104, it was not 28 out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 102, 30 of the 132 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. An MP named Milet Poscurica submitted to the 8th Amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 103, 27 of the 132 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, he did not vote 31, of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 104, it was not 28 out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 105, 27 of the 132 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Hranislav Peric and Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 101, the vote was not 9 out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Vojislav Milajic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 105, 27 of the 132 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Financial Support Act to the family with children, in general. For 132, of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children. We move on to the 6th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE HYPOTECA After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill, in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the mortgage bill to the vote, in principle. For 128, against one, two of the 131 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. National MP Jovan Palalic submitted the title above Article 1 of the amendment. The proposer's representative, during the review of the draft law in particular, accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24370	For 127, it did not vote four out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Stevovic. The applicant's representative did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 107, they did not vote 24, out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The applicant's representative did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 100, 30 of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. During the review of the draft law in particular, the Proposer's representative accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 118, against one, did not vote 13, out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The title above Articles 3 and 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The applicant's representative did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 103, 29 of the 132 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The applicant's representative did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 102, 30 of the 132 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. The proposer's representative, during the review of the draft law in particular, accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 108, against one, they did not vote 22, out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The title above Article 5 was submitted by Jovan Palalic. The proposer's representative, during the review of the draft law in particular, accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 115, 17 of the 132 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The title above article 6 and article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. The proposer's representative, during the review of the draft law in particular, accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 115, 17 of the 132 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 6th amendment. The applicant's representative did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 106, 25 of the 132 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The applicant's representative did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 103, it was not 28 out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. The proposer's representative, during the review of the draft law in particular, accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 124, it did not vote eight out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The proposer's representative, during the review of the draft law in particular, accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 116, it did not vote 16 out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The applicant's representative did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 103, 29 of the 132 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. The proposer's representative, during the review of the draft law in particular, accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 118, it did not vote 14, of 132 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. The proposer's representative, during the review of the draft law in particular, accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 114, 17 of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The applicant's representative did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 104, it was not 28 out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The applicant's representative did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 106, it did not vote 26 out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The proposer's representative, during the review of the draft law in particular, accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 98, against five, a abstentioned one, did not vote 27, out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. At the title of Head 3 above Article 15, MP Jovan Palalic submitted the amendment. The proposer's representative, during the review of the draft law in particular, accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 119, 12 of the 131 MPs were not voted. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. The proposer's representative, during the review of the draft law in particular, accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 125, it did not vote 6, out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 15th amendment. The proposer's representative, during the review of the draft law in particular, accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 101, 29 of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The title above Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. The proposer's representative, during the review of the draft law in particular, accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 116, 15 of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The proposer's representative, during the review of the draft law in particular, accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 121, 10 of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted this amendment. The title above Article 17 was submitted by Jovan Palalic. The proposer's representative, during the review of the draft law in particular, accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 123, there was no vote of 8 out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The applicant's representative did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, they did not vote 33, out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The applicant's representative did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, they did not vote 32 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 18th amendment. The proposer's representative, during the review of the draft law in particular, accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 115, it did not vote 16 out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The applicant's representative did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 100, he did not vote 31, out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 20th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The applicant's representative did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 96, it did not vote 35 out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The applicant's representative did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, they did not vote 34 out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 22nd Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Verica Radet. The applicant's representative did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, he did not vote 31, of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The applicant's representative did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 99, they did not vote 32 out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 27th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stevica Dedjanski. The applicant's representative did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 100, they did not vote 32, out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. The proposer's representative, during the review of the draft law in particular, accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 118, against one, did not vote 13, out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 34th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Mitrovica. The applicant's representative did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against the 90s, they did not vote 42 out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 35th amendment. The applicant's representative did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 102, 30 of the 132 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 36th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The applicant's representative did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 100, 30 of the 132 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Jovan Palalic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 36a be added after article 36a. The proposer's representative, during the review of the draft law in particular, accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 116, against one, it did not vote 15 out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 37th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stevovic. The applicant's representative did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 98, they did not vote 32 out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On behalf of Glava Tri, the title above the member and Article 38, the amendment was submitted by MP Bora Kutic. The applicant's representative did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 104, it was not 28 out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 38th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. The proposer's representative, during the review of the draft law in particular, accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 112, 20 of the 132 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Ambassador Vojislav Milajic submitted to the 39th amendment. The proposer's representative, during the review of the draft law in particular, accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 116, a abstentioned one, it did not vote 15, of 132 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic submitted together to the 40th amendment. The proposer's representative, during the review of the draft law in particular, accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 112, against seven, a abstentioned one, had not voted 11 out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. The proposer's representative, during the review of the draft law in particular, accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 119 against two, it did not vote 11 out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. The applicant's representative did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 100, 30 of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 50th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The applicant's representative did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 103, 27 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. At Part Six, titles above members and members 56, 57, 58, 59, 60 and 61 were submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The applicant's representative did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 102, it was not 28 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 56th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. The proposer's representative, during the review of the draft law in particular, accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 114, it was not 16 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 57th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. The proposer's representative, during the review of the draft law in particular, accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 114, it was not 16 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic submitted together to the 57th amendment. The proposer's representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 101, 29 of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 58th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. The proposer's representative, during the review of the draft law in particular, accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 114, there was no 18 vote, of 132 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this amendment. National MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meho Omerovic have submitted a joint amendment suggesting that in Articles 58, 59, 61 and 63 the word "Agency" be replaced by the words "Immobility Catalogue" in the corresponding decline. The proposer's representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 104, it was not 28 out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 59th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. The proposer's representative, during the review of the draft law in particular, accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 119, 13 out of 132 MPs were not voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Since this amendment has been accepted, it is necessary to carry out a legal-technical editorial. We'll have a break of a few minutes, so the Legislative Committee can do it. Please don't leave the O.R., because we'll continue very soon. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we continue to work, I ask you to establish a quorum. Since we have a quorum for working and voting, we continue. National MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic submitted together to the 60th amendment. The proposer's representative did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 105, they did not vote 24 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 60th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. In the course of the review of the draft law, the draft amendment has been adopted in particular, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 122, against one, it did not vote eight out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Before we continue to decide on the amendments, it is necessary for the National Assembly to declare on the legal and technical redistribution of the text of the Mortgage Law proposal, which was implemented by the Legislative Committee. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee containing a legal and technical editorial of the text of the Mortgage Law proposal. I am voting on a legal-technical order, which was carried out by the Legislative Committee. For 127, they did not vote four out of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the legal-technical order carried out by the Legislative Committee. Member of the 61st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. The proposer's representative, during the review of the draft law in particular, accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 122, 10 of the 132 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The applicant's representative did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 106, 25 of the 132 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 64th amendment. The applicant's representative did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 103, 29 of the 132 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I'm putting a vote on the mortgage bill, in general. For 128, against one, two of the 131 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on mortgages. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: – Stop duty, SECURATION AND CHOICE OF THE COURT OF COURT FUNCTIONS Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the motions for decisions, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges, number 119-2804/05. For 130, they did not vote two out of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect judges, number 119-2804/05. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of Judges No 119-2807/05. Three out of 132 MPs voted for 129. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect judges, number 119-2807/05. Since MPs have challenged a number of proposals by the High Council of Justice from the motion for a decision on the election of judges, No 119-2785/05, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 179(4). The Rules of Procedure on a proposal to elect each of the contested candidates, decides individually, and decides on a proposal to elect non-contested candidates, in general, by public vote. According to the above, we move to a decision. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Robert Jovanovic for the Judge of the Municipal Court in Pozarevc, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Zoran Krasic, Zarko Obradovic and Petar Cvetkovic. For 20, against one, with three abstentions, did not vote 108, out of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Robert Jovanovic as the municipal court judge in Pogorevec. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Cilla Tilger, whose candidacy has been challenged by MP Zoran Krasic, as the judge of the Municipal Court in Backo Topoli. For 128, they did not vote four out of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Chile Tilger as Judge of the Municipal Court in Backo Topoli. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Sladjan Jovanovic as the judge of the Municipal Court in Sapac, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zarko Obradovic. For 105, a abstentioned one, was not voted 27 by 133 MPs. I find the National Assembly has chosen Sladjana Jovanovic as the municipal court judge in Sapac. Since we have come to the conclusion on the contested proposals set out in the proposal for a decision, we are moving to a decision on a proposal for a decision, in general. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of Judges No 119-2785/05, without the disputed proposals on which the National Assembly had previously declared itself. For 129, they did not vote four out of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision on the election of judges, number 119-2785/05, without the disputed proposals that the National Assembly has previously declared. Since we have come to the conclusion on the motions for a choice of judges, issue 119-2804/05, 119-2807/05 and 119-2785/05, I ask if you agree that these adopted proposals are published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" as a legally-technically united act – a decision on the choice of judges? I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 130, they did not vote three out of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. Since MPs have challenged a number of proposals by the High Council of Justice from the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, No 119-2668/05, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 179(4). The Rules of Procedure on a proposal for the selection of each of the disputed candidates shall be decided individually, and a proposal for the selection of candidates who are not disputed shall be decided in general by public vote. According to the above, we move on to a decision. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Natasa Kuznetsov, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Zoran Krasic and Zarko Obradovic, for the President of the Municipal Court in Lajkovic. For 104 against one, there was no vote of 27, of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Natasha Kuznetsov as President of the Municipal Court in Lykovec. I put forward a proposal by the High Council of Justice to elect Jovan Velisavljevic for the President of the Municipal Court in Despotovac, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic. For 125, it did not vote seven out of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Jovan Velisavljevic as the President of the Municipal Court in Despotovac. I would like to vote on a proposal from the High Council of Justice to elect Miroslav Lepojevic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic for the President of the Municipal Court in Batocina. Nine out of 132 MPs voted for 123. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Miroslav Lepojevic as the President of the Municipal Court in Batocina. Since we have come to the conclusion on the contested proposals set out in the proposal for a decision, we are moving to a decision on a proposal for a decision, in general. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, number 119-2668/05, without the disputed proposals on which the National Assembly had previously declared itself. For 101, against one, two abstentions, were not voted 28 out of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect the President of the Court, number 119-2668/05, without the disputed proposals that the National Assembly has previously declared. Since MPs have challenged a number of proposals by the High Council of Justice from the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, No 119-2784/05, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 179(4). The Rules of Procedure on a proposal for the selection of each of the disputed candidates shall be decided individually, and a proposal for the selection of candidates who are not disputed shall be decided in general by public vote. According to the above, we move on to a decision. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Ljubisa R. Radulovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Petar Cvetkovic for the President of the District Court in Užica. For 12, a abstentioned one, it did not vote 117 out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not choose Ljubisa R. Radulovic as the President of the District Court in Uzic. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Veselin Savic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Petar Cvetkovic, for the President of the Trade Court in Leskovic. For 39, they didn't vote 92 out of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Veselin Savic as President of the Trade Court in Leskovac. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Dragica Stojanovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Petar Cvetkovic, for the President of the Municipal Court in Bor. For 36, a abstentioned one, they did not vote 92 out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Dragica Stojanovic as the president of the Municipal Court in Bor. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Mirjana Pajtic, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Zoran Krasic and Zarko Obradovic, for the President of the Municipal Court in Vladimirci. For 103, 28 of the 131 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Mirjana Pajtic as the president of the Municipal Court in Vladimirci. Since we have come to the conclusion on the contested proposals set out in the proposal for a decision, we are moving to a decision on a proposal for a decision, in general. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, number 119-2784/05, without the disputed proposals on which the National Assembly has previously declared itself. For 125, it did not vote six out of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect the President of the Court, number 119-2784/05, without the disputed proposals that the National Assembly has previously declared. Since MPs have challenged a number of proposals by the High Council of Justice from the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, No 119-2805/05, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 179(4). The Rules of Procedure on a proposal for the selection of each of the disputed candidates shall be decided individually, and a proposal for the selection of candidates who are not disputed shall be decided in general by public vote. According to the above, we move on to a decision. 1. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Biljana Nastasic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic, for the President of the Trade Court in Somboro. For 127, they did not vote four out of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Biljana Nastasic as president of the Sombor Trade Court. 2. I put forward a proposal by the High Council of Justice to elect Milan Blendic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic, for the President of the Municipal Court in Negotin. For 121 against one, nine of the 131 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has elected Milan Blendic as President of the Municipal Court in Negotin. 3. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Dusan Cetojevic, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Zoran Krasic, Zarko Obradovic and Petar Cvetkovic, for the President of the Municipal Court in Stari Pazova. For 16, with seven abstentions, it did not vote 108, out of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Dusan Cetojevic as President of the Municipal Court in Old Paz. Since we have come to the conclusion on the contested proposals set out in the proposal for a decision, we are moving to a decision on a proposal for a decision, in general. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, number 119-2805/05, without the disputed proposals on which the National Assembly has previously declared itself. For 126, against one, they did not vote four out of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect the President of the Court, number 119-2805/05, without the disputed proposals that the National Assembly has previously declared. Since we have agreed on the motions for a decision to elect the President of the Court, issue 119-2668/05, 119-2784/05 and 119-2805/05, I ask if you agree that these adopted proposals are published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", as a legally-technically united act – a decision on the election of the President of the Courts? I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 130, he did not vote one out of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. Since we have come to terms with all the suggestions, allow me to, on your behalf and on your behalf, congratulate the holders of judicial functions and wish for success in the work. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL ON DAVANIA CONTRAGRANTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE BY THE GROANING OF THE EUROPEAN INVESTICION BANK (Project of a comprehensive rehabilitation of the infrastructure of flight control – Serbia-Montenegro) Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill, in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the proposal for a law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on the loan of the European Investment Bank (Project of a comprehensive rehabilitation of the flight control infrastructure – Serbia-Montenegro), in principle. For 130, he did not vote one out of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 105, it did not vote 26 out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by the MP, Ms Radet. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 99, they didn't vote 32 out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 103, it was not 28 out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. MP Vojislav Milajic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 100, he did not vote 31, out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic, the government and the Legislative Committee, proposing that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 100, he did not vote 31, out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the proposal for a law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro after the loan of the European Investment Bank (Project of a comprehensive rehabilitation of the flight control infrastructure – Serbia-Montenegro), in general. For 130, he didn't vote one out of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a bill on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro following the loan of the European Investment Bank (Project of a comprehensive rehabilitation of the flight control infrastructure – Serbia-Montenegro). We move to a decision on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which the MPs pointed to during the session. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 100(4). The Rules of Procedure under which, and even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains on the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will decide without delay on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Zoran Krasic, at a session on 8 December 2005, at 17.45 p.m., pointed to a violation of members 104 and 28. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. For one, against 117, 12 of the 130 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the eighth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. The session is closed at 12.50 hours. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24372	The ninth session of the Second Regular Session on 22 December 2005 (The session began at 12.50 hours. The chairman of Vojislav Mihailovic, vice-president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24373	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the ninth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record, I find that the session is attended by 130 members of Parliament. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 114 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a new parliamentary group called the Parliamentary Group – For Europe's Serbia, consisting of 5 MPs. For the president of the parliamentary group, MP Ljiljana Nestorovic was appointed, and for her deputy, MP Slobodan Zivkucin. Since we have 128 MPs in the O.R., we can move on to the adoption of the minutes. You were presented the minutes of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that by verifying the Office for the Affairs of the Administrative Board, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has delivered the Committee in writing an objection to the minutes set out in that session. We're moving on to a decision on the record. I am voting on the minutes of the 7th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 28th, 29th and 30th November and 1st and 8th December 2005. For 118, it did not vote 10 out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 7th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 28, 29 and 30 November and 1st and 8th December 2005. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda acts by emergency procedure. The government proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 December 2005, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 106, against 21, they did not vote two out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The Securities Commission proposed that, by emergency procedure, the 2006 Commission's financial plan for the values of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 9 December 2005, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 11, against 8, the abstention of three, did not vote 106, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. National MP Milojub Albianic, president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, suggested that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 21 December 2005. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 165, against one, it did not vote 11 out of 177 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. A group of 43 MPs of the DSS parliamentary group suggested that, by emergency procedure, a point be placed on the agenda – the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 21 December 2005. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 177, six out of 183 MPs were not voted. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group, suggested putting the draft decision on the agenda on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 22 December 2005. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 177, six out of 183 MPs were not voted. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. Since we have made a statement on the proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure, pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. For 106, against 19, it did not vote 58, out of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the 9th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, in general. Dn e v n i r e d 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Criminal Procedure, submitted by the Government, 2. The election of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors: - Proposal for a decision on the election of public prosecutors, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice, - Proposal for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor, who submitted the High Council of Justice, 3. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was tabled by MP Milojub Albianic, president of the G17 plus, 4. The election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, based on a proposal tabled by a group of 43 MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, 5. The draft decision amending the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was tabled by MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group. We move to work according to the established agenda of the session. (Meho Omerovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Meho Omerovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24374	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I am advertising the violation of Rules of Procedure, Rule 225 and Article 226. I'd like the President of the Assembly to take his place, because he'll be able to answer this for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24375	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24376	Can you calm the MPs down? I see you've chosen Mr. Angelkovic as president of the assembly, but I would ask you to give me back my time, since I'm going to quote Article 226. The Rules of Procedure, which I call upon.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24377	You have time, all the time in this world, just go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24378	Thanks, buddy Bucky. Article 226. The Rules of Procedure say, "The MP has the right to request information and explanations from the president of the National Assembly... on issues within the scope of the rights and duties of officials, from the authority of the authority on which it is headed, which it needs to achieve the role of the MP" in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Today it is exactly a month as I asked the President of the Assembly, Mr Predrag Markovic, to be taken into account in the Office of the Assembly under regular number 114-2715/05, the following notice: On the basis of Articles 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. President, please provide me with information on official travel abroad from the National MPs of the Republic of Serbia Assembly in 2005. So today is exactly a month, neither from the president of the assembly nor from the secretary nor from the professional services in the Serbian Parliament, nor from any reply. However, given all that today, yesterday and the day before, we can read about the daily newspaper, what we can hear and see through electronic media, I fear that Mr. President of the Assembly could not or would not give me an answer and an explanation, because simply, if such things happen in the Serbian Parliament with travel expenses and living rooms when it comes to the country, what is only done when it comes to travel abroad. With that in mind, Mr. President, allow me to ask you a few more questions, and just by referring to Article 226. Rules of Procedure. First, we received and were able to read the delivery of information signed by the Secretary of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Marko Danilovic, who was listed under number 120-2998/05. Mr. President, with this in mind, calling again on Article 226, I ask you who and whose order did all the data on DSS MPs have been released, although it is known that, after the SRS, it is the parliamentary group that costs the most citizens of Serbia? In fact, I quoted Mr. Goran Paunovic, who gave the same statement to the media. Not that the DSS doesn't have MPs outside Belgrade, is it? Secondly, how can a party that does not exist from Serbian citizens take 1,761,971 dinar? I mean the People's Democratic Party. Why does the SDPO, although properly registered with the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government as a political organisation, not receive funds belonging to it under the Law on the financing of political parties and do SDPO MPs in some other way settle when it comes to the costs to them under the law? Mr. President, do some Belgrade lawmakers charge travel expenses on behalf of the residence they reportedly reported in municipalities far outside Belgrade and thus collect millions of amounts from the budget, i.e. from the citizens of Serbia? (President: Time.) One more question. Mr. President, it is known that someone would exercise the right of point 1) in a letter by Mark Danilovic on the official trip logs in the country, it is necessary that you, as president of the Assembly, give a solution and approve the official trip in the country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24379	The word is made by Parliament President Predrag Markovic, Replic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24380	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I think it's a good rule to give people what they're looking for. You asked for something, Mr. Omerovic, to which you have no right, which is to determine when anyone will chair the National Assembly and who will sit in which place, and I could not meet you, because I am responsible for my job, and I ask you to answer for yours. Article 226 reads, as a whole, "The MP has the right to request information and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials (not on issues under foreign rights and duties), from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the function of the MP". So if the MP, for example, asks for information on the official information of the second MP, and needs him to travel something, he is not subject to this article. By the way, only where the law exists, and the law is clear, brought by this congregation, about the availability of information. On that basis, everyone who requested information from the secretary, so the secretary, received information. All those looking for data from the National Assembly president's office received data. I remind you, the law must apply to everyone. So I understand the tolerance of Mr Angelkovic, who believes that some MPs have the right to speak six minutes in the Rules of Procedure. I understand that, I accept that, but I ask all of you who want to ask a parliamentary question, if it is a parliamentary question, it can be asked in writing, can be asked to be recorded, but it is not possible to answer for tasks of other people's jurisdiction. Fortunately, as you well noted, the secretary of the National Assembly gave a whole series of requested information. These MPs are no exception to other citizens. They were looking for that data from the press, they were looking for other organizations, and they got it. I assume you wanted to draw attention to the fact that the published data is not correct. You're right. They're not true. And most of them, that's why I'm standing at your disposal under this article, to get the exact data from the service within our jurisdiction, to compare it, so that it wouldn't be possible for someone to go astray, to ask that kind of question that you just asked. In order not to do so, I will give accurate information to both the public and the MPs, and in this way we will connect something which is a obligation and something which is a responsibility, hopefully, to the satisfaction of all, and our obligation now is to continue to do our job urgently, and that is legislative action.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24381	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24382	First, according to the Rules of Procedure. On the basis of Articles 27 and 31. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform the President of the National Assembly that he is chairing the National Assembly meetings, and that only in the event of temporary prevention can one of the vice presidents replace him, which the President of the National Assembly informs the other vice presidents and secretaries of the National Assembly. So this "flying" shift of yours, as in hockey, which Mr. Angelkovic took over the presidency of the National Assembly, and you are not prevented, but you are sitting there, and you did not inform Mr. Zankov that Mr. Angelkovic would chair, is an infringement of the Rules of Procedure. Now let me answer, since she's been sent to BK TV, to answer you, Mr. Omerovic, what did you need to do with the SRS? You think I haven't heard between the ranks what will spin BK TV, that after the SRS, some other parliamentary group costs the citizens of Serbia the most. We're not costing any citizens of Serbia. That costs your ideologist. It costs citizens of Serbia 600m euros, and on the souls of these, to the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Interior, the prosecution, the Ministry of Justice and others who need to worry that honest and honest people are on the street, at home, at work, and criminals and thieves being in prison. That's the difference between you and me. We are not costing citizens of Serbia anything, perhaps it would be best if someone abolished the National Assembly and introduced a dictatorship. At that time, no messenger would receive a penny. There's no money at the cash register. Would Serbian citizens be pleased? I will not discuss the price of democracy with you. I will discuss the price of democracy with those who deal with politics in order to make Serbian citizens better. About it – where whoever lives and where he lives, if we forbid people to move, you would live today, Mr. Omerovic, in Foca.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24383	What did you want, Mr. Omerovic? Get back to your seat! I saw you, Mr. Omerovic. At the moment I do not replace the President of the Assembly, I only did this on one occasion, when I scheduled a session of the Assembly under the authority of the President of the Assembly, that is, Section 2. (Article 31) in which it is said that, in the case of temporary prevention, the President of the National Assembly replaces one of the vice presidents whom he appoints and informs the vice presidents. Everyone was informed that I had the right to schedule a session of the Assembly when we arrested those prosecutors or I don't know who they were. Then I had the honor of replacing the President of the Assembly. Now, according to Article 31(1), I am helping the president in the presidency and these are different things. First, we go by the time we report to the Rules of Procedure, then the replicas. The word is Mr. Aligrudić according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. Mr. Aligrudic, I'm watching when someone answered the word, not you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24384	Article 104 speaks of an obligation to respect the dignity of this home. Unfortunately, it is the only member I can call upon, as I have so far called upon him in similar situations. So, we have an opportunity to see, at the beginning of this session, which has begun, we have been informed of the formation of a new parliamentary club, composed of MPs who want to name their Parliament club as, I guess, a Parliament Club for European Serbia or something. I don't mind having such a commitment, such a commitment has a majority in this House. But it would be too naive if we thought it had nothing to do with Bogoljub Karic. I also claim that it has to do with Bogoljub Karic, because two members of the MP club in an open coalition with Bogoljub Karic and represent practically the same political entity, through which Bogoljub Karic has already managed to infiltrate the National Assembly, although he has never participated in the elections. The number was then increased by a number of MPs so that, according to the rules of the Rules of Procedure, a parliamentary club could be formed. So I'm not saying if there's been a violation of the Rules of Procedure's formal provisions on how MPs' clubs are formed in the National Assembly, that's fine, anyway. So, from a formal point of view, it exists and it cannot be challenged. I'm talking about something else here, and I'm forced to talk once more, since we talked about dignity, we're talking about morality. People, is it normal for someone to be elected on an election list, that citizens vote for him and that whoever was elected on that list do something completely the opposite of the expectations of citizens in the elections that were held? I understand there can be regular and extraordinary elections. Governments never fall because of a lack of legitimacy, but because of lack of support in parliament. I understand that someone is changing their political opinion. I understand even that one parliamentary group has canceled the government's trust because it is their political stance, so that it will bring the government into crisis and find one of the two possible solutions after that, which are possible under the Constitution and the law. But I cannot understand that because someone has obviously received money or other material advantages or the promise to have other material advantages, it changes the political reality in the Serbian parliament and thus insults the dignity of the citizens of this country that we represent here. So it's just not possible, but you can see it's happening. We have to be in one thing always on the same side, if we're both a little moral and honest. to condemn these phenomena. Citizens watching this television broadcast, who will hear our statements after this, must know that this is about an immoral act, directed against democratic pluralism and parliamentaryism in Serbia and against their interests. That's what you need to know. Unfortunately, I can respect the rules of the Rules of Procedure and I can respect the formal aspect of this matter, that I respect the reality that there is a parliamentary group called this, whose real name is the hidden PSS, but I cannot, for the sake of the interests of those for whom I am in this Parliament, respect these people. No one can ever ask me to do that. I think what I said today, even though it won't fix this thing at the moment, must serve as a teaching to those who watched this transmission and to those who chose us, regardless of who we chose, whether the SRS, DSS, G17 plus or any other political party, SPO – New Serbia, that it's all the same. Only the elections in this country are the place where citizens can express their political will, to change the political reality of this parliament. (Chairman: Time, Mr. Aligrudic. I'll finish right away, thank you. All other ways are something that is morally inadmissible and that must go on everyone's soul.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24385	Mr. Aligrudic, unfortunately, in the Assembly it is not to appreciate what is normal and what is not. It is in the Assembly that he appreciates what is according to the Rules of Procedure and what is not according to the Rules of Procedure. As you know, a month ago I warned you that according to the Rules of Procedure, it would happen to us if you didn't do it more seriously, but that's your problem. The word is Mr. Veroljub Stevanović, according to the Rules of Procedure. They, as you know, do not hide that they represent here the God of Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24386	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I didn't realize Mr. Omerovic was defending the Serbian democratic movement to rebuild or attack. That's what I'm saying, not to say, because you're going to resent me, specifically, not to say what you're saying, defending you, to attack you. But the Serbian Democratic Renewal Movement, it may sound a little unnatural to you, doesn't get a dime because it's a special group, but otherwise it doesn't get anything. It's probably for your hearing inconceivable. It's a fact. Like, Mr. Omerovic, the fact, and to remind everyone, what you were doing while you were in G17 plus. So these were blackmails, these were phenomena that we all pointed to, however, not so publicly, but the public of Serbia knew it. I'd still ask you not to talk about morality. If we analyze every member of this group that you're in right now, the parliamentary groups, so we look at the cars a little bit, and we listen to what's in the circles between us, and the hairstyle, then it's really obvious what's moral and what's immoral. What's going on in the paper, Mr. Omerovic, is a little weird, so let's say, when we look at some of your members, then we can see exactly who lives in Belgrade, and he never left Belgrade, and he checked in somewhere, there, a little more than 100 or 200 kilometers away, and he travels every day with thoughts, say, to Mionica or wherever. Mr. Omerovicu, leave us alone, the public of Serbia knows how you and how you made this group. That -- European Serbia kind of sounds more like "Serbia by your measure," where the euro is important. It's for you, Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24387	Replica was reported by MP Meho Omerovic. Is that a replica of the Shormaz, about the car or about who? Replication to Mr Tomislav Nikolic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24388	Mr. Angelkovic, I know it's hard for you to explain what's been going on in the last 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24389	Nothing's hard for me at all. I'm just asking you to respect the Rules of Procedure and first tell me who you want the line for, and then let me give you my word. Otherwise, I won't give you my word until you tell me. Here you go, you said. I said the replica for the presentation of Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24390	I mean Mr. Nikolic, Mr. Aligrudic and Mr. Stevanovic. It's clear to all Serbian citizens, but it's not for you, Mr. Angelkovic, but that's your problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24391	It's clear to me, but you must follow the Rules of Procedure, as I adhere to the Rules of Procedure to accept you as a parliamentary group. So follow the Rules of Procedure to inform the President of the Assembly for which it is a replica. When I heard about your replica, I told the MPs, and I gave you my word. So go ahead and get on the line, not the explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24392	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. According to Parliament Speaker Predrag Markovic's custom, there is no, he says so, and then he just escapes, as he was about to vote on the resolution of the Serbian Parliament on Kosovo and Metohija, but that is, unfortunately, not only his problem but also the problem of this parliament, because we chose him. A few things my predecessors have said deserve special attention. Mr. Nikolic, for you, a notice. You seem to have been infected by this uninformed part of the ruling coalition, so you are not informed that BK television is not directly broadcasting the television sessions of the assembly, but rather by the Third Channel of State Television, or RTS. Secondly, Mr Nikolic, I did not expect you, to be honest, to apply the same methods that made you want to leave the Assembly the other day, when one DSS MP accused and offended my distinguished colleague Verica Radeti, who was born in Livno, who was either deliberately on the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, former SFRY. That's one thing and for the sake of truth, you spoke to me by identifying me with the hometown of Foca. I wasn't born in Foca, Mr. Nikolic, I was born in Gorazd. The data that was presented, of course, is correct. I'm sorry I had to quote what Mr. Secretary told the public in his memo. So the funds that receive the parliamentary groups on the basis of the costs are what they are. I have no objection to what SRS MPs are using all their rights and that's their right. I just listed the exact data that MP groups spend and how much they spend. As for what Mr. Aligrudic, Mr. Aligrudic, spoke of, I would remind you, it's true what you said, an open coalition, just like that. The SDP is a long time ago, a month and a half ago, you've noticed it well, and I'm glad you've been following our work, agreeing to co-operate with the PSS party. I would remind you, on this occasion, that it was a party that participated in the local and the AP Vojvodina Assembly elections, that it was a party participating in the local government, including the government at the level of the AP Vojvodina. So that's something that's perfectly normal. You say someone can be selected on one list, and later leave that list, move to another party, become independent or outside the parliamentary group, however you like and say it's not normal. It is normal until the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, which said the mandates belong to the MPs, says otherwise. I ask you, Mr. Aligrudic, is it normal for you to directly tear up a large party called the Serbian Renewal Movement, to directly deprive the Democratic Party of two mandates, to directly take over Dragis Djokovic's mandate?- I'm sorry. Is that normal? That, of course, is not normal, Mr Aligrudic, and that is why the abnormal situation in which this parliament, the situation and the situation that Serbian citizens can no longer stand, I think it is high time to discuss the extraordinary parliamentary elections. Mr. Aligrudic, you're saying someone took the money. What kind of money are you talking about?- I'm sorry. There is no money that one can give to the ruling coalition when they are taking money for travel expenses and daily living. What is the disguised name of your party I will not speak, but I will remind you that senior DSS officials, members of Vojislav Kostunica's cabinet, have annulled, born, created and taught business with Bogoljub Karic. I mean Mr. Nikitovic, Mr. Đuric and Mr. Alexander Tijanic. So much for who he is.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24393	I've seen you all, Mr. Shormaz. You, Mr. Albian, wait, don't walk 'cause I'll get you back. Let me get this straight, Mr. Omerovic. That's not exactly what Mr. Aligrudic said. He said – everything that is in accordance with the law and the Rules of Procedure can be normal, it's just not moral, but that's another question. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24394	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advertising the violation of Rules of Procedure of Rule 104. Not only is the dignity of the National Assembly offended here, but the reputation and honor of the MPs of the peoples. What's this about? The time has come for Meko Omerovic to come to the assembly pay phone and advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure. If anyone can testify to the indignity of such an MP, it's me. So, what's this about? You know very well, Mr. Omerovic, on which election list you were on when you entered the Serbian Parliament. Lucky for us, we learned that you lied to us about participation in the Bodrum vote, so some members of the SDP participated at the time, so fortunately we learned in time and could not enter Serbia's parliament. What's next after that? You turn your back very quickly, and whoever you come to try to get sick of it, so I would say a message to this oligarch, tycoon or whatever they call him in Serbia, to keep you safe, since he will certainly have the same problems. It is not disputed, you can do whatever you want, you can sell your soul to whoever you want, whatever you want, but it is that all MPs in the Serbian Parliament know when it comes to voting or some important moment in Parliament. I was the man who asked you to come down, but you have no cheek and honor to say – Mr. Albianic, I will not go down to vote. You'll never say what you want. You keep saying something, you look, you fly, you mess around, and so forth, it's your character and your work. You can't be any different today than you were yesterday. Only by your gesture, act, by agreement with Bogoljub Karic, did you show your true true face. That's what Serbia needs to know. Serbia needs to know that the honourable MPs here want to be clearly fenced from such things, that such an act of condemnation and that they say that to such a thing, MPs who are honorable and honest do not agree. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24395	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24396	I don't want to discuss with my colleague Omerovic, although I did have a replica of his exposure, and he subsequently replicated me again and injured the Rules of Procedure. Because I have too many serious jobs to deal with what Meho Omerovic and his MP group are going to do in this assembly, and the SRS is not coming to track what the ants are doing. I just want to remove another attack on the SRS and call you if you attack us to do it openly without twisting into any complex sentences. You could never hear from me to resent you for moving from Gorazd. I resented you for forbidding people to move, so I said the Constitution does not guarantee freedom of residence and you would have to stay where you were born. What has been resented by some group of fellow Members of Vericu, it would never have been a radical for any Serbian citizen. I didn't blame you, I just reminded you not to criticise the actions of others if you made them yourself to bring you and your family good. You asked Belgrade for conditions for existence, to be in power, to be the board of directors of parking services, this, that. Who can forbid you? Do not forbid it to others. If one MP was elected because he was in Belgrade and moved to Uzice, do not forbid him from moving to Užice, because he wants to live there. That's all. I'd like to ask my other colleagues from the right parliamentary groups not to pay too much attention, and I think you're the one who's hooked on a tiny bait. Is it the People's Assembly to discuss Bogoljub Karic all day long? It is not to be debated in the National Assembly. He needs to be discussed in the D.A.'s office. If you want to talk about Bogoljub Karic and you from the ruling coalition, bring the material I saw that proves he stole 600m euros. What are you hiding him for? Don't hide that material, I'm beginning to suspect you can't bring it out in public. If that's what you want, let's discuss it like that. So, did he steal the Messengers? Yes, he did. Has He bribed the Messengers? He is, so here he is. Maybe it's beautiful Mrs. Nestorovic, maybe it catches on to beauty. You were in the other party while he was wearing a mustache, and when he shaved, you crossed over to him. Maybe that's the reason, but let's drop it and do some serious work.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24397	Mr. Aligrudic, you in the Rules of Procedure? I record very carefully when someone answered. Mr. Todorovic, before you is Mr. Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24398	So, according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104 is offensive to say for members of a political party that they tried to steal a mandate. How can the DSS steal its own mandate? That's totally amazing. So, we have 53 mandates as a result of the elections for the National Assembly and then suddenly thanks to the occult actions, agreements and violations of the gentlemen's agreement, which we had at the beginning of this call, that it will not be moved from the parliamentary group to the parliamentary group, the DS decided to hold the mandate of the DSS parliamentary group, by simply making an agreement with Dragisa Djokovic, who called the parliamentary group and that party a pesorative name yellow, which I never use in public political acts. He spoke all the worst of the political party in our parliamentary group up to three or four weeks before that. He didn't suggest anything that he had changed his political opinion. So this is about something else entirely. Therefore, our obligation is to the voters. So the Messenger of the people is not what is at the centre of this state's attention. On the basis of such ideas, based on all of this and on such conversations, they are also making newspaper articles that are being made. On this basis there were newspaper articles when it came to the adoption of the Law on the National Assembly, a year ago, to degrade this house and create a picture that the MPs only cared about themselves and their care. That fits that profile. Who knows you? Who knows about you at the moment of your election? Nobody. The difference between the position of these MPs and those you mentioned a little while ago, when it came to the group on the DS list, it is the Sandzak coalition, it is huge. After the local elections that were held afterwards, the daily Boris Tadic-DS has not received any committee members in Novi Pazar. They received as many votes as Boris Tadic-DS received in the 2003 republican elections, because these people are essential, knew who they voted for by voting for the list. For any of you ladies and gentlemen, people didn't know. They knew about the list holders and the policy of the political party to be declared. That's what's true and you can now talk about everything and everything, about the law, about the Rules of Procedure, about what's in accordance with what, what's wrong with what, what's the right of who. I'm not contesting it formally to anyone. It's not the subject of debate at all. I'm talking about you cheating on Serbian citizens and whoever did it did it, even if it fell on the burden of someone in the ruling coalition. The most beautiful thing I ask you is that there are irrefutable facts. You can't replace the thesis and say that I don't have the right as head of the DSS parliamentary group and anyone from the DSS to defend the interest of those we're here for today. When Serbian citizens decide to make a different election, when they decide we're five or ten or we're a hundred, that's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24399	Mr. Shormaz, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24400	Of course, the chairman, member of 104, and violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. Mr Meho Omerovic, I can't even remember the name, because the first thing I wanted to say was to apologize primarily to Mr Tomislav Nikolic, he's used to it from me in the last few days. He's not the only Aligrudic who apologized. And I say, "I'm sorry, he was absolutely right, I don't need to pay attention to him, so he doesn't mention His Majesty like a dozen days ago that I mentioned to everyone he said, except he wouldn't agree with the ants, because ants are worth the animals that create something." This looks more like those parasites we're looking at these days in commercials, with the habitat where they belong. Sir, first the fluid needs to be released, then the water is released, then everything else. Look who's looking, the latest survey says that the party has 0.2% of the electoral bodies, the extraordinary parliamentary elections, just because you entered the Assembly at the expense of someone else, so you can say it here. Secondly, I'm telling you now, every penny you've taken, won, no matter what the law says, at the Parking Service, by the law on the availability of information, as chairman of the board of directors, I'm going to bring everything for this assembly pay phone, read and share it to the press. All in a few years. You've been on the DSS for the last year, because of course you couldn't cross the censorship. We, as a party, pay a price for it because with such ones, with a habitat where they belong, cooperated, but in the future we certainly won't, because you chose your company and when the water was released and you will leave together.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24401	He thought of Mr. Shormaz late. The word has Jovan Todorovic according to the Rules of Procedure, then Ljiljana Nestorović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24402	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure in that section relating to the violation of the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which will tell all of us folk representatives how many of us in this assembly there are, therefore, all 250 of us. We're witnessing an orchestrated campaign led against the highest home in this country these days. All in this are used by wicked means and lies, without avoiding such expressions as thieves, bastards, herdless cattle. Unfortunately, that's what our state television has joined, and for state television, we're putting aside the 2006 budget for a billion and 500 million dinars. We in this assembly here vote for a taxi law that will allow regular revenues to state television. How can I, as a man who I consider honorable and congratulating to call those who call us, cattle without tails, except to call them by the names they truly deserve, they are cattle but tails. Yes, Jovan Todorovic will object to the media. But I can no longer listen to auctions about what it is and how many of the MPs stole the state's money, because it's a pure lie and I can't take it anymore. That's why my dignity is hurt, and I hope you share that confidence. When I sit in Loznica in my car at 7:00 a.m. and come to the Assembly at 10.00 and return to my family at 10.00 p.m. – do I have the right to compensation for the costs of that transport? But I couldn't sit on a can of gas and come to Belgrade, but I had to buy a car, I had to be a driver, so I don't know if I was a driver or a national MP, I had to secure it, buy new tires, change his oil, pay his registration and put my head in a bag and come to this session. I am now asking those I call a turnip of cattle – is it better for Serbia, for 250 MPs to provide 250 cars and 250 drivers in all directions to bring us to this assembly. If no one from this government or from the government will protect the MPs, I am encouraged to protect you all, and I promise you, if this continues, you will come to Loznica, Nis, to Vranje to vote for the laws. I'm not a thief and I don't want anyone calling me that. I have never been in my life, and I know that most of my fellow Members, the MPs, are not thieves, because if it were, it would have been discovered long ago, they would have been threatened with fines or prison sentences of over five years, so, as well as others we've done, we would have removed immunity and judged such people. I ask the President of the Assembly to protect us, I ask the Prime Minister to protect us, please from power, especially from the DSS, forget about false demagogy, forget about false legalism, bring laws that regulate the status of a MP. Bring the Law on the National Assembly, because we had it, and we pulled it because you didn't want to adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24403	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. And you for the replica, Meso? I've seen you, but first he has to do business.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24404	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have no intention at all of answering a bunch of senseless and vulgar words that have been heard, I can only congratulate you, Mr. Nikolic. Mr. Shormaz's love for you obviously depends on no mustache, nothing else. And we are constantly present here with the outpouring of his gentleness towards you, which, of course, impotes you, but doesn't amuse us very much. What I have to say here is quite clear, because it was also in the media, and very transparent. Mr. Albianic, let me answer some of the accusations I heard from his mouth. Mr Albianic, otherwise I didn't even know that in party G17 plus when the current president, and the party's leadership, and former head of the G17 Plus MP club, Mr Paunovic Goran, sat at meetings with the SDP, on their request, with our leadership, to ask us for support, to allow us to stand in the way of such things as happened in the previous assembly of parliament. Should I, Mr. Albianic, remind you that at that time you have become a parliamentary party? You didn't become the one who went to the election, you became the one who convinced the ruling coalition MPs to join the coalition and to be members of your party! And that's what's true. You are currently challenging the same principle that you have inaugurated in this congregation. You then asked us, Mr. Albianic, to stand up against the fact that there was a vote in this assembly from Thessaloniki and Bodrum, and we said then, of course, that we were opposed to such manners. Mr Albianic, you asked us at that time, not personally, but your bosses, much more prominent party members then, to support the debate on the trust of Natasa Micic and to support the debate on the confidence of the Government of Zoran Zivkovic. We supported it then, because it is the basic right of the opposition that requires it, because there was reason to do so because of numerous affairs. Then we entered into a common coalition, and then you and your principle continue to take effect. So then you take two mandates to the SDP that we agreed on, people based on false accusations, which have been proven to be not involved in anything. Then, Mr. Albianic, you're starting to participate in even worse affairs than were characterized by Zivkovic's government. We're looking for answers, Mr. Albianic, we never get them. We never got an answer as to why the state was damaged over 20m euros in the "Knjiz Milos" affair. We'll never obviously get answers from you how it's possible for one National Savings Bank to become a private bank and that a few people, by selling those National Savings, can make a huge fortune. We will never get answers from you and we can only get them by calling new extraordinary parliamentary elections to get a new assembly.... (President: Time.) ....................................................................................................... who will have the courage to determine what you did, and that is the individual right of every Messenger. No one should buy an MP who thinks he's looking for something like that... (President: Time.) ) Your principle - hold on to the thief while you create machinations that you will not explain to the citizens of Serbia and to which you will not give answers. We've already seen that story. You made it possible for people here to raise money without any cover... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... The honourable MPs have been brought into an unpleasant situation. This assembly looks like Ali Baba's cave, where you can come in and take money from the budget, from the people's money, only if you know... (President: may I ask the MP...) What's the code, Mr. Albianic? Tell us that code.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24405	Take it easy. Really, when I listen to this, I think we should as Parliament form one survey committee to discuss what happened in DOS that three years, how you stole MPs from the SPS, five mandates. You actually need to be there, so we can see what's really going on, because what you're saying we don't understand. (Ljiljana Nestorovic, from the scene: Answer the word, you have no right. What I'm entitled to or not, that's what I'm going to decide, not you. Mr Meho Omerovic, you have the right to a replica. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24406	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. He is right, unfortunately, a respected colleague, Jovan Todorovic, from Loznica. All he said was true, therefore, because of a few, only because of a few, distinguished ladies and gentlemen MPs, I look at you all, and from the ruling coalition and from the opposition, only because of a few MPs, most of the honourable and honest MPs are doing their duty neatly and in accordance with the law and all decisions. Only because of a few MPs, we are called what we are called. Why we allow, I ask you, why we allow this few who apparently not only violates the moral provisions that most of my predecessors are called upon, but directly and legally. If you say for someone, you were not elected by the citizens on a single list, and you are also out of that list, as well as my fellow Members, we can ask the question – you were not elected by the citizens as a Belgrader, and after five months you apply to Vranja, Leskovac, Vladic's Han, or the better, because there is more money at travel costs. It's the same order of size. A colleague, Jovo Todorovic, is right, most MPs are doing exactly what he said. Let us not allow, let us not allow this parliament, which is otherwise destroyed, for this collapse of Parliament I am also the party to which I belong several times directly accused the President of Predrag Markovic's Assembly. He is the most responsible for this situation in parliament. I think it should be passed as soon as possible, and last time I agree with Mr. Todorovic, the Law on the National Assembly. Replication of what Mr Albianic and Mr Aligrudic were saying. My dear colleagues, it is obvious that an unprecedented panic has entered your ranks. I completely understand, Mr. Albianic. When MPs of the SDP and the SDP left the ruling coalition and cancelled obedience because of the scandalous NIS law, you, as professor of mathematics, explained to citizens that 129 is more than 131. Mr. Albianic, explain to them now that you're subtracting another two or five, how that might be more. I don't think there's this math, even you as a professor can't explain to us that it's less than something that's more. As for one of the predecessors, whom it is truly nice and beautiful to watch when he stands for this pay phone, the only thing I can say and recommend the violation of the Rules of Procedure directly to the chairman is you, Mr. Angelkovic. When one of the ministers, I won't mention his name, from this pay phone, my distinguished fellow SRS MPs called the bastards, we witnessed that the head of the DSS Aligrudic parliamentary group apologized on behalf of the entire ruling coalition. Will any of the members of the ruling coalition apologize for the words parasites and ants, I ask you, Mr. Chairman? If that's not an insult, then I really don't know what kind of building we're in, does this look like the Assembly and does this look like a place where citizens have put their trust? I'm afraid the citizens have lost every trust... (President: Time, Mr. Omerovic. )......................................................................................................... to this Parliament and to this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24407	Now, Mr. Omerovic, I saw you, if you were in the Assembly when that debate was conducted between the SRS and Minister Dinkic, then you wouldn't ask me such a question. If you were, you know that's when I warned both of them and I told them to try to use more appropriate words. I've instructed them to buy a dictionary of SANA, read and see if there are any words or not, and if I have no intention of warning anyone, everyone takes care of what he says, takes care of their voters and before them. So that's what it's all about. Second, around these travel expenses, it doesn't matter where anyone's elected, it matters where he's registered. I'm a barbaric, but I'm registered in Belgrade, so I've never charged any travel expenses. So here's the question where who decided to live and where he was reported, that should be in mind. Mr. Albianic, have you reached out to the Rules of Procedure? If it's a replica, let's first see if by the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Verko, here you go, just to respect the order. Here you go, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24408	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, don't deceive the public. You have not left the Government of the Republic of Serbia but have been expelled from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's the first one. Second, you're calling here for honor, morale. That's really embarrassing. I will repeat and ask you, while you were here in the ruling coalition, how many laws have you voted for? How many sessions were you in? When do you even vote here and participate? The basic question arises, why are you now attacking the MPs, the journals, and especially those who regularly attend the assembly meetings.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24409	And you've been putting up with them for a year.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24410	What's this about? Now it becomes clear that this public campaign was actually created from the pot of Bogoljub Karic, with a new attack on the Assembly, because today you see what you wanted. I'm afraid your memory's weak. You're having a bad memory for the next reason. The governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia and the National Bank of Serbia was Mladjan Dinkic while we were the NGO G17 Plus. Miroljub Labus was the vice president of the federal government. As an NGO, we have created a DOS programme for Serbia's reforms. That's why we became a political party. People who are members of the NGO and do not deal with the shift of their governor, here you attack them for why they did it. That's rude of you. It's clear your way. Good luck to you, Bogoljub Karic, that's my message to you!
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24411	I thank you, Mr. Albianic. The word is Mr. Predrag Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, president of the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24412	That's right, I wasn't in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24413	TV is a miracle, you see everything and you hear everything when you're not in the O.R. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24414	Of course it's not right to use naivety. Eventually people who watch television and can think that the job of the president of the assembly is just a presidency. While I'm doing the other jobs, I've looked at and seen amazing data. So Mr. Omerovic says the president of the assembly has fled somewhere. The President of the Assembly is here every day, 365 days a year, as you know, and he's doing his job, and that's why, Mr. Omerovic, you can get the exact information from the secretary, far less money from you. Why? Because I live in Rakovica. I don't consider that my advantage. I live in my basement apartment, I wasn't on board, I couldn't, I'm sorry. Please, I've never run anywhere, and I'm not going to run away, and I'm not going to escape especially when it comes to European Serbia. I was shocked to hear that a member of the group that registered today, which was read by the chairman, as a group called "For European Serbia", Mr. Omerovic, said in front of the group that this parliament is collapsing. Excuse me, which Europe are you talking about? It's not Siberian Europe. The European Parliament has sent congratulations to this parliament on the work it has done, and to MPs and positions and opposition, MPs in this parliament, because, fortunately, it is not collapsing, it has made the laws better, that the committees are working. You see, someone calls it official travel today. People come to the boards on Fridays and Saturdays, both from the post and from the opposition. Only because of that was it possible to create a prerequisite, and we'll see if that's enough. Congratulations, President of the European Parliament, to the president of this assembly, because it represents you, they are public. If you call it a collapse, reports from the European Commission that huge progress has been made in the legislation through the Serbian Parliament, if you call it a collapse of the monitoring report on what the MPs of the National Assembly have done for their country's progress and European standards, if you call it collapse, it is simply being resolved – change the name of this parliamentary group, because it seems offensive to parliament. That's why I'm calling for Article 104. You cannot be called a "For European Serbia" parliamentary group and oppose any European assessment of the work of this parliament. I ask you, during an hour's break, which the chairman will probably, right now, give, think and change the name. I can suggest a few, as I've been making you good suggestions so far. That's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24415	I thank Mr. President. I'm sorry he warned me, otherwise I'd take a break. I'm counting on some of them to get overheated and they need to cool off, others to get hungry, and they need to eat, and the third ones got a little carried away, so it would be their turn to wait 15 hours and keep going. I'll see you at 3:00.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24416	We continue to work towards the agenda after a one-hour break. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLIES OF THE CRIME PROCEDURE You have received a proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of the debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups, a proportional number of MPs from members of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in the principle of parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour, 36 minutes; the Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour, three seconds, 36 seconds; the Democratic Party – Boris Tadic – 43 minutes, 12 seconds; G17 plus 37 minutes, 12 seconds; the Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes, 24 seconds; New Serbia's independent MPs 9+9 – 20 minutes, 24 seconds; the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia – 6 minutes; MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, four SPP MPs and three independents – five minutes each, based on Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a principled search. Does the representative of Proposer Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice, want a word? Here you go, Mr. Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24417	Dear ladies and gentlemen, there is a small but significant amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure. It is related to the issue of the length of the detention period set by law. In Article 1(1), where detention, which has been designated up to two years for serious criminal offences related to organised crime, and no 40-year sentence has been threatened, it is proposed to amend those crimes to be a legal limit for four years. I'll give an explanation, the draft law on criminal proceedings is under way, where it will definitely be regulated. However, there has been a problem here that shows that our courts are not solid enough and valid enough for them to complete complex cases in organised crime, for these reasons it is proposed that for these acts, where the sentence of ten years is planned, and organised crime is equal to four years. A much more significant change, and I suggest that we adopt it with a technical correction, so that this change is much clearer so that, in point 2, instead of the number "three," stands the number "seven," and instead of the number "four" the number "eight" i.e. to add a new position which would read: for those accused of being released after the expiry of the legal detention in the event of the concealment, flight or non-declaration of the court's call, which would mean obstruction of the trial, detention may be determined as a criminal measure until a first-degree verdict is reached. Normally, with such a technical correction that makes this change completely clear, there would be no need for attitudes 5 and 6, then it is quite clear to add the eighth attitude in this article and this newspaper. I'll explain here what he means. The new law will definitely regulate it in one valid way. I expect that March will be in the Assembly, after it is finished, will go to a public debate. So he's going to enter the Assembly at the first session. The second amendment has the following meaning: with these provisions on the length of detention, which have been introduced at the request of Europe, because it has proved that our courts are not solid enough to be able to complete the cases within a reasonable period of time, so as not to convert the detention, no more than the security of the presence, but the maltenes to the extent of the punishment, these restrictions have been imposed. That's where it turns out, here it is, right now, one Falinka. A few months ago, several persons from organized crime, so called. The Zemun groups went free because their custody expired. There's a problem with the court now. The court, which did not work solidly, allowed the detention to expire without completing the case. There are still the largest number of suspects in custody. In the event that those who went free do not appear neatly or flee or hide, the court would no longer have the opportunity to determine the detention and ensure their presence. That would mean that these other men in custody can't be tried, but they'd be sitting in custody because the court doesn't have the technical ability to carry out the trial right now. On the other hand, there would be a danger that by dragging these people out and all the other faces, at the end of this four-year period for organised crime, they would be released. That's what we can't allow. Therefore, this amendment, as very important and if accepted by this technical regulation, is the position of the 8th said member. I repeat once again that there is a principled change in organized crime and the most serious crimes of organized crime. So, not for classical crime, not for other acts that may have and more severe threatened punishment, but it's not about organised crime cases. The change is principled, and this supplement needs to actually improve the existing state. I repeat, if he were to get out after his legal detention, there would no longer be an opportunity for them to determine detention, and if he were to flee and hide, he couldn't end the case. On the other hand, the rest of the people in custody would be lying there, waiting to sort out the problem with the ones that are on the loose. That is why this second amendment is much more important and I think it will find its place in the new bill of law that will soon be in front of this assembly as a complete new criminal code in the assembly procedure. If there are any questions, I'm willing to answer and explain. For now, I think this is enough to figure out why these changes are taking place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24418	Thank you, Mr Stojkovic. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or authorized representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Ivica Dacic, president of the SPS parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24419	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, Mr. President, today we've wasted a lot of time on some irrelevant and side characters and topics. Allow me to say a few words on behalf of the SPS regarding the law which is on the agenda – the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure. The SPS voted against putting this law on the agenda and against the agenda in general. First, the SPS was not familiar with the amendment and addition of this law. We find it absolutely unacceptable that whenever a criminal is to get out of jail, because he's nearing the end of his detention, because our courts and prosecutors aren't doing what's right, that we here have to change the Criminal Code, and sometimes I wonder why we're even restricting detention. Why didn't you write right away that someone could be in custody until he was punished? What about those who, when two years and four years are up, are not convicted and accused of anything? I'm not talking about defending criminals. All of what you're saying today, Mr. Minister, is motivated by not principled reasons, but by what the papers say, which is that six members of the Zemun clan will be released from custody because the Special Court couldn't convict them for these two years. You, instead of changing the Special Court, are changing the law. You remember that the SPS was also against previous changes. He's been in custody for two years. The amendments to the law, which you have proposed, at the request of some parties, the SPO, above all, to prevent Rade Markovic from being released from prison, has been required that the detention be immediately four years. We have accepted the compromise variant that this applies to the most serious crimes. You now suggest that this applies to those crimes of organized crime for which a sentence of ten years or more severe punishment is threatened. Then, in the second position, you suggest that when someone gets out of custody and gets him back into custody, that detention can take an unlimited amount of time. It doesn't exist anywhere! Please withdraw this legal proposal. We'll vote against it. You arrest criminals, prosecute them, but we don't want every criminal in prison, and you can't get him evidence, or the court won't do it right, or the prosecutors can't catch the whole case, to change the law. So the special prosecutor instead of splitting up the procedure here, asks you to change the law, so that those six members of the Zemun clan don't get out of jail. What kind of way is that? You know, Mr. Minister, who can be struck by your changes to the law. You're talking about organized crime. You want me to read to you what is by the definition of DOS authorities, after they have passed the Law on Organized Crime, organized crime: "Organised crime is the conduct of crimes by an organised criminal group, or other organised groups or its members, for which the sentence of four years or more severe punishment is foreseen." You don't have the number and number that are acts of organized crime. "A organised criminal group," under the law, "is a group of three or more persons who exist for a certain time and act on an agreement to commit one or more crimes, for which the sentence of four years or more is intended, for the purpose of obtaining, directly or indirectly, financial or other material benefits." Under the second organised group, meaning, not a criminal, not an organised criminal group, "A group that is not educated in the aim of direct crime, nor does it have such a developed organisational structure, defined roles and continuity of membership of its members, but is in the function of organised crime". Mr. Minister, in your bill of law, which you've given us, it says that for four years, one who is a suspect, charged with acts of organized crime, for which a sentence of 10 years of imprisonment or more severe punishment has been threatened. To remind you of the Criminal Law that we passed before a certain period – for issuing checks and using payment cards without cover, where someone or another obtains the benefit of 100,000 dinars, a penalty of up to 10 years has been threatened. If the issuing of checks accidentally organizes three people, five can be called an organized criminal group. Will you hold them in custody for four years? You can hold them as long as you want, you give what you do to any authority to be a dictatorial power! You here give the right to repeat the "Sabbe" action. You won't be a hundred years minister. Someone will come to your post and judge you as an organized criminal group. Don't think too much, we know what it looks like and what it was like in the "Sabbe" action, where in Serbia, 12,000 people were arrested on suspicion that they had committed some of the so-called acts. organized crime!- I'm sorry. Then, under this provision of yours, you can put a criminal act of causing false bankruptcy. Under this provision of yours, you can also put a business secret, unwittingly providing medical assistance. Here, the gentleman is a doctor, will tomorrow the patients charge you with giving him unconscious medical attention, and they'll say you did it with your nurse and another doctor, and you'll spend four years in custody. The difference between prison and detention will explain those who were in custody and have never been in prison. So, under what you're proposing, Mr. Minister, you can put a crime of narcissism and narcissism. All of this could be the subject of organized crime. Mr. Minister, the threat of territorial integrity, the continent of our country, the attack on constitutional order, armed rebellion is the cause of national, racial and religious hatred and impatience, the preparation of action against constitutional order and security. These are all works that are a gift from God for dictatorial authority, a gift from God to the prosecutor, because all of us where there are more than three of us in this room or in this country can be accused of acting against the constitutional order of this state. What do you need to do, keep us in custody for four years, and let us out of custody after three years and 11 months?- I'm sorry. What you're preparing is absolutely the opposite of what you stand for. You're afraid of the public to say that the Special Court and the Special Prosecutor's Office are not doing their job. We're not gonna do that now that some criminal's being held in custody again to pass criminal law. This is absolutely unacceptable what you're doing! Because you're giving people the opportunity to arbitrarily decide who they're going to hold in custody and who they're not. You are returning us at the time of Natasha Micic and the time of emergency, that we should consider whether a prosecutor will find some kind of organized crime in the operation of three, four or five politically-organised people or ordinary citizens. Abuse of the official position is also an act, a crime that can be characterized by your amendment to the law. Mr. Minister, there are thousands of Socialists in Serbia and others who were once in that government, who were accused, suspected. This was the favorite work of DOS prosecutors – abuse of official office and accidental spending of funds. Now you define it, abuse of official position, fraud in service, it's an act for which someone can also be in custody for four years only that there are two others who have been with him and who are allegedly criminally organized.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24420	Will you use another 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24421	I'll use it. It's particularly interesting, Mr. Minister, that at the same time as you propose the amnesty of those who have fled the army or have not responded to a military call, you are introducing a dangerous possibility here. To avoid military obligations and arbitrary absences and escape from the military, and if someone does so in a group of more than three, that it could be four years in custody. Arrange in the Serbian government – are you to flee the army or are you to serve the army? Those under your Criminal Law, which you have adopted, which help weaken combat morale, prevent the fight against enemies, help the enemy, can also be four years in custody. Mr. Minister, for these acts: attack on constitutional arrangements, avoidance of military obligations, aiding the enemy and weakness of combat morality, don't be angry, but many of those who were once in the DOS should not have left custody under this bill of yours. So stay away from this law. Change those who don't do their job in the D.A.'s office and in the judiciary. How many years does it take a special court to reach a verdict? The prosecution makes spectacular processes, connects dozens of cases. What do these six criminals, who have been kidnapping, have to do with the murder of Zoran Djindjic? And now, if they let themselves go, I know what's wrong with you, Minister. Not since yesterday, I've been in politics for 15 years. Don't talk to me about the principles here, but tell me honestly, to all of us, you're afraid that if those criminals get out of jail, the whole democratic public is supposed to say that you let the murderers of Zoran Djindjic come out. According to their ideas, DOS and the Democratic Party, during the state of emergency, we were all potential assassins at Zoran Djindjic, 12,000 who were detained. What were they supposed to not be out of custody until today? I think this proposal is very bad for the image of this government. You're supposed to be shortening custody. The Constitution says that detention must be limited time. People have fought for centuries, hundreds of years to shorten the will of those who have in their hands the ability to judge, suspect, accuse, etc. You speak here all the time, year after year you propose laws where you extend our detention. Still, God forbid, you come to Batić's proposal to return a little death sentence, so we can put it out again after a certain period. When someone is in custody for four years, watch out, Mr. Minister, for four years to be in custody and to talk about you every day that you're part of organized crime, that you're part of an organized group, that you're a criminal, that you're like this, or that you're like that, come out after those four years and try to move on with your life normally as if nothing happened! Don't play with human lives and human fates. Are we now about six criminals, which a special court cannot condemn, to change the law? Did you, Mr. Minister, take a good look at the list of all the criminals who are being held in custody? Let's at least now that we're changing everything to change. I think you've given a high sentence, a high limit to actions that are harder to be than ten years old. Try to slow down a little bit. This second attitude may be best for you – when you bring him to prison, to the detention unit, that the detention is immediately unlimited and lasting until the verdict is reached. Maybe it's best if we don't have to change the law every year according to the requirements of certain political parties from your coalition, who spoke about the independence of the judiciary, and here every day they want to be prosecutors, to be judges, to be ombudsmans and everything else. And that is why we will vote against this bill, because we believe that such a proposal is absolutely against all efforts by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to bring order into this area. This is absolutely contrary to Serbia's government's efforts to approach European standards. In Europe, as you know, there is a tendency to reduce detention, there is a possibility of getting out of custody on a certain bail. At our place, we're just extending our detention. I'm not saying this, and please, if you're answering me, Mr. Minister, don't even think about whether because of what I'm saying someone is going to judge whether we're defending a criminal or not, or if we don't vote for a change of law, some criminal will get out of jail. I speak in principle. Don't ever do anything you can do tomorrow. Don't do anything tomorrow that'll make dozens of people afraid they'll go to jail for what you've changed now. Abuse of official position, do you know how wide this work is that you can accuse anyone of it? Find two more, here's an organized criminal group, here's an organized group that's not criminal, which also falls under the influence of your amendments to the law. By changing your law, one who betrays a check without a cover of 100,000 dinars or gives a card without a cover of 100,000 dinars, and if he has the possibility to miscalculate it, that he did it organized, that he had some intentions, that he did great harm, could be subjected to these most serious crimes of yours. I don't want you, Mr. Minister, to believe that's how you're going to do it. I want the law to say it has to be done that way. The laws are not passed in order to allow anyone to make an arbitration decision, but laws are passed to limit the will of individuals, prosecutors, judges and all others. Anyway, we're absolutely against it and that's why we voted against this agenda. We consider this to be an unnecessary restriction in what is called the length of detention. An unlimited detention, which can last until the end of the process, is imposed until the verdict is reached. And you know that our courts are so up-to-date in telling the verdict that it can last and last, that in the end those who sent that man into custody don't remember what detention unit he's in anymore. Mr. Minister, it's not right and it's not good for you to be remembered for increasing your detention. I know that's not your opinion. I know that you feel that this may not be in line with some of your specifics, but don't do it for daily-political reasons to pass the laws that all of us can face. It may not be for you, but for those so-called. The Democrats have been on the stand for all these years, when you mention the first letter of this change of your laws, hair rises on your head. We know what it's like to be tried by DOS courts, when someone sends us into custody, so it takes a few months or a few years, so when you go into custody, when you need to get out, and in that time no one's interrogating you or anything else, you pass the law to extend that detention for another two years. Knowing who's in those courts, look at everything we need to change, how much detention should be for some acts that you may never prove that someone did. It's best to say that this man with no convictions for the rest of his life will be in custody.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24422	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a written word application, with a number of MPs, submitted by the G17 Plus and the SRS parliamentary groups. The word has a folk MP Marko Krstin, then Zoran Krasic, then Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24423	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, we have before us a bill that practically extends detention. We've had something like this before, and then I've been discussing it the same way I'm going to discuss it. I don't think we can access custody freely, no matter what legislative authority we have in our hands. The legislative authority is limited by the Serbian Constitution. The constitution means stopping the will. The Constitution has its own lines. It also states that the Constitution contains provisions restricting detention. Reading the bill, in particular its constitutional basis, he calls for Article 15(2), which says that no one can be deprived of freedom except in cases and in the procedure laid down in the law. The draft law also refers to Article 72 paragraph 1. A constitution containing a procedural basis, as the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides for the achievement and protection of human and citizen freedoms and rights. However, the Constitution after Article 15 also has a Article 16. Since this is the highest normative act of this country, I will quote it: "The person suspected of committing a crime may, on the basis of the decision of the competent court, be detained and detained in custody, only if necessary for the purpose of conducting criminal proceedings or the safety of people". Already in the first position, we find a limit when detention can be determined. Only if it is necessary for the conduct of criminal proceedings or for the safety of people. This absolutely excludes any other possibility, any other need, meaning detention is not punishment, it is a security measure so that the procedure can be conducted or to ensure the safety of people. Item 2 says, "The duration of detention must be reduced to the shortest necessary time." We measure time, of course, by seconds, by minutes, by hours, by days, by months, by some deadlines. I don't see a deadline in the bill. We have not been given two or four years, but, as the Law says, it can take a first degree sentence. If we take the Criminal Procedural Code, there is no time limit for a verdict, so there is no time limit for detention and our detention goes beyond what is prescribed by the Constitution. Furthermore, the Constitution stipulates that detention may take place after the decision of the first-degree court for a maximum period of three months from the day of detention. This deadline may be extended by a decision of the Supreme Court, which I stress, for another three months. So, if those deadlines are not filed by the end of the charge, the defendant shall be released. The constitution, of course, serves to interpret all laws, to behave all and everyone, so if we treat this this way, the Constitution says, only by the Supreme Court's decision can detention be extended for three months, and after the deadlines are over, it is released. So that's where the Constitution operates with deadlines. He doesn't say until some decision is made, the Constitution says, until the deadlines are up. We here, on the contrary, state in law—so a certain detention may take place until a first degree verdict has been reached. Since there's no time to say it, I think the proposer would have to predict the deadline. What time-limit would be, I don't know, it depends on the need to pass this law, but it's obvious that the Constitution is looking for a deadline, since we don't have a deadline for a verdict in the procedural criminal law, I think that detention here is practically limited by the limitations of prosecution, which can't be a time-limit for determining detention, nor is it so determined. In the very reason of the law, we find an analysis of the effects of the law, so it says: "The adoption of this law will not cost citizens and businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises". I don't see the role small and medium-sized enterprises play in detaining citizens. I think we should have written here how many citizens are in custody, how long they'll have to stay in custody for this, etc. Then, for reasons of entry into force before the eighth day, it is proposed that the law enter into force the next day in order not to expire detention for organised crime indictees. The part of the argument is not in line with the norm proposed, which is against the accused, who is released due to the expiry of the time limit, can be determined by detention. So it's only if he's released that he can be ordered into custody. It says here in an explanation that they wouldn't run out of detention. There are some disagreements. As with the first time I discussed the adoption of such a similar law, I can't help but feel that we have a certain discount on certain judicial authorities that we shouldn't have, because it's about the rights of citizens who are once again guaranteed by the Constitution, and that's Article 12. The Constitution, where freedoms and rights are exercised and duties are fulfilled under the Constitution, except where the Constitution provides for conditions for the exercise of rights and freedoms to be prescribed by law. I think this case is about our departments, especially the departments of the District Court that exist in Belgrade, which deal with the most difficult forms of crime, obviously not being able to enforce this law in a certain, accessible or time-limited manner. We need to think about how to improve the work of these departments, not about changing the law every six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24424	The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, then Petar Jojic, then Vjerica Radet. Meanwhile, one announcement, the 20th session of the Education Committee scheduled for Friday, December 23, 2005, was postponed for Monday, December 26th at 12:00 p.m., a third-floor hall. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24425	Mr. Markovic, as I understand it, the SPS is against the bill, G17 plus is against the bill, the SRS is against the bill. If you really want to show efficiency, it would be best to agree with the Government's representative to withdraw this law from the procedure, because it's illusory to waste words if this bill doesn't pass. I see you're not paying attention to what the MPs from this pay phone are saying, then I'll continue. The SRS, of course, opposes one such bill, there are many reasons. The first reason is that this initiative to change this member of the Code of Criminal Procedure is contrary to what you call the Constitutional Charter of the State Community, as you call it - a small charter, the Charter of Civil and Political Freedoms, contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. But I must say that this is also contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights, especially the provision of Article 7. European Conventions on Human Rights. I find nothing new when I repeat what my predecessors said. When there is a major conflict within the DS, then the DSS, which is in power to change regulations, is exactly what Boris Tadic, this Sutanovac, would want, which runs a media campaign against the National Assembly, and all of these others. Last time I explained to you that all these special courts are DS courts. When two politically-born brothers, Vuk Draskovic and Boris Tadic, are at odds, the DSS shakes and must change the laws. So the DSS shakes and changes laws, and in fact, the DSS acknowledges that it is in power in Serbia DS, which is seemingly opposition and justifiably absent from this hall. Yes, they changed the legal system of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, formed some special courts, but I have to remind you, from that date when there was a cause for the formation of these special courts and prosecutors, whether courts and departments were not important in the extreme case, because this is still a political discussion, first media condemnation of everything and everything, just to remind you, according to DS logic it was normal for them to attack the SRS. But according to their logic, it was almost short of your Vojislav Kostunica in "Sablja" being one of the victims of democracy. We have democracy. As democracy prevailed, so increased detention. With us when "Sabbe" began, behold, Serbia-Montenegro was admitted to the Council of Europe, completely opposite processes. So, those who command you from abroad suit the worst situation in Serbia. When the situation is worse in Serbia, you get praises, awards, recognitions, etc. Then a very smart prosecutor comes forward, and we have two special, untouchable, who says, there's a danger of some going free, and for them, you know, the presummation of innocence is true, and that wouldn't be good, because the prosecutor thinks they're criminals. Everyone's afraid of the DS reaction, which was essentially incompetent, while it was in power. It is that she has arrested 12,000 to 13,000 people and that the whole story of 12,000 to 13,000 people has been reduced to 45. Mr. Stojkovic, please show the documentation on the basis of which these arrests took place. I don't know, these people who are on the Security Committee, they had a chance to watch a little of that documentation, even those Committee atheists became Christians because they got baptized. They were baptized when they read a stenogram of meetings of the government of the Republic of Serbia as some agree, if you arrest me of this, then we will ask that yours be arrested. Why don't you arrest Nenad Chanka, since he was about to take over the mob at the time, wanted to take over a drug trafficking group on Vojvodina territory. You keep your mouth shut, but that's why you're afraid, so Karic's here, but come on, let go now. Shormaz Dragan, from the scene, throws. Take a look at those police reports. When I'm done, come and say it wisely. I can't say it again. I know there's been an I.D., but come after me, please, just let me finish this. You refrain from that intelligence, I don't bother anyone, you can speak freely. (President: Please... ) Like this, then a special prosecutor to cover up the use of alcohol in that democratic court, where judges don't talk, where judges simply, as at the auction, report, whoever wants a big salary goes to a special court, we want some prosecutor, we will. Who are we going to do this A friend?- I'm sorry. Well, he was JUL's. Never mind, he's done his job now. That's the democracy that slapped us with the government of Zoran Djindjic. That hashish, that anti-Hastian lobby. There is no Hague or anti-Hash, and special courts are being tried because no proper plot of criminal areas has been made. The criminal interests of the people who were in power at the time are in conflict. To entertain the audience in Serbia, come on, special court, trial of the century, century etc. You see for yourself how the day goes, you all forgot the first initial information when the trial started. This is now going to something else. Now the DS is judging itself and she's having a hard time doing her job, because everyone's involved. Has Tadic managed to solve the Bodrum thing, and has promised and deceived probably 10% of the citizens who voted, the DS will clear it up. As far as I can tell, Novakovic is still staring at something, Pajtic is still making progress without me talking about these others. The only thing Neda said was, she's making a movie, probably. It's democracy. It is this corrupt democracy of the DS, which is the product of the Bolshevik way of thinking in 1945 and 1948 that was in Serbia. These are their ideological heirs, grandchildren. Now, you see how they do it and how they end it. Now let's go back to what the minister might be able to comment on when he goes out and say that these are the legal reasons why a change of law is proposed. Now let me tell you, Mr Stojkovic, there is no legal reason to change this law. Take the European Convention on Human Rights, see Articles 6 and 7, and we also have these powerful NGOs that follow the work of the European Court of Human Rights. Let the decisions and attitudes of the European Court of Human Rights be reviewed when it comes to detention. Now, because of my profession and something that I'm doing intensively these days, and as far as The Hague is concerned, I need you and the public to know how the theory looks and how it looks at court practice. The European Convention on Human Rights of each person is guaranteed to be considered innocent until a judicial verdict condemns itself. Those predecessors of mine who have talked here about those people who are in custody that they are criminals, would be better off coming out and giving an apology, because if you don't give an apology, then you act the same way as Zoran Djindjic or that Micunovic, who says, "What, let them go and let innocence prove it." Another thing, as a minimum guarantee, every human being is guaranteed the right to a fair, quick and expeditional trial. Anyone who is suspected and yet charged, and especially the person who is detained, his elemental right, which the state must provide to him in the light of the court and the one who persecutes him, regardless of what the accused system is – whether this investigator or the other accused so-called. Acoustically, that minimum of rights must be guaranteed by the state to the individual. It's his right to be tried quickly. His right to be immediately informed of all charges and of whatever is put on him. His right is to give him enough time to prepare his own defense. He has the right to an effective and quick trial. The state must respect another obligation, its obligation, which is to respect the right of the accused to be prosecuted without undue delay. It's said somewhere, within a reasonable time. I do not dispute that there are both in continental and especially in the Anglo-Saxon legal system solutions that do not time-limit the length of detention. There, the court practice did quite well and defined the length of time in custody. For Anglo-Saxon law, Barker's case against Wing is characteristic, and for our continentally interesting decisions, especially those that have been made since 1982, including Austria, and the Netherlands, and England, and Turkey, and not to speak any further. However, there are legal systems in which the legal standard is limited, i.e. to determine the maximum length of detention. We're one of the few states that had that good solution. Any time limit on the length of detention was in the capacity to protect the detained person and the accused, but at the same time it was a warrant for a court that judges and a prosecutor who persecutes them to finish their job. Mr Stojkovic, we will not vote for this law. Since the bill probably won't go through, it means inform the Republic Public Prosecutor to initiate criminal proceedings against judges and prosecutors who were inactive, because they are members of an organised association that aims to enable these people, who are suspects in custody, to go free. That's the real story of what's going on. You're replacing us with thesis here. We need to cover the ineffectiveness of the court. I won't cover the ineffectiveness of the court. We need to cover the prosecutor's incompetence. I don't want to cover the prosecutor's incompetence by changing the law where the detention is extended. Even in those countries where the length of detention, or length of detention, is not explicitly legally defined, restricted, there are certain principles and certain criteria and some tests to determine whether there has been an infringement of the right of the detainee. Whether he has been violated the right to justice as the widest form of one right, especially the right to a swift and effective trial and the right to a trial without undue delay. Then they give some criteria, I'm just going to point them out, there are seven-eightths wide-sighted, and the ropes observed are four. First: the complexity of the subject; what is the complexity of these items, specifically, which are used as a reason for the bill. According to police reports and what the prosecution has, according to what the public has been informed, these cases are easy. Why? They are from an area where indeed occurs in organised crime by performing those acts of extortion, drug trafficking, drugs, and other means, and possibly two more. The democratic party needs a connection to the murder, with complicity in the murder of their prime minister, and they are counting -- extend detention, in the meantime Bogoljub will pay, Sutanovac will advertise, the West will support, they will fall, they will return and end that second stage that was cut short in December 2003. When you put up with a bill like this, you're with them in the coalition, just like the ones who designed it to happen in our country. Further, the second test or condition: negligence or the sealing of the court. There is no such thing, but let the issue of negligence in these special courts be resolved by one who is in charge of the issue within the judicial branch of the government. Here, I will mention the President of the Supreme Court and all those associations and institutions within the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia, starting from the Great Personal Council, to the High Council of Justice, and the Supervisory Board, which should have insight, and also the President of the Court, who runs this department and that court. They're responsible for negligence. If negligence is shown in such a significant case for DS, then it's not just negligence, then it's something more difficult in which there must be elements of a crime. Is the court buried? Who buried him? Democrats buried their court, arrested 12,000 people. There are some who have been sitting in a single room for two or three months and no one has come to ask them what your name is, what you do, if you have done anything, if you have any touch points with Mutavi and others, etc. Then who's to blame? Someone in power. Check it out over there. Jocic is in charge of the police department. One part of the police arrests, arrests, fights organized crime. Resolve. The guilt that the trials didn't begin is there, not with those who lie down. They're just poor passive observers. They are presummated by innocence, and every journalist can write about them whatever he wants, of course, some time out of his mouth, and sometimes passing on a statement by a prominent DS politician, of course, to avoid his personal responsibility for what he writes. Third: the defendant's contribution not to begin the trial. No indictee in custody can contribute to delaying the trial. When I say at the beginning of the trial, you can freely extend the trial process to the very length of the trial, until the decision-making process is made. How can he? Someone here was very smart, so in the paper he criticized lawyers who were defenders and who allegedly misused the law, so they put up with submissions, asked for exemption, asked for art, etc. What did they abuse? Do they have the right under the Code of Criminal Procedure? They do. If they have that right, how can they abuse? Let the court organise itself. It seems to me that last year we changed that part of the Code of Criminal Procedure, so we stopped it from paraphrasing, they can do it once, but they can't keep repeating it. What's next? The defendant can't make a contribution to that. Next, who's in harm's way? He suffers damage to the defendant in custody, especially those cases where the trial didn't begin or in those cases where the trial started, but it goes sloppy. Now let me explain to you what a natural connection it is between those of the DS who came up with this, and I know who is behind this: Natasa Kandić, Sonja Biserko and Voojin Dimitrijevic, the one who worked for others long ago. They scared over the media those of you who are in power, but what they're proposing, that's what Carla del Ponte is doing in The Hague. Here, on February 24, 2006, they have been turning three since Vojislav Seselj was in custody, and the phase of the process in The Hague is called the pre-warrant phase. To buy time, Carla del Ponte, so that something could end here, if they could get on their feet these Democrats, because he was there only because of political interests, at the request of Nebojko Covic, Zoran Djindjic and Socrates-Svilanovic, because Seselj was a bone in their throats, they could not do anything here, they were afraid not to win the presidential elections, they better ask their friend Karla, who has now become a great friend with Vuk Draskovic (she promised him he would not go to The Hague for Serbian Guard and these others), to press charges. Vojislav reported on February 24th, 26th, 2003, says - I defend myself, I don't need any defenders, let us begin the trial immediately. On May 9, 2003, at the request of Carla del Ponte, the search party decided that Vojislav Seselj, who defends himself, was assigned by the defender to stand by and first became one unfortunate Lazarevic. When he saw that something was broken, he ran away and now a Dutchman, or for a year and a half, came home friend with the secretary of The Hague. They installed themselves there to take UN money, but also to make it impossible for Vojislav Seselj to defend himself. By the way, nine months of banning communication with family, with relatives, with friends, with an expert team helping him prepare defenses, by means of banning phone communication, listening to all phone communications. Of course, they boast everywhere that they have not disaved anything and conducted any discrimination against the accused Vojislav Seselj. And he is the only man on the globe of the earth, of all the prisoners who have these elemental problems, or is not recognized by what is the basic right of every human being. What's going on now? At his request for the trial to begin at last until 24 March of the following year, when he ends three years of detention, or to be released, or to be released, because apparently the prosecution has nothing, in accordance with the General Declaration and all possible conventions, pacts treated with human rights—as he has the right to an expeditional trial, you are making a connection with this DS initiative to change this criminal code, you see that this is the exact same story – The Hague tribunal rejects such a request. And as our people would say in the jargon, 'it's a cold statement - we didn't plan to have your trial open until March 24th next year. That's it. The whole decision is one sentence. There's something like a half-way introduction and a UN tribunal's first decision with no footnote, no legal basis, nothing. I can do anything, as if the decision was written by the DS. Now, you see how the international community supposedly respects what they say is a modern civilization, and you're pushing us with your head no matter what we go to that bear's hole. Mr Stojkovic, that is the second reason why we believe that there are restrictions on the length of detention, which is in the capacity of the accused, and that is the task - to take care of the accused, of course, as should be taken into account that materially and otherwise help the prosecution and courts. As far as I can see, there's no initiative here to help the prosecution and the court materially, organisationally, professionally. No, we're going to solve all these problems and shortcomings by extending the man's detention period, so instead of two years, it's going to be four years. Between you and me, I have to tell you that what you're asking now to change is much more humane than what you first changed. The first time -- it's been defined to last four years because of the assumption of how much prison punishment could be, so, theoretically, anyone can fall under that provision. But the problem of what you're proposing today, to cover acts in the field of organised crime, is not solved by the length of detention, but by many actions, measures and powers, which I have to say exist in the Code of Criminal Procedure, which concerns the pre-cover procedure, special units, special units, special units, which will record, monitor, control, form an object before the arrest, and then deprive them of freedom, determine detention, and within three or four months, the trial begins. That's the way to fight organized crime, not put him in jail, so let's wait. To see how the Democrats imitate the democracy of the United States. In Barker's case against Wing, there was such a situation, there were riots, city insubordination, after that, as a result of the unrest, that a couple's house, an old couple, was found a victim. Two people were suspected. They're both detained without any evidence. The procedure lasted for years, or nothing was done in the process. The prosecutor justified his passivity by saying it – we were not focusing on the defendant, but on putting pressure on the second accused to confess, and his confession to use the defendant against him. Don't you know that's what you do in a special court? There, it's done in a special court. I know, Mr Stojkovic, that you will go out afterwards and tell me that there are views of the European Court of Human Rights where the detention lasted and 11 years, where it lasted 7 years, where it lasted 5 years. I know that there are such examples, where he appreciated the European Court of Human Rights just these aspects that I was talking about, he even went on – on seven-eight criteria, so on. tests, and found that there was no violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. That's how it's defined in the European Charter. In the United Nations, it is said – without undue delay, and in Europe it is said – within a reasonable period of time, and now a reasonable time limit is interpreted as it will be. I don't want to interpret him as much as he wants to. I advocate that this provision, which you have suggested, does not change, is to remain. Now you have quite enough elements to examine who it is from the structures of these special courts and prosecutors made it possible, those who were suspects, with a lot of rights that came out and called out all those who had called them for two and more years and qualified as some criminals in the paper. I'm not entering the material content. There may be some in that group. However, the democratic court has not convinced me, nothing democratic has convinced me. Remember, whatever she did to DS, that's bad. The state community -- a disaster; two other rudes who sign the Belgrade Agreement are baptized, they say -- we have signed something, we don't even know what it is, and then represent it in this assembly in 2003 to adopt it. So one court is formed. Here's the radio-dip advice. Did the DS make it? The disaster, it's not doing anything yet. They've created a Telecommunications Council, they can't share frequencies, and everything is epochal. They just corn and nothing else, then there's nothing, then the state disappears. They have this beautiful story through their media, NGOs, colourful lies, people's instructions to beautiful stories, organise special shows, reverse essences, marginalize the main political issue with some question that may even be the most brutal perversion. It is the Democratic Party, which destroys the foundations of this nation, this country, changes the mental image. You see for yourself how many media campaigns are being run across newspapers, where everything turns. It is a primate. The criminals will be released. Where are their judges? They don't talk to each other. She complained about that woman herself, that there's a spokesman there, they call her a folk hero. He says I need to publish something, I can't get information from Kljajevic. They don't talk to each other. How are you not ashamed to come and ask us to change the law that they don't talk about? From this pay phone a few days ago, I was telling you about that Bruno Vekaric and Vukkovic, it seems to me, for war crimes. That's Tadic's prosecutor. They'll condemn you all just to show themselves in the world who they are and what they are. If necessary, it will be mounted. Why don't you change that? Are you the government? Rule men! Take the laws and rule! Don't let the Democratic Party, which just apparently came out of this assembly, be present here, through the media, its judges, prosecutors, exert pressure, attack. You, in order for someone not to call you, there are poor people to swallow and I'll hook you up. Who do you think you're talking to? Is it his father's or his father's? Chedi Jovanovic and those junkies of his toddlers? You won't have the support of the SRS. So to conclude, Serbian citizens, there is no constitutional and legal reason for this provision of the Code of Criminal Procedure to change. Any change would mean a violation of the fundamental rights guaranteed to each individual, not only in Serbia, but in the world. I want you to figure out who's pushing this and why. The Democratic Party, because it was tasked with destroying Serbia. In the case of The Hague, in the case of San Francisco, Barker v. Wing, I only showed you the identity of what Carla del Ponte is doing, the Democratic Party and those who hate this people. That's why I'm proposing to you from the DSS, since I see that you're the only ones left, that you haven't criticised this bill, influence the government to withdraw this law from the procedure. And immediately initiate appropriate actions, you will see whether it is disciplinary, criminal, against these people who have allowed the inactivity of the court and deceived you into being justified to amend this law. Second, you finally have to tell me when you're gonna arrest Karic?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24426	I thank you, Mr. Krassic. The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, and for the word to be prepared, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24427	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in no European country or outside Europe, in parallel law, you will not find that amendments and additions of system law will be made, especially when it comes to criminal code or criminal code, for individual cases. No laws are passed, nor are laws changed for individual cases. This draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, which refers to a chapter that regulates and norms the determination, duration and termination of detention, is obviously the work of those who wish to violate the legal order, especially when it comes to criminal law, but the work and those who wish on two occasions to apply the new provisions of the norm proposed. The Ibar highway, the Zemun clan and the murder of Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, cannot be cases for amending criminal legislation. Hence, the proposals encourage and hence pressure and now the question arises whether the current government wants to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Constitutional Charter, the Declaration of Human Rights, the UN Resolution and any other norms that regulate citizens' rights and freedoms. Everything is risky if we step away from the Constitution. The constitution is a guarantee for rights and freedoms. The Constitution should be a guarantee that all enjoy under the same conditions equal rights in respect of the exercise of personal rights and personal freedoms. In this case, the proposal obviously seeks to force parliament to pass such a law that this parliament could be ashamed of in front of European parliaments. Why? If the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides in Article 22 that everyone has the right to appeal for the decision of any court, any state authority, then the motioner should not have come before this parliament with a proposal for a norm saying that in the event that the greater one refuses a motion to abolish detention or order an extension of the detention of the suspect or accused, or the defendant does not have the right to appeal. Therefore, in the most harsh way, the provision of Article 22 is violated. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Secondly, what the predecessors said, in any case, that colleagues pointed to very serious matter, pointed to important facts, suggest that there is no legal basis, first there is no constitutional basis, and therefore there is no legal basis for amending the law on criminal proceedings that regulate the length of detention. What's this about? We'll come up with facts that I'll draw your attention to. The Republic of Serbia's budget alone stands out 41 million for the Special Prosecutor's Office. Ladies and gentlemen, let's say, the war crimes prosecutor's office -- we declared Serbian knights and heroes to be war criminals, many of them, and many don't know who's on secret indictments and lists of so-called war criminals. a self-called The Hague tribunal. He was accused, as Mr Krasic said, and SRS President Prof. Vojislav Seselj of a joint criminal enterprise and attributed it to Professor Seselj that he was associated with those, with them and those with whom Professor Vojislav Seselj had never met, nor did he know these people. Among other things, they're accusing him of giving fire speeches. Many feared Professor Vojislav Seselj, because he is extremely popular in our people, feared elections and election results, and then in Belgrade they concluded a indictment with which The Hague tribunal does not know what to do now. They can tie her to a cat's tail and run around The Hague, because there's no evidence that Professor Vojislav Seselj did any work. Now it's three years, no trial. The Declaration of Human Rights provides a reasonable time for the trial to begin. What's going on here right now? This is where we're about to legalize the lawlessness of the Sabre action. The others are gone. With the participation of judicial authorities and executive bodies, the authorities of the administration took part in the deprivement of the freedom of 12,500 of our citizens. Where are those charges? Where are these people found guilty or convicted? Where are these evidence of a number of protagonists in the Sabela action? So this is where someone needs to mutilate the lawlessness of Natasha Micic. Let's not forget that. From the creation of modern Serbia to today, and I believe that this will not happen in history or future, that one woman, who has declared herself a V.D. President of the Republic, has passed a regulation declaring the state of emergency and ordering -- arrest this scum in Serbia, as it was said at the secret session of the Government of the Republic of Serbia at that time; this should be arrested, especially by political opponents. What's just as interesting, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is that every government was grabbed to grab the judiciary under its command and take it into its own hands. I don't think you, gentlemen of the coalition, are going to allow one law to be passed, which is above all not in accordance with the Constitution, nor with the Constitutional Charter. Why did the idea of making a motion to extend custody from two to four years? There's no excuse. In the Committee on the Justice of the Republic of Serbia, whose member I am, I will suggest that data be delivered on the defendants, on the evidence, on the procedural actions that these judges have taken in each case, to see their burden, to see if this is a complex case. They're not complex objects, they're fictitiously complex objects, to create in public performances and the impression that they're murders. These murders are still being tried today by our district courts. What are we talking about? Organized crime, three or more committed crimes, including the perpetrator or perpetrators, has a helper, an instigator, in a broader sense an accomplice. The most difficult acts since 1945 have been tried by district courts, pronounced by our parliament. We've now made a special court play. It is the House of Lords that decides on the most difficult works in the English Parliament. It's an untouchable judgment, a god above God, a court above all courts, a prosecution over all prosecutions. Please, let's put that back on track. Let's put it out of the way. That's a lot of the state. Let me tell you why these judges are slow. It suits them. They have twice the salary of judges of the Supreme Court or judges of the district court, two or three times, here are colleagues, and Minister Stojkovic confirms they have twice the salary. If you have, gentlemen, in that special court, in that department and in the special prosecutor's office twice the salary, you have to have twice as many norms as you have regular judges. What is it that they're going to bring to this country as well, what are they going to call the judges of the special department and the special prosecutor? Nothing. In the Belgrade District Court, Panchevo, Smederevo, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Valjevo, Užice, Nis is tried for murder, tried for organised crime, the most severe sentences are imposed, and why does it take the prosecutor to wait a year for him to press charges or not? Why should this country pay its citizens the damage of hundreds of millions, because they are innocently imprisoned, arrested and tortured? That's what we have on the Security Committee. They cost the state more than they deserve. Secondly, let's see in what capacity Natasa Kandic attends the trials where the defender is? In what capacity does one person who does not have the property of a party have the power of attorney, or defender? Where's the defense attorney, where's the power of attorney, what's someone in humanitarian law doing there? Who in that court allowed Natasa Kandic to ask questions for five hours, to interfere with the court, to prevent the court from effectively finishing cases? Who has allowed her to form since 1991 for many citizens in Serbia her secret files? Who let that happen? Mr. Minister, under your authority and jurisdiction, check or request information on whether Natasa Kandic is party to the proceedings at these trials, whether she has the right to participate, to ask questions to the defendants, witnesses and all those involved in the proceedings. I believe that, under the applicable Code of Criminal Procedure, there is nothing to look for, nor can he participate in the procedure and have an active ID. It can't, it has to stop! Secondly, all judges in the special department must call for responsibility as to why they held cases and why they do not order searches. Now let's see how many trials they've had, how long the trials have lasted, how many witnesses have been heard on the day of the delay, whose guilt was the delay, how much the lawyer's submissions cost, how much the complaint costs, how much each preparatory submission written by the lawyers. And the next thing you know, if you accept my proposal, check out who the lawyers are in front of that court. I have knowledge that mostly lawyers are in front of a special court of the former judge, and they can't come to defend by official duty the lawyers delivered by the bar. Why? Someone needs to take the money. Do you know how much one approach to a major search where a 40-year sentence has been threatened? About 200 euros and more. On the other hand, everyone who participates in the interest of delaying the procedure. Don't let us finish our classes for a year or two, make them ten years, we've got a receipt. So these people have motive. What's the motive? You can only see how much they cost you over the budget of the Republic of Serbia, how much it costs the special court department, how much special prosecutors cost, and you'll come to an account that this country is not so rich as to finance everything and everything, when we have good judges, we have expert judges in county courts, extremely capable. Our judges, when you compare with European and world judges, when you compare those who judge in The Hague, our judges are great masters for those who judge there. Ask who they are and where they come from and you see their qualifications, and we have in our courts extremely good and honorable judges. These judges can judge cases currently in front of a special court. So there's a string of those who can come to participate in the process, these have an interest – which we have to finish ten cases or twenty in a special court, let's put it off. Second, do they have security and escorts? Uh, how much is their security and escort? Who gave security to them? Why? Do the judges of the district court or the Supreme Court have security? They don't. Well, they can't have them either. What is it, when they receive the wages to keep them from being robbed, that someone may not commit robbery on them? Don't, please, this isn't appropriate for this country. In regular streams, all of it. I believe that a special court should be suspended, the D.A.'s office suspended and sent back to the D.A.'s office level. We have the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court needs to be strengthened – all cases are resolved, but in time. What's the judge waiting to write the verdict? Even if enabled, here in paragraph 2 what is proposed can remain in custody! If no judge has complied with the decision and norm of the Code of Criminal Procedure where it is prescribed, within what time it must write the verdict, that I am the Minister and President of the Supreme Court, immediately a motion for resolution. He's got nothing to look for. Let him go where he can do some other duty, but he's not for the judge. He's causing damage. I repeat, hundreds of millions will pay for what Natasa Micic, along with her self-called group, has arrested 12,000 people. You'll see a lot of people now. Now, I'm asking, will a public prosecutor answer, who submitted the motions for an investigation, press charges, no evidence, no grounds, will any of them be called to account? Why would the state of Serbia pay from the taxpayers' budget for damages it does not have to, and that is the damage that individuals have done with their unprofessional work and ignorance, or it was a political decision. Then the question arises whether we have an independent judiciary. There are many more thorny roads to an independent judiciary. Political parties must raise their hands from the judiciary. Without that, we have no judicial reform at all. What you're doing, but do even more so that in municipal courts you have the rightful presidents of the court, in the county's rightful presidents of the district courts, prosecutors. Find the elders of the judicial authorities. Control their budgets. You control whether the means are spent on purpose. So there is much to be done and judicial reform. That's what I wanted to say. And here, again, Mr. Minister, you see in Article 22. The Constitution provides that everyone has the right to appeal to any decision of the court or of the state authority. In this proposal, if a decision is made and taken, the decision to extend detention or to suspend detention shall be the court's decision. It can't be said that there is no right to appeal against that decision. So, in any case, Mr. Stojkovic, if this bill comes into force, you will face serious problems in practice. Do you know how much abuse there will be here? A lot of abuses. The possibility of doing whatever he wants is open. He says - if he obviously doesn't come to the main search, perhaps for justifiable reasons, he won't talk to him again whether he was in the hospital or was at his father or mother's funeral, but I'll bring him a solution to determine his detention. He won't have the right to appeal, no reason, no defense, no way to say it - people, I was at my father's funeral, my mother's brother's brother's cousin's, I was in the hospital, I was in surgery. No, the solution is made, you have no right to take him straight to CZ. Not so, however, this Serbia has shown in recent history that it can also be a democratic state. Without the name of the Democratic Party or without the name of the democratic bloc, since 1990, when a multi-parliamentary system was introduced, without October 5th, we were one democratic state, developing and becoming one of the more modern states. We have agreed 12,000 laws with the European Union and European countries before 5 October. Whoever thinks it's not true to check with the federal and republican authorities, they'll see to it. Good, laws are passed, but I think good laws should be passed. Repeat, Mr. Minister, you were away, you were busy. We cannot allow, Mr. Minister, the law to change for individual cases. The Ibar highway, the Zemun clan and the murder of Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic must not be a reason for us to change the law and that the law may apply to 20 people, but to allow individuals to widely interpret and abuse the law. I'm against it. I've been a lawyer for decades, I'm a lawyer, you know, and I can tell you this is not enough reason, not enough reason for our country, not the government to come out with a proposal like this. There's no need. I told you, I want you to remove the special department, the special court, the special prosecutor's office. Return to normal flows and competent authorities, ministries to work on their own rules of procedure and within their jurisdiction. Of course, you have good intentions, but you have to make it happen. If your intentions are good, to make good legislation, citizens are looking for results. What's the result of this? The result of this is a wide range of opportunities for abuse. It's gonna be, like, three of them break into a store, like, in Sopot, maybe four, and the fourth one was hiding; let's press charges, go to the Special Court, or the Department of Organized Crime. They're organized because they broke into three or four stores along the way and a gas station, and they're done. I'm telling you, I've been following 35 years of courts, participating in justice in a direct or indirect way, and I can tell you, in practice I've had thousands of cases where 10, 15, 20 people participated, and we haven't raised that to the level of organized crime. On a pedestal to make us the only country in Europe that is the worst and that we have the worst organized crime. Oh, God, let's get rid of that evil. No, all of this should go back to normal, because it's the only way you're going to achieve more success than now by passing these laws. You, Mr. Minister, have witnessed that there have been cases in this House, not where you were the promoter, because you're more thorough when you want to change something, although not enough, to say the least, you see it from all sides, but the SRS lawyers tell you. You were in a situation where you accepted our amendments and thus confirmed that Serbian radicals were both professional and well-intentioned, that they contributed to the improvement of the texts with which you went before this parliament. Therefore, I am of the opinion that this proposal, Mr. Minister, should be withdrawn; there is no reason, no justification, I am not sure that you will get a majority in parliament. God help you if parliament accepts this. But I've heard here from both G17 and other parties, and the SRS for this bill won't vote for the reason he won't be effective at anything. It would only be harmful, it would create conditions, I repeat, for many abuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24428	The People's MP Vjerica Radeta has the word, and let the National MP Milan Stevovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24429	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it started to be written in the paper these days that we would have this bill on the agenda, I really didn't believe that you, Minister Stojkovic, a man as serious as you, would allow yourself to stand behind this law, that is, to amend and supplement this law, and with some explanation that really has nothing to do with what is the essence of the law, or what is written in the very reasoning of the law. Of course, when the media announced amendments to this law, it was openly said that this law had to be changed, to bring exactly what it was proposed, because if this law is not passed, they had to be released, as they said, the murderers of Zoran Djindjic and the murderers of the Ibar highway. I keep wondering why someone from the Ministry or the Supreme Court never reacts, I ask it often and publicly, when such a statement is made by officials; that one there, Bruno Vekaric, is a spokesman. It's a newspaper of democracy that every judge has his own portfolio, every prosecutor has his own portfolio. So then Bruno Vekaric and Maja Kovacevic, I don't know what her second name was, come out and say – the law needs to be changed so that the murderers Zoran Djindjic and the murderers from the Ibar highway are not released. Now I ask you, Minister, and I ask them, who knows who the murderers of Zoran Djindjic are, and who the murderers of Ibar (Ibar) are? Is this a law-abiding procedure? I'm a lawyer, and I would never let myself do that. There are people who are suspects, who are being prosecuted, but to call them murderers, I would never allow myself to do that, because a serious man can't say that. This law of yours, that is, these two members, who seem to have been able to pass undetectedly, but not despite the MPs of the SRS, is evidence that Serbia is not a legal state and that there is no legal certainty in Serbia at all. As many as you claim to be legalists, to belong to a party of legalists, thank you for asking, you are regularly denied these bills. That's not good. It's not good that you're proposing a law that dictates the presummation of innocence. It's not good that you're proposing a law that implies retroactivity. All of these are well-known and recognised principles of right and indeed no government behind this can serve honor, nor can it be praised by expertise. That's why I'm convinced, Minister, that what you're saying here is something you're supposed to say, because I can't believe you think that's what you said. You said this proposal was the law – and the first one we talked about in time, because this is already the fifth amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure; every time we, Serbian radicals, talk and announce something that will be the subject of some subsequent changes and additions, every time it is really true, I don't know that you don't take seriously what we do and talk about – that's what this part of the law is about, because our courts are not solid. I really don't know what you mean. What does a solid court mean? Courts can work well and can work badly. Solid and insolent, I really don't know; I find it insolent when Bruno Vekarić comes out and looks at the empty and comments on the unfair judgments. I find it incompatible when she comes out, who is also a spokesman for the special department and who comments on the unfair verdicts. It's non-solid, it's non-serious. This, to be a criterion for Europe or any European institution, is not possible and is not true. You also said, Minister, that part of the Zemun group was released because the court did not work solidly. I really don't know what this means. The court has to respect the laws, it has to respect the deadlines. It's certainly been enough time since all these people were detained and that the court could be defined and that he could decide. Why not? It's a question we've been looking for for years. And every time we talk about the subject of courts or laws in this area, every time, ministers, we draw attention to that it is not a problem in regulations, the problem is in organisation, in functioning and the problem is in a small number of people in courts who regret and money in courts. You don't listen to us, and then you get into a situation where you listen to what we have to say about these suggestions. I'm absolutely convinced that you're not comfortable hearing all this, but we have to say what we really think and what we know is true and that it is legally subdued. And all that we're saying today is you're going to repeat in a few months when you're going to suggest changes and additions again, although you said, of course, that you're going to propose a whole new law. We Serbian radicals always support this way of legislative work both the government and parliament; changes and additions mean nothing. Satisfying this or that condition, changing the law from this or that, justifiable or unwarranted reason, it's not serious. It can possibly be done for the first month or two of the government's work, so something is very urgent, the government has noticed that something is completely unconstitutional or very poorly regulated, and then the reverse-application suggests changes and additions to some regulation. You can accept that. But after two years of government existence, alterations and additions are unacceptable. You also said, Minister, that these amendments to the law are not about classical crime, but about some particularly serious crimes. There's no classic and modern crime. There is a crime that threatens the proper punishment. What's supposed to be here, this lowest level of threat to punishment, can be really what you called a classic crime. I assume you were referring to a crime that wasn't organized by criminal groups, etc. You also said that what you're proposing today is that these are principled changes. If this is principled, Minister, then I really don't know what undisciplined looks like. What did you suggest? To add in the Code of Criminal Procedure Article 146, paragraph 3 after the word "prison" the words "and for acts of organised crime for which a sentence of ten years or more severe punishment has been threatened". The point is that since the indictment of detention, it may take the longest two or four years for acts for which the sentence has been threatened, and it has been 40 years in prison, and you now say 'and for acts of organised crime for which a sentence of ten years has been threatened or more severe punishment'. You add a brand-new position and you say, 'against the accused who, due to the expiry of the term set out in Article 3, is released, can be ordered detention if (this accused) is hidden, escapes or tries to escape, or has been properly invited, and does not come or apparently avoids coming to the main search. That way, a certain detention can last until a first degree sentence'. I don't know how you do, but to me, Minister, this looks like a life sentence. You have not limited anything, firstly, how you and how much you will open up the possibility of abuse in this, now, Article 4. Therefore, the accused who, due to the expiry of the period set out in Article 3, is released may be ordered to be detained if he is hiding. Okay, that's technically, the point is, if he's hiding. You can always say he's hiding, he's gone from work, if he's working somewhere, and he's not going straight home, but he's coming to the godfather, the judge can say, "Hide and don't go home." He says he can escape or try to escape. If he escapes, you've already lost some of them and what you'll see with them. You say if he tries to escape, you can always say that. You can always say, you see a man start his car and go to sea and somewhere near Mecca's junk, near Tutina, you'll stop him and say, "He's on the run," yes, in another country, of course. You say if he's invited neatly, and he doesn't show up or apparently avoids coming to the main search. What does that mean, indeed, is what Jojic was talking about. We know what it means when he's properly informed, but what it means if he doesn't come; whether he has the right to explain why he didn't come and whether he can happen to break his leg on the way, whether it can happen to him that, God forbid, someone dies that morning, whether it can happen to him, God forbid, burn down his house just that morning. Mr. Mikavica is baptized, and I say "don't God" everything, and you should be baptized, because you will vote for such a law. In the light of the law, you are calling for a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, and we Serbian radicals are telling you that there is no constitutional basis, and you say that the constitutional basis is contained in Article 15(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 15(2) The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia reads: "No one must be deprived of liberty except in cases and in the procedure laid down by law." You're making this right with the law. If this is your solution, then really... We continue to argue that this is unconstitutional and the whole proposal is unconstitutional, as it does not comply with EU and European Convention on Human Rights. That it is true that this proposal has not been made in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article 136. This is a newspaper, this is a democratic product, that the authorised legislator of the law submits a bill in the form in which the law is passed by reason, and then, among other things, the draftr of the law, as a rule, states in the interpretation of the law and the basis of EU legislation and the general rules of international law. You didn't specify this, so it doesn't exist. That's exactly what we're telling you. So, even the proposal doesn't even comply with the Rules of Procedure, although we have objections to that part of the Rules of Procedure, but that's something else. Mr. Minister, you should answer to the MPs when you intend to arrest these people for whom you pass the law. How are you going to do that? Is it going to be some big mess, pomp, if you're just going to really call them or tonight or tomorrow, after the law comes into force tomorrow, to declare that they've started to run away and end up like Dule Spasojevic and that Godfather, because that too can happen if someone who's being called out for a BOLO escapes. So, very sensitive and we expect you to really explain it to us. All that we have on the agenda today, Mr. Minister, is the consequence of the existence of special courts and special prosecutors. You're going to tell me now, but I'm going to stand up right now - there are no special courts and special prosecutors; of course, I know that, the prosecution does, but not special courts, I speak as usual. It is the district court department and it has been a problem for us since the very beginning – why make such a difference between judges. They have the same completed school, same professional training, same working experience, in the same court, in the same office worked, in the same courtroom, and someone is responsible for getting three times the salary, and now twice the salary of a colleague who stayed in that courtroom and in that cabinet where they worked together for years. That's when a mistake was made. I've told you many times that I was very comfortable listening when you gave your position on those special departments in one of the first speeches. I really expected this government of yours and the Ministry, whose head you are, to be returned to normal and that all judges who meet the conditions, who are otherwise guilty of serious crimes, would be dealt with. No difference could be made, nor should the law be changed and these "specialists" formed. You see how these other "specialists" did a good job for you, I'm talking about those war crimes, to prove that they are solid, because you use that term – again I apologize for speaking at all about this verdict, because it is a first degree verdict and I know that it is not public to talk about such judgments, but I have to mention - the Ovcaru verdict was made on the basis of the testimony of two protected witnesses. It's like back in 1946 when two witnesses took their heads off. It's the same now in this modern so-called. democratic legislation. You didn't have a problem with respecting the law. They were quickly detained, detained, quickly completed, and, more sadly, officially that Bruno Vekaric, the miracle of man, the first associate of Vladan Batic, and then today, Batic set him up there, was there at the ministry, so he was afraid when the new minister came to kick Bruno Vekaric, so he put him in a special prosecutor's office, that Bruno Vekaric came out and said that the job around Ovcara had not yet been completed, especially in relation to those who had been released and who had received less than 20 years in prison. He says, "These are freed for lack of evidence." These are really amazing formulations. If there's evidence, then there's evidence, and then someone's guilty based on some evidence case being brought before the court. What does lack of evidence mean? It means that someone, me, anyone can call a murderer, arrest us and let us go after a while for lack of evidence. We need to think a little more seriously about it and understand what is essentially behind such statements by the Serbian judiciary's official representatives. Of course, I can't miss either, my colleagues were talking about the case of the president of Serbian radicals in The Hague. For nearly three years, Professor Vojislav Seselj will be in the Hague casamat. Given the kind of hollow indictment and senselessness that exists against him, which is written in Belgrade, Krasic and I will repeat it, Zoran Djindjic, Goran Svilanovic and Nebojsa Covic wrote, and on the basis of such charges, Vojislav Seselj has been doing so for nearly three years in the Hague case and they do not think of a trial. Of course, they are afraid of the trial, they know they have no evidence and therefore they do nothing, especially in addition to the testimony that Vojislav Seselj had in the process of Slobodan Milosevic. Tomorrow, at the House of Unions, at 4:00, there will be a promotion of his book with these testimony and certain comments. All those who are interested, who come to the House of Unions, will hear much that goes into favor with what we Serbian radicals are saying here. When we talk about organised crime groups, Mr. Minister, this is a very ticky combination, and it would be good for everyone who has accepted that this just becomes an integral part of the law to think carefully about what this can mean and how someone can be classified into an organized criminal group. I ask you, Minister Stojkovic, are you prepared for life in accordance with this law? What can happen? You are a member of the government of Vojislav Kostunica. It may happen that one day the authorities rightly determine that Mladjan Dinkic abused the National Savings Bank, that he took some money there. He is a member of the government and you are declaring yourself an organized criminal group, and Kostunica, both you and Dinkic and the other ministers, not to list them now. Are you ready to answer in accordance with that article, God forbid that this happens to you, where he says "so a certain detention can take a while to pass a first degree sentence". Or, say, who's going to go to this life sentence? Because that's really how I interpret it, for the fifth time I read, "That way, a certain detention can last until a first degree sentence is passed." It's unlimited time. I see it as someone's life sentence, which doesn't exist in our law. If it is determined, what the newspaper wrote, that the BIA was listening to the MPs, who, as an organized criminal group, who will then be detained, who will answer everything and go to prison? Mr. Minister, at the time of the "Sabbe" action, which has been mentioned here, when something unremembered in modern Europe has really been done, I will remind you that Natasa Micic, with her shoulder purse, comes out for a pay phone in front of reporters and says, "I have decided to declare a state of emergency." So Sabela declares the "Sabbe" action and that in this action, "Sabbe" over 12,000 honest citizens of Serbia end up in custody; that no action is being conducted against them and that today, ministers, all of us Serbian citizens, have to pay for this crime committed by Natasa Micic, and the competent judicial authorities have done nothing to make Natasa Micic responsible for all the damage she has done both to those citizens and to the state of Serbia. Citizens had damage back then, probably many will never clear their name and suspicion from their family, and the state has consequences now, because, we all know and you all know, whoever appears before the court with a claim for damages, the state will have to (already pay off and damages) to pay that damage. Since you have already passed this law, although comments have been made that this law may not be passed, because some parliamentary groups have declared not to accept these unconstitutional solutions. But if you still adopt this law and after you have passed it, I would like to hear an explanation – will this law make it possible for an organized criminal group of a man who steals 7,000 euros a day from Serbian citizens, who out of those couples to pay for the copying of chefs, his daughter and nephews to record a CD. So there are four, not three, that is an organized criminal group, plus others, plus a brother, plus Covic, plus Tadic, there are as many of them as you want. Will you, when you have passed such a law, do something good for this Serbia and the Serbian citizens and apply to such an organized group? We don't expect that from your government and this kind of composition at the top of the judiciary, Mr. Minister. But it would be good, and because of you personally and because of the reputation that you enjoy amongst the people's MPs and among the citizens of Serbia, don't embarrass yourself, withdraw this law. I am fully convinced that you agree with us. You let what someone told you you had to, you're a lawyer, you keep your profession.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24430	I thank Mrs. Vereca Radetti. The word is made by National MP Milan Stevović. Here, you have eight minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24431	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, even though I have eight minutes left to discuss this very short bill, I will try to use those eight minutes in the best way. I want to point out to Mr. Minister a very important fact, which is that this law and this bill -- we have no smaller law, no greater torment. There are two members who carry a huge burden and will create huge problems in our judicial system and in our real life. If we talk about detention, we can talk about both theoretically and realistically. It's best if those two concepts match, and in practice those two concepts are quite identical. But it's not like that all the time. One is a theory, and the other is the implementation of that theory in practice. He's in custody, from the point of view of the court, at the same time, and one right, but one big obligation for the court. Also, from the point of view of the accused, or detained, detention is one big obligation, but it is also his right. Basically, it's the right to a certain length of detention. So on one effective and more comprehensive treatment of judicial authorities if someone is in custody. I'd like to remind you of the fact that detention is one of the most sensitive criminal-processing institutes. The detention has so much importance that it is also a constitutional category, so detention, when it comes to legislation, must be paid special attention. The criminal procedure is essentially the gradual movement of forwards and the gradual regulation of rights, obligations and the making of a fair decision, i.e. judgment. However, the theory of criminal law requires that something be done every day, in particular that the actions of the judiciary and the judiciary are examined in respect of detention cases. But unfortunately, I have to realize that it's not always like that and there's a lack of urgency when it comes to such objects. Otherwise, the view is that the material criminal-processing right should be dynamic, unlike the material law which, in some ways, is one static category, a very difficult variable category, which in some ways changes only when certain conditions mature. In every modern legal system, one fact is clear, and that is that no matter how stable the state is and no matter how stable the state is, it is as stable and procedural matter. The more stable the state, the less changes to procedural legislation. Unfortunately, we have very frequent changes in procedural law, and we have frequently changed this Code of Criminal Procedure. We even went after that codification, and we called it the Code of Criminal Procedure. This only proves that there is one political, social and every other instability of our country, so this is reflected in this law on criminal proceedings. Today we only change two provisions, but two provisions that have vital importance for the functioning of the judiciary, and for the functioning of the state, and for the seriousness of the state, but also for the defendants. We come to that truth, which was pointed out by the SRS, which is that we do not need specialized courts and that within our regular courts we have enough strength, enough quality to organise all processes and make legal decisions. However, as we did not fight these specialised courts, so today we have to fight specialised judges, specialised prosecutors, special salaries, special spokesmans, etc. So we have to show a general dissension about all of this that I've put forward. What's important is that detention is the most difficult measure that can hit a citizen of the state and that, from a sociological point of view, is perhaps the greatest blow to a human personality. That's where freedom is interrupted, that's where some other principles start to work and there's some other legality going on. These are very difficult moments for every man, even for whoever's a criminal, and who's an organized criminal, and who's done the hard work, but also those acts that are less difficult. When we have all this in mind, we have to mention one very important fact, which is that in determining the detention is always taken, as an important and determined category, the weight of the work, not the way the work is done, that is, it is not prejudicial and it is not essential to talk about organised crime. Therefore, detentions are determined by the weight of the work, not by whether they are carried out in organized fruit. I believe that this bill did not take account of it enough and that there is the possibility and hope for this legislative proposal to be withdrawn from the assembly procedure. If that is not done, I would ask that the amendments to the SRS that we have submitted to these two members be respected. I would still point to a very important destination when it comes to detention. When it comes to detention cases it is always kept in mind and must always bear in mind an unwritten rule, but it is very common, which is that, when it comes to detention cases, it is a matter of a certain kind of specialized relationship, the connection between judges, prosecutors, police and lawyers. There's no lawyer who doesn't want to get a detention case, and when he knocks a detention case on a lawyer's door, it's much nicer than if he knocks on some other ten or twenty lawsuits. For these reasons, to prevent it, we must take care of the length of the detention. And the longer the detention is, the longer we extend this time frame in which the person may be deprived of freedom, we leave a greater possibility, a greater maneuvering space for these specialised types of crimes related to the planting of the above-mentioned institutions. I don't want to look back on this subject any more, but I would stress that it is very important to observe this institute and one practical fact, which is that there is a possibility that, after such a long detention, no judgment can be made against someone. This requires a certain restitution, a certain compensation for damages, which this country can hardly compensate for and correct what has been done in an illegal procedure. Therefore, I would suggest that this law or legal proposal be withdrawn for the time being from the assembly procedure, and if it is not done to adopt the amendments to the SRS, which we have submitted. Otherwise, the legal profession, but also the fundamental right of the accused, would be questioned to spend some time in custody, given the gravity of the actions they have done.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24432	Is anyone else answering for a word by law based on Article 93? Is it the Rules of Procedure or is it someone who hasn't used his right? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. Mr. Minister, did you want to get involved? No one wanted the MPs, but here's the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24433	I promise I'll be brief. Just for some of the things that were said here to say what it was about. To baptize unprofessional, inefficient courts or unskilled ones. A general term of non-solidal courts is used. All of us seem to forget that by 2002 there was a provision that the detention, unlike my fellow Christians, was foreseen by the Constitution, a month, two months and three months, but there is also another part of the sentence – unless the indictment is brought up. If the charges are filed, then there's a review of the detention every two months, so it could certainly be, as Mrs. Radeta says, that it takes forever. You're talking about possible court abuses. If he was going to abuse him, he could have kept him from obsolescence. The problem with these courts is that Europe then said, the Council of Europe, that our courts are not solid, that they give no guarantee that the case can be completed within a reasonable time or that people are in custody. What happened? We had a large number of detentions, and even in municipal courts for those minor acts up to five years, people lay in custody for two or three years, which was amazing. That's why the restriction was introduced. We are now speaking against restrictions, and it will have to exist until that deadline until the courts show that they are able to complete the case within a reasonable period, that people do not lie indefinitely in custody. That's why it was introduced. It's been said here for two years, four years. No, it's organized crime as a particular kind of increased risk of crime, which threatens not only those who judge or prosecute, but also citizens, and are complex and difficult to discover in the final, trial, and later sentence. So, not in two or four years, just for the most difficult cases of these parts, ten years and more. It was also said that the pressure on this was because it was Djindjic's trial, so it wouldn't be said. No, I don't. For what you've shown in the papers, it's actually a separate procedure for other crimes, such as murder, extortion, so in this case it's a kidnapping with a fatal consequence, a man was killed. This would be about getting those faces out of our midst as ordinary citizens. So it's not about the process of killing Prime Minister Djindjic. I've also said a few things here, I've been asked to call the standard, I'm going to say one case that I'm familiar with - the mafia. Giovanni Bruska, head of the Neapolitan chamber, 8.5 years in custody, and the court said, given the specificity of the case, it was considered to have been in standard for such complex cases, with so many perpetrators and weight. I'm just saying what would be good for us if it were just in exceptional cases. What I'm saying is that what they called the Constitution doesn't stand. He says nice, if the law regulates, it's the law and that's how it's regulated. The only thing I want to say in the end is that we have this situation that I've pointed to. I fully agree that there is a need to regulate and be a code of criminal procedure, so it will also include this matter related to this organized crime and war crimes. So we're really going to get a full code, properly regulated this thing, and it's going to be in March. I think this law should be passed, and I'm sure we all know each other well. If the courts don't work well and ineffectively, so they can't end up within some reasonable deadlines, if there's no limit it would be dangerous, so they've been introduced and make sure they're abolished the moment we get capable and efficient courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24434	Please don't come in, I'll take a break before the vote, don't worry. It's not time for a break yet, we still have work to do, so you don't have to go in and out. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Public Prosecutors' Selection and Deputy Prosecutors' Deputy Prosecutors' Office For this item of the agenda, you have received a proposal for a decision on the selection of public prosecutors, number 119-2926/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice and a proposal for a decision on the election of deputy public prosecutors No 119-2927/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time for debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time for discussion is five hours, I realize that it is the time of debate, according to parliamentary groups: SRS – one hour, 36 minutes; DSS – one hour, three seconds, 36 seconds; DS – 43 minutes, 12 seconds; G17 plus – 37 minutes, 12 seconds; SPS – 26 minutes, 24 seconds; New Serbia and Independent MPs 9+9 – 20 minutes, 24 seconds; five MPs for European Serbia – six minutes; MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group for five minutes, per Article 93 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a unique search into the motions for decisions. Does the representative of Proposer Slobodan Jankovic, the Republic Public Prosecutor, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the committee’s rapporteur want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a written word application with the order of MPs, was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. He has the word Zlatan Jovanovic, a National MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24435	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have two proposals for a decision on the selection of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, and in general when these things are on the agenda, when it comes to selecting individuals, individuals, it is a very sensitive issue. So we as MPs must be very careful when we talk about individual people, personalities, when we challenge them here. I have come to the attention of this second decision on the election of deputy public prosecutors, with the intention of contesting a proposal for a candidate for deputy municipal public prosecutor in Uzic, Mr. Srdjan Bozovic. I'll try briefly to explain my proposal to challenge this candidate. First of all, I have to say that the criteria that the High Council of Justice has in selecting candidates are not clear to me, because when I examined this complete proposal for a decision, I see that there are many candidates who have studied seven, eight, even several years. Law studies that lasted four years ended in ten years and some even more than ten years. I've seen the list of candidates that have been reported, and I've seen that there are many better candidates than those who are proposed here. More qualitative in terms of expertise itself, and so I say that these criteria are not clear to me on the basis of which the High Council has been defined for these candidates, but I do not dispute everything, I challenge only one, Mr Bozovic. In fact, from this data we have here, we can see that he graduated from college in his 30s, or at the age of 30, which isn't much of a recommendation. It doesn't necessarily mean he's not an expert, but I think there were a lot more quality candidates than he was in that professional way. I tried to at least try for these candidates from the Užičko district where I come from to collect some data, to see what the opinion of the people working on these candidates is, and from more sources I was given the assurance that Mr Bozovic is a close associate of Ms. Natasa Micic. She's probably a member of the GSS, which should be checked out, but if that's true, that her close associate, her friend, then I doubt the objectivity of his work as deputy district attorney. I simply cannot accept that as such he will be objective and independent in his work as deputy public prosecutor, since we know who Natasa Micic, of whom there have been many words today. It is Mrs. Micic who is the personification of the darkest period of Serbia's newest history. A woman who, unfortunately for Serbia and its citizens, led this country in a period behind us, but who left great consequences for Serbia and its citizens. I ask all MPs to check this through their representatives in Uzic until the vote and to consider whether he has grounds not to vote Mr Bozovic as deputy municipal prosecutor. I say once again it's about sensitive things, personalities, individuals. We make decisions that can affect their lives and, of course, affect them, but it seems to me, because I have received information from multiple sources, there is a basis for this proposal to be challenged. And I especially stress that I am not clear on the criteria of the High Council, because we have more candidates here who have been proposed and who have studied for ten and over years, who, with a few years of working experience, and not in the judiciary, but in some other jobs, go to deputy prosecutors.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24436	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for a word, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93, want to do so. Rules of Procedure? Yes, Hansel Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24437	In short, in order not to take up a lot of time, I want to challenge on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group a proposal for a public prosecutor at the district public prosecutor's office in Capco and I would not waste any more time explaining all this. In the opinion of our people in the area, he does not have enough professional qualifications to carry out such a responsible duty and the functions of a public prosecutor at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Šapec. This is what I came out to say because soon there will be a vote, due to the voting procedure, so that a separate vote can be prepared for this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24438	So, a candidate for public prosecutor at the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Sapco Radenka Angelic was challenged. County? It's important to resolve that we know exactly who's being challenged. Dragoslav Milanovic, a lawyer, the Shabac Attorney's Chamber of Attorneys, is elected to the district attorney general's office in Sapac. So he's challenged. Before I conclude a unique search on the motions for decisions, does the proposing representative, Slobodan Jankovic, want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude a unique search on the proposals for decisions. Having conducted a single search on the motions for decisions, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motions for decisions, on the contested proposals in accordance with Article 179(4). Rules of Procedure, and then on all other undeniable proposals in general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have adopted a proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by MP Miloljub Albianic, president of the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time for debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Does anyone want to talk about this? No, I don't. ) Does the representative propose a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, according to Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, this Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, no one filed an application Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for a word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Does Mr. Albianic want a word again? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – I would like to inform you that I am, in accordance with Article 16. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, received one proposal from the National Assembly’s vice president. You have been presented with a proposal for a vice president of the National Assembly. As you have seen, National Assembly Vice-President Radojko Obradovic, member of the DSS, was proposed at the beginning of the term of office. As referred to in Article 17(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the rapporteur of the motion, have the right to explain the proposal, ask the rapporteur, MP Milos Aligrudic, president of the DSS parliamentary group, would he like to explain the proposal for vice president, for Mr Radojko Obradovic? No, I don't. If he doesn't want to, let me explain. Mr. Radojko Obradovic is the deputy chairman of the Finance Committee, I think he worked well as vice-president of the Finance Committee, because he chaired, as Mr. Bogdanovic does not attend the Committee and Assembly meetings, so he has shown that he can do this job. I hope you accept my argument and that Mr Aligrudić does not object to it. I'd like to remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, I hope no one is answering for a word. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Since no one is answering for a word, pursuant to Article 17(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search and I think I can conclude that search, right? I hereby conclude the search, pursuant to Article 17(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure, I would like to set out a list of candidates for the Vice-President of the National Assembly, where there is only one candidate: 1. Radojko Obradovic. The National Assembly will hold the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in voting day. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have adopted a proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Not to say how many people there are, since I hope there won't be a debate on this issue either, please, MP groups who haven't, and they want to, report it? No one wants to. ) pursuant to Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does Mrs. Radeta want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we have not received a single application for a word. Since there are no statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, they do not want presidents or representatives of parliamentary clubs and someone who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure. I am concluding a unique search on the motion for a decision. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. We're moving on to a search in detail. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE CRIME PROCEDURE You have received amendments submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Cvetković, as well as written notices to which these amendments have been withdrawn from the procedure, so we have no amendments. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee, which contains a legal and technical editorial of the text of the draft law implemented by the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the bill in particular, but there are no amendments. Having withdrawn all the amendments submitted by the MPs to the proposal for this law, before I conclude the review of the draft law in particular, does the representative of Proposer Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice, want the final word? I don't think so. He just gave it away. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have carried out a review of the draft law in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, the legal and technical order carried out by the Legislative Committee and the draft law in general. Since we have completed the debate on all points of the agenda, pursuant to Article 85(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint 22 December, Thursday, 2005, at 17.37 p.m., and it may be 17.38 p.m., as a day for voting. So, a minute's break while you're all settled in.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-22-0.u24439	Please, no ovation for Mr. Angelkovic. Please all MPs, please remain in your seats, just to allow a minute of time for the professional service to prepare, due to these two disputes, precise synopsis for the vote. So just a little patience yet. You've worked most days in the history of the Assembly, you can wait another few minutes. As the technical service prepares item two, we can begin the vote. Please, before the vote, can we determine if there are 126 in the O.R.? I find that the application of the electronic voting system has confirmed that 127 MPs are present in the hall and that we can begin the decision-making process. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE CRIME PROCEDURE Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure in principle. For 104 against 20, one abstention, two of the 127 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, I remind you that, by written means, amendments have been withdrawn by MPs: Zoran Krasic to Article 1. The Radeta Verse to Article 2, and Petar Cvetkovic, withdrew an amendment proposing that Articles 1a and 1b be added after Article 1. Since there have been no other amendments, before we move to a decision on the draft law in general, it is necessary that the National Assembly be made aware of the legal and technical order implemented by the Legislative Committee. I am voting on the legal-technical order implemented by the Legislative Committee. For 120, against three, they did not vote four out of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the legal and technical order carried out by the Legislative Committee. I am putting the draft law on amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure, in general. For 105, against 20, two of 127 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in general. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – The choice of public prosecutors and the deputy public prosecutors Proposal for a Decision 119-2926/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice and the proposal for a decision on the selection of deputy public prosecutors No 119-2927/05, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice. Since the National Assembly has conducted a unique search of the motions for decisions, we move on to a decision. Since the MP has challenged a proposal from the High Council of Justice from the Proposal for a decision on the election of public prosecutors, issue 119-2926/05, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 179(4). The Rules of Procedure, on a proposal to elect each of the contested candidates, decides individually, and on a proposal to elect non-contested candidates to decide in general, by public vote. According to the above, we move on to a decision. I am voting on a proposal from the High Council of Justice to elect Dragoslav Milanovic, whose candidacy has been challenged by MP Ivica Dacic, as a public prosecutor at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Sapac. For 99, against 19, two abstentions, did not vote seven, of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Dragoslav Milanovic as public prosecutor at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Sapac. As the National Assembly has made its statement on the contested proposal set out in the draft decision, we move to a decision on the proposal for a decision, in general. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of public prosecutors No 119-2926/05, without the disputed proposal on which the National Assembly had previously declared itself. For 126, against one, of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect public prosecutors No 119-2926/05, without a disputed proposal on which the National Assembly has previously declared itself. Since the MP challenged a proposal from the High Council of Justice from the Proposal for a Decision on the selection of deputy public prosecutors, No 119-2927/05, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 179(4). The Rules of Procedure, on a proposal for the selection of each of the contested candidates, shall be decided individually and on a proposal for the selection of candidates who are not disputed shall be decided in general by public vote. According to the above, we move to a decision. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Srdjan Bozovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zlatan Jovanovic, as deputy public prosecutor at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Uzic. For 118, it did not vote 9 out of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Srdjan Bozovic as deputy public prosecutor at the Municipality's Public Prosecutor's Office in Uzic. As the National Assembly has made its statement on the contested proposal set out in the draft decision, we move to a decision on a proposal for a decision in general. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of deputy public prosecutors, number 119-2927/05, without a disputed proposal on which the National Assembly has previously declared itself. For 125, against one, he did not vote one out of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect public prosecutors' deputies no. 119-2927/05, without a disputed proposal on which the National Assembly has previously declared itself. Since the National Assembly has declared all the proposals, allow me to congratulate the public prosecutors and the deputy public prosecutors on your behalf and wish me success in my work. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE DECISION OF THE MEETING OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA As the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For 125, they did not vote two out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly adopted the motion for a decision. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – THE CHOICE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA After the National Assembly has carried out a search and since it is in accordance with Article 17(5). Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly has established a list of candidates for the Vice-President of the National Assembly, I remind you, according to Article 18. The Rules of Procedure, before the election of the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, decides whether to vote in secret or in public, by making a public vote known by the MPs to each candidate individually, by raising their hands or by calling. I propose that the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be made by public vote - by raising your hand. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 121, there was no vote of 6, of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is done by public vote - by raising hands. Since the National Assembly has decided that the election of Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly should take place by public vote - by raising your hand, I remind you that, according to Article 123. The Rules of Procedure, if voted by hand, the MPs first state who is in favour of the proposal, then who is against the proposal and ultimately who abstains from voting, and that a candidate has been elected as vice-president of the National Assembly for whom more than half of the MPs present voted. I am voting on the proposal to elect MP Radojko Obradovic as vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Who's up for this proposal? (125) Does anyone object? No, I don't. Is someone holding back? (Yes, MP Radojko Obradovic. ) Since we have held a vote to elect the vice-president of the National Assembly - by raising my hands, I am finalising the vote and announcing the result of the vote. Of the 127 MPs present, 125 MPs voted for candidate Radojko Obradovic. As Radojko Obradovic was voted in favour of the majority of the national MPs present, I find that Radojko Obradovic was elected vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Allow me to congratulate the vice president of the National Assembly on your behalf and to ask him to take office at the chair. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. He did not vote for 126, one of 127 MPs. The National Assembly adopted the motion for a decision. Since we have made clear on the proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia within the third item of the agenda and on a proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia within the fifth item of the agenda, do you agree that the proposals adopted in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" as a legally-technically united act – Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? I'm putting this motion to the vote. He did not vote for 126, one of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the ninth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Just a few more notices, I think it'll be important to you. As you know, another session was scheduled. Proposer representative Mr Branko Pavlovic agreed to withdraw from the agenda the only points that were on the agenda. They will be discussed at an extraordinary session, I suppose, so by a little earlier vote, the ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have completed the autumn session. Let me finally give you some essential and technical information about the work so far and future. As the highest body of government, you MPs voted for by nearly four million citizens, passed 208 laws, which is the highest in the history of parliamentaryism in Serbia. At the same time, it means that you worked most days, that you proposed several thousand amendments and that, which is hidden from the public, the institution that saved the most budget money this year and last year. In doing so, you represented your own political options, because your citizens chose you to fight here in the Assembly for their views and to influence the laws, whether you are power or opposition. This assembly is a folk and therefore your impressive result is the collective political victory of our people, which is why you are the most responsible for all the impressive evaluations of the work of this assembly. But that's why you're a constant target of assault, insult and disputation from those who are essentially opposers of the people, democracy or the European future, you're aware of that, and you will defend yourself by consistently doing your job and passing laws on the National Assembly, I hope. The European future does not have its own identity and self-respect. On the counter where you report your presence, all MPs will now be given a three-colour badge of the National Assembly, because you are a convocation that has unanimously returned its symbols to Serbia. That badge will be given to those MPs who voted, and now for various reasons they are not there. Unfortunately, some are no longer alive, and they voted for these symbols, and they will be given to their families. In January, during the first 15 days, there will be no technical and financial opportunities to maintain parliamentary clubs, but the committees are waiting for a big job, as an extraordinary session will most likely be scheduled for February 6th or 7th. Since 7 January 2006, for personal reasons, as you probably know, I won't be participating in public life for a while. In my absence, I am authorized to be replaced by Vice President Vojislav Mihailovic or a person he determines. Now I invite you all to a cocktail together.
