ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13303	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, Mr Minister, we have before us the draft laws on amendments and additions to the Securities Market Act, the Act on the Action Fund and the Law on Privatisation, which essentially regulate the process of privatisation. It is an area that is essential for the functioning and transformation of the economy and areas through which we will first get close to the desired goal, which is European integration. In addition, the record growth of the social gross product in 2004, apart from the excellent birth year in agriculture, was achieved, above all, by the results of privatisation from the previous period. In the application of these three laws since 2001, certain experience has been gained and the need for changes has emerged, with the basic concept of privatisation remaining unchanged and that is good. It is also good that some of the proposals and initiatives of the Privatisation Committee were accepted, and in his work he faced many concerns and dilemmas. In the case of the Law on the Market of Securities, we have two significant objections. First remark: there is no need to determine the retroactive application of those provisions; in principle, any retroactive application is bad and leads to problems and concerns or creating unequal conditions for all participants in the tender and I think better solutions can be found. The second problem is Article 3 or Article 262a of the Law, where the provisions of this law are said not to apply unless otherwise specified by the act of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is very clear that it is inappropriate for the government of the Republic of Serbia to determine issues that can be regulated by law itself. Amendments to the Act on the Action Fund will in any event lead to better protection of social and state property and active roles of the Action Fund, but will also lead to certain problems that may have far-reaching consequences. These changes provide for the activation of management rights over these transferred actions, enabling the Fund to participate in more than 500 companies, as regards majority ownership in more than 150 enterprises. Thus, the state is entitled to delegate representatives to the governance bodies themselves who become something in these companies. Article 8a says "rightly votes on the basis of the actions referred to in Article 1 of the Action Fund uses especially in the following cases", which means that in all other cases it can. We have an oral promise from the minister that it will not happen, but it should be regulated by law. The adoption of counterpart Palalic's amendments has led to some improvements, but the situation has not been clarified until the end. There is another problem, which is that the state, as a minority owner, can in certain cases block the company's work and, by protecting its interests, question the interests of other capital owners. Of these three laws, the Privatisation Act is the most extensive and significant, but, as the explanation put it, there are no conceptal changes, but only clarifications and development, and all of this was created by practice. The amendments are classified in three categories: solving the problem of implementing restructuring in the privatisation process itself; the commitments of the participants in the tender and auction; thirdly, the addition of existing legal solutions for the termination of the privatisation process, contained and the termination of the contract on the sale of capital, i.e. assets. In addition to a series of positive effects that these changes will have on the privatisation process, the aim is to maximise income and the inflow of new investment by legal entities, i.e. those sold. There are also several issues that the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group will try to amend with amendments. First of all, it is a disputed obligation of state creditors, public undertakings, the Tax Administration, the PIO Fund, the Health Insurance Fund, the Stock Reserve Directorate and the Development Fund to discharge the debt to the entity of privatisation in general and to settle its claims from the funds achieved from the sale of capital or property. It is not disputed that debts are the biggest problem in the sale of enterprises. Also, it is not disputed that these sovereign debts take part with more than 50% in the total debts of the economy, but it is also not disputed that we voted in this assembly on bankruptcy, which took effect on 1 February 2004, in which there is a developed law firm sale institute. I think it's much fairer, and that's basically creating a market that will regulate price and conditions. I also believe that the sale of privatisation entities in which restructuring was carried out should be carried out exclusively through a public tender method. It is large and significant enterprises, with significant capital and a large number of employees, so the method of the public tender is much more appropriate than the auction. Furthermore, if the privatisation entity does not agree with the notified claims of the State trustee, the arbitration panel shall be objected. The arbitration council's composition is determined by the parties, by proposing a state-owned trustee and the other privatisation entity. I think the arbitration council as chairman should delegate a representative of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce as an association of businessmen, not a finance minister, as proposed in Article 20b of the bill. I think a good solution is to introduce a temporary capital agent, because practice has shown that there is a vacuum from the moment the contract is terminated to the moment of the new sale. It is disputed that the temporary representative is appointed by the Privatisation Agency, as a saleser of capital or property, not the Action Fund, which is already doing similar things under the amendments and amendments of the Act on the Action Fund, i.e. has the right to manage legal persons in which the management action has been transferred to him. The paper in the law is also the institution of the concession of the contract on the sale of capital, i.e. assets. This solution has been translated from practice, because we had several proposals on the Privatisation Committee for the settlement of the contract, which is now regulated by law. It is a bit of a strange attitude of Article 3. 41g, where it is said that the debtor guarantees to the Agency that the receiver will fulfil its obligations under the established contract on the sale of capital, i.e. assets. It's a dispute, because if that emancipator could guarantee, he'd probably realize that contract, he wouldn't have to give it up. It is also a disputed solution from Articles 32 and 33 of this law on non-implementation in order to settle the claim, but it is already a legal problem and I would like one of the lawyers to explain to me whether it is in accordance with the Implementing Procedure Act. All in all, the practice translated into acts does not essentially change the concept of privatisation, which is most important, so we expect it to speed up the privatisation process and that it will be completed within the envisaged deadlines. The DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group will vote for this law in case our amendments are accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13304	I thank the People's Messenger Goran Knezevic. The People's MP Slavoljub Matic has the word, and let the MP Branislav Stevanović be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Matice.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13305	Ladies and gentlemen, we have three laws before us, which the DSS will vote for, with some remarks that we have already been able to hear from MPs who have highlighted in the previous discussions. My basic objection to these laws is that, I ask the question – why these changes and additions have not been made before. I think it was necessary, in order to speed up the privatisation process itself, to clearly define the rules that will ensure that the observed irregularities are removed as soon as possible. It's a shame we haven't done these alterations and supplements before. I think we could have had these laws on the agenda before New Year's Eve and this assembly would have adopted them. As far as we hear from the representatives of the ruling parties and from representatives of opposition parties, these laws have almost unanimous support, with several amendments to the opposition, by adding that several amendments have already been adopted in all three laws by the Government and Minister Bubal, and I mean amendments by opposition parties. So, almost all the conditions have been met that this assembly has unanimously voted to amend and supplement these three laws, with another remark that we could hear from Professor. Stamenkovica, which is – why is it waiting for the law on restitution or denationalisation and how much is it possible for privatisation in Serbia to be fair unless we have a law on denationalisation that would resolve a legal and property dispute with people who lost their right of property away in 1944 or 1945. It seems to me that the announced law, which we're about to sign up for property seized after World War II, is not a good enough solution. It seems to me that the law we promised, MPs of the ruling majority, not only during the last election campaign for the republican elections, but also in the distant 1990s and especially in 2000, is sufficient to make the law possible as soon as possible, regardless of all the troubles and difficulties that the state of Serbia will face in the application of the law on denationalisation. I claim that privatisation is not possible without a fair law on restitution or denationalisation. What's good about these legal changes that we have ahead of us, that's keeping the concept of privatisation. In fact, if we had defined ourselves as some new concept of privatisation, it seems to me that we would only slow down privatisation. We have had four privatisation models in Serbia since 1990. The first was an Ante Markovic model. It was abolished with a retroactive fact far back in 1993-1994 by the DS amendment, and in the first half of the 1990s, we slowed privatisation in Serbia. Then we had two laws on our own transformation, which led the governments of the SPS, the radicals and the JUL, and these laws were not sufficiently enlivened, with the fact that in that transitional period after October 5th, until the constitution of the new republican authorities, we had an accelerated privatisation process that seemed to have introduced a series of irregularities and impossible situations, even illegal actions that we can hardly correct in the right way today. We have passed the law, it's been in application since June 2001, a law that has been defined as the concept of outsider privatisation. I would remind you that in the spring of 2001, when we passed the Privatisation Act, we discussed the need for Serbia's economy to get fresh capital on the side, that Serbian economy and Serbian workers to this extent were impoverished that it was not possible to apply a privatisation model that would revive production by dividing actions for the employees themselves. So, at that time, I will remind all MPs, by a large majority, almost two-thirds, the Serbian parliament has passed the Privatisation Act, respecting the proposals that Serbia needs outsider law, privatisation that will provide on the favourable sides of a new investment, a fresh capital that will invest in Serbia's economy. Unfortunately, I have to remind this opportunity, and therefore we bring these amendments and additions to the law, that, when we have defined ourselves for such a law, we all had in mind that the executive authority will think about those people who have wrongly reached capital and who will use this privatisation moment to become not only owners of one suspicious capital, but owners of a huge part of real estate, especially those properties and objects owned by social firms that were the subject of privatisation. That's exactly what happened: those who, during the 1990s, and perhaps before that, perhaps after that, quickly and illegally enriched, became the capital owners of the good part. It also happened that their motive was not to launch production, but their motive was to reach central locations in cities, municipalities across Serbia, which after two years in a magical way would sell out, leave people on the street, and they become owners of huge capital. It's a good thing that by changing and supplementing this law, we're trying exactly the kind of buyers, unconscious buyers, to sanction. Of course, we won't be able to sanction everything, but we will still be able, by applying these amendments and by supplementing the law, to sanction one piece, by being a supporter to accept the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party, where those buyers who bought under the old law will also be sanctioned, by the law that we are changing these amendments and supplements, which showed no security in the business of the firm, which in the end, I must also say as a member of the Privatisation Committee, brought to the begging stick precisely because they got such owners as they have today. I'm a supporter of that, I think the minister also approves of this part of my discussion. As far as these three laws are concerned, let me remind you, the law amending and supplementing the Securities Market Act is trying in an important way to speed up the privatisation process. We can freely describe it in one sentence – it sanctions all forms of sales of shares in the securities market of value. The Act on the Action Fund allows the state to acquire management rights in the part of its ownership so far, but could not in any way influence, i.e. that he has management rights. It is good that the minister has promised us, and we have such an amendment, which clearly limits the level of participation in the governance process by state representatives in companies. We hope it won't be misused. Of course that would very well suit the ruling parties at the moment, but you should think about the period when, say, the DSS is not in power. Of course, it'll be who knows when, but we don't want to talk about it this time. Furthermore, the Privatisation Act – to remind ourselves, this is the third phase of privatisation. We must hurry to find the right concept for those bad companies that have remained unprivatised and, of course, find the right concept to ensure the privatisation of that public sector that will go to the social sector after restructuring and be the subject of privatisation in the next period. Since there were also objections from former Minister Vlahovic at the speed of the privatisation process, especially in the first part of 2004, I must say that a large number of quality companies were privatised during his government, but only the slowdown of the privatisation process was imposed by this assembly, especially by the Privatisation Committee, which required both the Privatisation Agency and the restoring ministry to individually take each problematic case of privatisation examination. It slowed privatisation to the good part. Know, in my opinion, not just for me, but for the vast majority of our fellow citizens, it is much better to have a fair privatisation, but a quick privatisation that will cause chaos in our society. I think this slowdown in privatisation was inevitability. In the end, the Agency and the Ministry only listened to the orders of the Committee and the entire parliament, nothing else. This is one of the reasons, with the inability to sell bad companies quickly, and to be honest, until we restructure the public sector we will hardly have enough curient and attractive privatisation entities. Also, what is fundamental to these changes is the conditional write-off or discharge of debts that companies have towards the state. This may be something that looks like bankruptcy, but we have to admit that, with this kind of work of trade courts, it's good to find a real model that will ultimately look like bankruptcy, which is discharge of debts, speed up, to have effective and rapid privatisation, and not just those slow bankruptcys that burden us, on average, until now, it's even been seven years. The average duration of the bankruptcy proceedings in Serbia, I will remind you, until 2004 it was seven and a half years. Also, sanctioning an unconscious buyer – along with this amendment to the radicals, I think we will sanction both those old and these new customers and will be careful when they buy from the state of the company. Downloading a contract from an unconscious buyer is also a key paper. It comes from so far practice. The interim representative of state capital is one of the newspapers that will also speed up the privatisation process and address the state of emergency in companies that are privatised. All in all, to conclude, the DSS votes for these laws with pleasure, while objecting to the need to pass a restitution law as soon as possible in order for this privatisation to be fair. Certainly, along with these amendments that the minister has already accepted and some that we expect to accept, I think we also get fair laws and laws that allow for fast and efficient privatisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13306	I thank Mr. Matic. I hope he doesn't mind me, but for the sake of historical truth, in 1997, the third Privatisation Act was passed, and then the Socialist Party and New Democracy were in power, neither was the JUL nor the SRS. Mr. Stevanović, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13307	Ladies and gentlemen, that transition is a painful process of speaking and privatization, which gets its special dimension from 2001 to today and how much longer we don't even know for ourselves. As for the merger of the first three points, it is that they are related to the same areas, all of which is one topic, however, there is one main goal here, and that is that, first of all, we SRS MPs are deprived of the maximum time, in order to criticise as little as possible privatisation as possible, as it is already called - burazer, godfather, thief etc. The privatisation review, it was your main pre-election parole. From your parole to today, nothing has been done on the audit itself and checked, and unfortunately, we have many scandalous privatisation cases in Serbia. Examples of poor privatisation, I say, unfortunately, there's a lot. I don't have enough time to say at least one smaller part of it, but I'm going to list some five-six extreme cases, which are "Yugomedia", "Hempro", "Gorica", "Auto Transport" - Vrnjaka Banja and many more extreme cases of catastrophic privatisation. There's a lot of writing about privatizing Jugormedia. Namely, all the evidence, everything we've been getting as board members, all the materials show that this is where minority shareholders and states are damaged. However, the judiciary, the Privatisation Agency and all those in that bewitched triangle do as they do, by order, they are all calmed down, calmed down. They simply didn't want to stand up to the powers of our current government. I mean, that's where even the local police went into the protection of Jugormedia workers, because she realized, and the local government knew that these people were damaged, that the state was damaged, too. However, a scandal took place, 21 were injured, Belgrade special forces came and the police had one violent argument among themselves, which really doesn't lead to anything. You can see clearly what kind of privatisation there was. Also, Gorica is one of the disastrous examples – the buyer who bought the company, before he respected any part of the contract, had already estranged, let me say, sold one part of the restaurant, calmed down his money he spent and then started acting so hohstaplely, paying, bribing the Agency and I don't know who everyone in the ministry was, so he remained protected and untapped. Also, "Auto Transport" – Vrnjačka Banja – unfortunately, there are many workers out of work. The privateer who bought this had initially violated all the contractual items he was supposed to honor, fired a good number of workers, a large part of them demoted and chicaned, so he made one big rebellion within the Kingdom municipality itself. I'm saying, there are a lot of such drastic examples, but time doesn't allow me to say anything more extensive about it. This Privatisation Law aims to give only greater authority to the Privatisation Agency, especially when it comes to restructuring and bankruptcy. I quote an EPS example and I mean that the Privatisation Agency can never safely and qualityfully restructure that system. If we have an EPS, we have the Ministry of Energy and they know best what they're going to do and where they're going to deploy that extra worker, how they're going to deploy all these systems, how they're going to do it. This is best known by people who are in the Ministry and people who are longtime experts and acquaintances in the EPS. I don't see the Privatisation Agency doing anything on that plan very well. Also, bankruptcy proceedings, I don't think that's gonna lead to anything, and we're sure to have a lot of problems here. We members of the Privatisation Committee will have a lot of work to do. We also had proposals to become an integral part of this law, however, the Privatisation Agency, the Ministry and the Government had no ear for this, did not respect our proposals. It is their responsibility to continue to run such a course of criminal privatisation, so our proposals have not entered the Privatisation Act. Also, the Agency and the Government often refused to comply with our Privatisation Committee’s decisions, so many times they willingly implemented many measures. I say, our judiciary is corrupt, to say, by the Ministry, as is Minister Vlahovic, who sits here in benches and walks out here and shares advice to the public, and after four years he remembered to submit amendments and to try to amend and supplement the Privatisation Act. The purchase of companies often takes place in the following way: an interested buyer who wants to buy one company enters business arrangements with the company, comes up with a large debt to the same man and then shows up as an interested buyer; because he owes him a large portion of the funds, he allegedly goes after him to pay off the funds through some wars and he gets the retailers free of charge. The dismissal of workers, the disrespect of contracts and other events, it's a very special story and we're faced with it every day in our lives. On the corruption of the Privatisation Agency, the judiciary itself and the Ministry really don't need to spend a lot of words, our public is very well known how they work. Since 1990, we have a large number of, unfortunately, wealthy people, and we know how people can get rich in such a short time – only by robbery and kidnapping, and by no means different. When it comes to the Act on the Action Fund, I must say that it is unacceptable for the Ministry to decide on how to decide and manage actions and that it will certainly not lead to good and will not show certain results. President Boris Tadic's promise was that he would hire 500,000 workers; you work in the opposite direction, he was aware that he could not keep it and you had already fired about 300,000 workers. Unfortunately, as for the promise of Boris Tadic and you as government, you have done nothing until now. And Bogoljub Karic, of course, who works hard on that plan. However, the export to which you can boast is unfortunately the export of Serbian heads and Serbian generals. Fortunately, Dr. Vojislav Seselj did not give you that chance to trade with him, so he went, as a true patriot, himself and surrendered to The Hague. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13308	I thank Mr. Stevanović. The word has the People's MP Milan Nikolic, and let the People's MP Aleksandar Vukic prepare for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13309	Dear Vice-President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen MPs, today's debate on very important bill proposals, a group of economic laws, we define further the fate of the privatisation process, because in time, through practice, many solutions, whether they are good or not, have slowed the privatisation process. I think it is very important that they amend and supplement the Charter Market Law of value allow more channels of sale of capital, the accumulation of that capital and the possibility of obtaining more in the package than the individual offer of actions could have done so far. It is very important that a huge part of the capital found in companies so far has been only the property of the state, and this time, I think rightly, the government is defined in the proposal that it has the right to vote with that part of capital. I think that will make more right strategic decisions, more responsible decisions. It is only important, given the large number of decisions made, that the minister rightly prescribes very precise deadlines and conditions under which this consent of the Action Fund will be given, so that the delay does not leave the real effect of many strategic decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, I think special attention deserves the Privatisation Act. Many of the solutions in this law depend heavily on employment, further production growth and the resolution of many of the accumulated problems that exist in the country's economy. The proposed changes protect interest, above all, social and state capital, but also small shareholders and speed up the privatisation process and it becomes more just. I would like to remind you that the economy of this country in the last ten years has been operating in conditions of what economic practice and economic theory do not recognise: in the conditions of the embargo, interrupted normal technological and commercial flows between the ex-Yugoslav republics, with high costs, reduced employment capacity, because markets have disappeared. Only the most vital part of the economy managed to welcome years after 2000, in conditions when it lost its market, when a good portion of the assets remained in the ex-Yugoslav republics and when it had to look for new sources for the technological reproductive chain. The solutions are required in loans, which are, we will admit, quite high so that the production of consumer goods can cover from the accumulation that is spent through credit. I think it's a very wise decision that by the process of restructuring, the process of write-off and the process of discharge, you're disbursing huge liabilities to the state and creditors, primarily, by economic operators, without the state losing its share of capital and that these economic operators can appear on the market, provide normal business, and from the part that's state to charge for the part that was fired. I think it's primarily about major economic systems and it's very important to preserve huge government capital, fixed assets and jobs, which will then be very difficult to open so quickly. I want to remind you that some companies were privatized, there were words about it just now, according to the 1997 law. It's mostly major economic systems that employ a large number of workers, systems that have survived the same disasters that these systems have, too, that I was just talking about. Companies from which entire cities live, I would say, and some have strategic importance for this country of Serbia, have shared actions with their workers. It's about small shareholders, which are thousands, and I'd say tens of thousands of them have property over these small actions, but those actions didn't go to market. Those actions remained in fictitious possessions, so to speak, in the hands of these small shareholders, and over 40% of the capital is in these companies, and in fact it's owned by the state. I think it is very important for these business entities to see, through certain criteria, which will be built by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and in particular by the Ministry, companies of particular importance and to fall under the category of debt to the level of government capital that exists in these companies, with a chance to collect it. The survival of these companies protects, above all, huge government capital, social capital, preserves employment at the same time and protects entire regions. Knowing how much Minister Bubalo has an understanding of the economy I think he's going to make every effort to look at this problem and try to isolate through very precise criteria such companies that could fall under restructuring processes, he's actually firing the debt that will be charged by selling this part. It's about companies that actually have a very good market opportunity, which, because of all the problems they've had, have fallen into a debt obligation that they can overcome in this way. In this regard, the SPS Group proposed certain amendments to address the problem. I hope we can come to an understanding and deal with this problem through the amendment. At the same time, we agree that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry find certain solutions and that they legally integrate this position, so that we can preserve one huge capital, primarily in the workforce. I would like to stress that for the SPS parliamentary group this amendment is very important and that we will insist on accepting it. Unless this amendment is accepted, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Ministry finds an adequate solution, we will unfortunately not be in a position to vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13310	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13311	Thank you, Mr. Angelkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I must first note that a year ago we submitted a bill on amendments to the Privatisation Act. I remember then commenting with some MPs on the content of this bill, but the bill never came to the agenda in this assembly. Why, we should ask the President of the Assembly and the ruling majority, who never found it appropriate to explain or explain why they don't think such a thing should appear on the agenda, so let them vote against. It's their right, of course. But, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the Constitution, the proposal had to be considered. What to do, it is obvious that some democracies are perceived as the principle by which they can do what they want and how they will, unbound by legal regulations, are not bound by anything that is meant by the right of the minority in the National Assembly. At the same time, it is interesting that the motion to vote for non-trust to certain ministers is not on the agenda, although, in the letter of the Rules of Procedure, it would have to be put on the agenda within 15 days, but it would say - well, we have taken off. Well, you can't take it off. You can vote against it, but you can't take it off the agenda. That kind of passion I don't understand, which is why it appears in the MPs of the majority, because, together with those who support you, you who rule don't have more than 15% of voters. I don't know where you get that kind of courage, but I guess the citizens of Serbia will be able to assess it in the best possible way. As far as the law package itself is concerned, so the Charter of Values Act, in particular the Privatisation Act and the Action Fund, Serbian radicals have submitted the largest number of amendments. We have the highest number of complaints. We would like you to have looked at our proposal for a law on amendments to the Privatisation Act and to have observed some of these objections, that some of the possible ways of abuse or ways of acquiring which are subject to corruption should be prevented in the future. Unfortunately, the government did not have enough hearing for the opposition's proposals and did not want to hear and hear them. At the same time, we in the Serbian Radical Party have always been advocates of the privatisation process. We believe that privatisation is one of those processes that represents the essence of economic progress, the essence of our country's economic recovery, our businesses and something without which we cannot possibly move forward. However, what we insist on and what we have asked to avoid at all times is the possibility of abuse and corruption at every level, the possibility of thievery or bursar privatisation, whose testimony we have witnessed in many cases to date. What's this about? None of us will say that social or state property is better than private property, on the contrary, even when privatisation is carried out in such a way sometimes it is better to keep factories, businesses, companies, capital or property in the hands of the state or so on. social property. But what has to be prevented is that privatisation is an immeasurable and inexhaustible source of corruption, and it makes me think that neither these laws, nor what has happened so far in practice, have done so. In fact, we have only recently established a significant financial market. The stock market just started working. Unfortunately, this law provides that state bonds issued by the Republic may be on the market and off the market. For what? Who needs that? Why is that necessary? Yes, it's about bonds issued by the Republic, Mr. Minister. We have just set up some kind of financial market that should not continue to be undermined by such measures, especially by legal regulations. Next, you're prescribing new crimes in these special laws. For what? Several times, SRS MPs from this pay phone spoke and warned the ruling majority not to go to the dispersion of criminal acts, but to our primary goal and task is the codification of criminal acts. We have so much secondary criminal legislation that we don't know what to do with it. You today, when you open the KZ Serbia, when you open all the regulations of the SRJ, that is, today Serbia-Montenegro, when you open the laws of criminal proceedings, you have no idea that you are responsible under some fifth or tenth law, because there are 20 laws that prescribe a crime. There are 20 other laws that prescribe crimes, in different ways. And instead of reducing it, you increase that number and you say, I don't know, a responsible person from a company will be punished by prison and so on, etc. Well, that's prescribed by criminal law, not by privatisation laws, securities of value or the Action Fund. Furthermore, very broad powers are given to the minister and the government of the Republic of Serbia. Well, we want these things to be prescribed by law, that this is legal matter, not given at will by the Minister. Thus, one member of the law says that the way the vote is exercised is prescribed by the minister, as well as the cost of the commission, etc. What's this about? What do we want to have? The all-powerful minister? This isn't about ad personam at all, and I don't want to talk about Mr. Bubal, I want to speak in principle, I want to talk about what is a danger to every minister, not just to Mr. Bubal, but to those who will come after him. What will be so broad of authority to one of the executives, one of the men at the head of the administration's authority? What's this all about? Why didn't we prescribe it by law? It's said to be the minister's administrative act. For what? Some are, and some are not an administrative act, that... (Comment from the O.R.)... Worse. Furthermore, we have an irregular position, given the way in which action is acquired. It is said that the government is closer to prescribing the procedure and the way in which it sells paper of value. Well, we want that "closer" regulated by law, to have legal form. Why sublegal regulations? As you go on such changes and additions and so wide, on three levels as you have explained, why you did not do something like this and suggest to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the People's MPs in the Serbian Parliament. Therefore, the SRS is against the possibility that the debtor of the privatisation entity may be a buyer of capital or property. This can really lead us into incredible situations, almost impossible, and something that is inexplicable to the general public and something that is beyond every logic and common sense. At the same time, I have to point out what kind of problems we've had in the public auction process. So I'm going to say that it's very important that we always have a public tender in the restructuring process, not a public auction. I'll tell you about it, it's been applied several times. In fact, at a public auction when they don't agree and they don't give each other those 100,000 euros to give up the game, and you already know about the deal... So, let's go to auction, buy that company, and if I'm able to go up to three million euros, here's 100,000 to you, don't go so I can buy it cheaper. If you don't accept it, you're obliged to give me 100,000 and that's how the public auction participants agree. We can't stop it, it's something that's out of process. It is that the state is damaged, but it is hardly possible to think of the best way to prevent it. There is something else that is more devastating and much more dangerous at the public auction itself: namely, not only was the price not the only or absolutely the most important element of the contract that was later concluded. What's this about? False investments, alleged investments that were made in appearance were taken as extremely important, sometimes as an important part of such contracts that were subsequently concluded, as was the sale price itself. What's this about? Anyone who becomes the owner doesn't think about it, or he can say, "I won't invest anything." You have an example of Traveller and this Ilic. I became the owner and I don't care, I don't want to invest any more, even though I wrote there, I signed that investments will be five, ten, 15 or 20 million euros. It's the same case with these hairdressing shops. You saw that the man opened the pubs, even though he said that all the hairdressers, all those helpers, would still work as hairdressers. What's this about? He became the owner, he doesn't care, no one can hurt him. Let me get back to that trick. It's a very serious trick and check with the privatisations carried out by the public auction as it worked. Namely, my opponent at the auction (conditionally speaking, opponent) can go up to a million and a half dinars or euros, anyway. I can go up to two, and I don't think I'm going to pay anywhere near it, but if the package is 100 percent action I'm going to pay a million and one, and of course it stretches like your own, you know that expression that everyone says you own it so much and so much, so much and so much I have to pay. When I pay a million and a dollar I own 50% plus one, and I'm gonna pay this, maybe I won't pay and I'll never pay. There are many such examples, and I will tell you which of the counselors, the key ones, if you ask me, participate in this and how, in what way, he advised to trade in this way, if you want to participate in a public auction. It's not a naive, harmless thing at all, and that thing isn't stopped. Furthermore, we are asking that a legal person with a majority share of state capital can no longer participate in privatisation. Now I'm going to tell you that we're even correcting our opinions. In time, we wanted to show in that system, if you remember, that we had to go into the privatisation process in the sports, cultural and business center "Pinky", we went into it and did it; everything was supposed to be perfect according to the law, but it was a problem that the buyer of the majority package stock was a company with majority state capital. Then we realized that it was better, because in such a way some fresh money arrived, a partial recapitalisation was made, etc., than the situation then, but much worse than private capital because it continued with a relatively equal relationship or a lack of care by the owner of that sports, cultural and business centre according to its assets, according to its capital, as was the case before. That's what we're trying to stop our proposed amendments. And finally, in order not to take up time for the other SRS MPs, I just want to say, since I see that this has set out for you to pass various laws, quite unconstitutional and to announce the adoption of laws that you will freeze someone's property, I, Mr. Bubalo, as a serious man, warn you not to do such a thing (announced by Minister Stojkovic), because it is the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because private property is intact. Don't play with it, there is no recommendation that can be more important than the Constitution of Serbia, because after that no one's property will be intact. On the other hand, everyone in the National Assembly, and especially the Government of the Republic of Serbia, needs to pay a little more attention to how Serbian citizens live, because of these stories about Spanish villages, how we're going to live a hundred times better, how much easier it's going to be for us a million times, just to get another regulation adopted, just to get us a feasibility study, we're going to have to put a light on Brank's bridge a little bit more, given how many potential suicides there are, people who can't feed their children, people who don't see the future, for themselves, or for their children. So I ask you to take care of this, to take care of the standard of living of citizens and to ensure, in accordance with your election promises, that citizens live incomparably better, that they have existence and that they live with the lives of decent people, however demagogue someone sounds. Because from all the stories that we're going to be in Europe now, then Antarctica, and then the Arctic people are left with no bread, barely a rag ending with the end, and people are just looking to live like everyone else, most normal, in the world and have the same chance for themselves and their children.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13312	The People's MP, Susana Grubjesic, has the word, and let the MP Alexander Djordjevic be prepared. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the session of the Transport and Connection Committee will be held at 1400 hours in the third floor hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13313	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, Mr. Minister, in my presentation, I will refer to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatisation. This is a new attempt to speed up privatisation and increase part of the private sector in the creation of a social product, which today accounts for barely 40%, making Serbia the last place among countries in transition. In late 1989, the government of Ante Markovic passed the first Privatisation Act, and the following year, based on the application of the law, Serbia presided over the number of privatised enterprises and was one of the champions of the transition. Four years later, privatisation was virtually annulled and stopped, explaining that shares were acquired at a bazaar price in conditions of hyperinflation. Thus, the percentage of transformed social capital at the time of the 1997 Law on its own transformation, when the resolution minister was Milan Beko, was only about 4%. One of the government's first measures, which was formed in January 2001, was the suspension of autonomous transformation. About 350 companies, nearly half of those transformed by the model, entered the privatisation process for the few months. The first reason was the real course of the dinar that was then established, and the second precise assessment of the director that it was their last chance of survival, because the change of model was already certain. The new privatisation model introduced by the law adopted in June 2001 made privatisation mandatory and armed. Since he had extensive international professional and donor support and was voted by a two-thirds majority in this House, a quick and efficient privatisation has been announced. In three and a half years of implementation of this model, a total of 1,145 companies were privatised, out of which in tenderes 39, despite announcements that the number would be more than 150. Although the number of companies in auctions reached 1,100, in about 10% of cases, means 106 companies, there was an end of the contract, of which only 20 were rightful. According to the Privatisation Agency, which I am calling on here, 25 contracts were terminated due to non-contracted investments, 45 due to non-payment of remaining wars, and 35 due to a change in business. In 2004 alone, some 5,000 memos arrived to the Agency, requiring complaints. Among other things, because of this number of complaints and complaints, as well as cases that have been filling newspaper columns, let me only list some: "Yugormedia", "Keramika" - Kanjiža, "Veterinary Institute", etc., today the Privatisation Act is being completed. One of the priorities is planned for 2005 to be the restructuring of large enterprises, including public ones. More than 50 of these companies, i.e. certain parts of them, are in preparation for auctioning or tendering, and 43 are still in the restructuring process. The process will likely end in the mandate of some next government, even if the current one does its full mandate by 2008. There are about 1,000 social enterprises left to privatise, but it will be a great success if half of them find a new owner in due time. The previous 2004 was weak for three basic reasons: firstly, because of the announcement that a review would be carried out, secondly, the new director of the Privatisation Agency, and since August, all the forces have focused on controlling the privatisation and catching thieves, so several valuable months have been lost, and thirdly, most likely most importantly, most of the companies that had market value have already been sold. Only 260 companies were sold at auctions, in tenders of eight, but the truth is, 14 out of the 15 tenders for the year 2004 are scheduled for auctions in the last quarter of 2004. The biggest jobs were done in the preparation of the restructuring company, although these results are still not seen enough, as this process was only accelerated in the second half of 2004. The action fund almost sold nothing in the first six months of last year, officially, was blamed for the bad laws that were to be changed and was a general hack for the previous privatisation. Most of the time, since the beginning of autumn, when work finally started, only 60 minority packages have been sold, as time has been spent on the stories of flaws and disagreements in existing laws, above all in this privatisation and the Charter of Values Act, in which there is often a reason for the full suspension of the sale of minority packages from the Action Fund under the conditions of application of the takeover provisions. Finally, we have before us the draft laws amending and supplementing the Charter Market Act of Values, the Law on Privatisation and the Act on the Action Fund, and the draft law on takeover, which is to be found on the agenda of the Assembly's session. According to the proposal to amend and supplement the Privatisation Act, which the government adopted as early as December and referred to the assembly procedure, which we are discussing here today, is large and essential changes, but within the framework of the existing concept model and the privatisation method. The existing text of the law has been significantly changed and changes could be sorted into four categories. First, these are changes which are essential in character and which are prescribed in case of termination of a contract on the sale of capital and property of privatised enterprises. The amendments have been proposed because no procedures have been specified so far in cases of termination of the contract due to non-compliance with the terms of the contract by the company's purchasers, leading to further loss of time, and thus to the devaluement of the capital of legal entities whose privatisation process has been annulled. These changes regulate the management processes in the company in the event of termination of the contract, the recovery process of actions transferred to employees without compensation, and the institution of contract concessions is introduced. Secondly, these are changes relating to the status of the buyer, the rights and obligations of participants in a public tender, i.e. public auction, third party rights and obligations, compensation and other damages. These issues have so far been resolved by sublaws, and now, by putting into the legal framework, they are being further strengthened, increasing the legal certainty of the whole process. Thirdly, the amendments complement and build up existing legal solutions in the part relating to the termination of the privatisation process, including the termination of the contract on the sale of capital and the transport of shares broadcast in the privatisation process itself. Fourthly, the law introduces new legal institutes and is a representative of capital and a concession of the sales contract. With regard to the liability of participants and customers, damages are also foreseen. If a participant in a public auction declared to be a buyer or who points out the second highest bid does not sign the minutes or does not pay within the intended time limit, he loses the customer's property and the right to participate in future auctions for the company, as well as the right to recover the deposit. The ban also applies to members of his family. In addition, it pays, on behalf of the damage incurred for the privatisation entity and for the Agency, a cash amount of 30% of the sale price on the Agency's account, of which 15% belongs to the privatisation entity. Article 41 has been substantially amended. The law — a contract on the sale of capital shall be deemed to be terminated if, in the subsequent period left for the performance of the contract, the buyer does not pay the sale price, or any of the wars reached; if he does not invest in the privatisation entity in the manner established by the contract; if he has the property of the privatization entity against the provisions of the contract; if he does not provide continuity in the performance of the registered activity for which the privatisation entity was established; if he does not provide the guarantee for investment investment in the manner set out in the contract; if he does not respect the provisions on how to resolve the question of employees, and in other cases provided for by the contract. By terminating the contract, employees of the privatisation entity retain equity rights, and the capital that was the subject of the sale is transferred to the Action Fund. The buyer, as an unconscious party, does not have the right to recover the amount paid on behalf of the sale price and to protect the general interest. The restructuring in the privatisation process is defined as a significant change in the company, including its subsidiaries, and these changes allow the sale of its capital or assets, and these are: status and organisational changes; write-off of the principal debt, interest or other claims; discharge of debt in whole or in part for the settlement of creditors from the funds achieved from the sale of capital and assets of that undertaking, as well as other changes provided for by law. It is said explicitly that the future restructuring decision will be made by the Privatisation Agency. The new provisions impose an obligation on public undertakings, the Tax Administration and other republican authorities and organisations, i.e. State creditors are firing long companies in restructuring, with their income coming from the sale of capital. About 75% of these debts are debts to the state. If the privatisation entity does not agree with the level of the notified request of the State trustee, it may object to the arbitration panel within eight days of the date of submission of the application. The privatisation entity is obliged to deliver the restructuring programme to the Agency within 90 days of the date on which the Agency approves a comprehensive analysis of the business of the privatisation entity, and this time-limit may extend the maximum period of 90 days, at the request of the privatisation entity or the trustee, if there are justified reasons. The problems so far and poor experience have probably conditioned a provision that provides that the Agency can determine the suspension of the proceedings pending while there are reasons for the interruption, and for a maximum period of 90 days from the date on which the suspension decision is taken, with the deadlines set earlier. The introduction of two new legal institutes is also the result of major problems in businesses following the termination of the contract. On the day of the termination of the contract on the sale of capital or property, the Agency shall appoint a temporary agent of capital, who shall have the right to the grant of work and the compensation of actual costs, but shall directly correspond to his personal property for damage to the privatised entity, if any damage has occurred intentionally or indirectly. The cost of the award and compensation of deputies is borne by the privatisation entity, at the level specified by the minister in charge of privatisation operations. The settlement of the contract on the sale of capital, i.e. the property, is also a newspaper in this law. The purchaser of capital may grant a contract on the sale of capital, i.e. to a third party, under the conditions prescribed by this law and the law governing bond relations, under the prior consent of the Agency. This third party shall meet the prescribed conditions for the buyer of capital or property. By way of derogation from the contract on the sale of capital, i.e. assets, it becomes the holder of all rights and obligations under the sale contract. The proposal's intention is obvious. All these changes should contribute to the acceleration of privatisation. It is clear that the government of the Republic of Serbia faced the problem of selling social enterprises that remained after two previous waves of privatisation when the best companies were sold. The over-indebtedness of these companies is certainly one of the main reasons for their inattractiveness for potential customers, and there is also technological backlog and huge losses. Finally, I hope that the government, and then you MPs, will deal seriously with the problem of denationalisation, which has already been discussed by my fellow MPs, because this problem prevents privatisation from ending. The first step in this direction has already been taken, on the agenda of this session of the National Assembly is the Proposal for a Law on the Registration and Recording of Deprived Assets, and it is logical to find a proposal for a law on denationalisation in the assembly procedure afterwards. The G17 Plus Parliamentary Group will support the proposed changes and additions of these three laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13314	Thank you. The People's Messenger Aleksandar Djordjevic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13315	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, dear citizens of Serbia, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatisation is another one in a series of legislative proposals that will not bring any significant, fundamental change in the economic life of the Republic of Serbia. In this proposal, the Government of the Republic of Serbia tried to present the public, and in this National Assembly, the minister said that huge qualitative changes in the privatisation process allow for this proposal to amend and supplement the Privatisation Act. However, these changes to the existing Privatisation Act, which has been passed by the former DS government, represent only quantitative changes and are only quantitative. Most changes relate to normative technical changes which are operationally precise to the work of the Privatisation Agency. The only fundamental change in the Privatisation Act is the introduction of a temporary capital representative if a sale of the capital of a privatisation entity occurs. The SRS parliamentary group submitted a proposal for a privatisation law more than a year ago. The aim of our bill was far more operational, primarily in the interest of protecting citizens of the Republic of Serbia and workers from the brutal robbery of financial powers. Our bill did not enter the agenda of the Republika Srpska Assembly. The applicable law has a series of inaccuracies. It was delivered in July 2001. Such Privatisation Act was adopted by the majority of this assembly, headed by the Democratic Party, and allowed the conversion of social property into private property to be done in such a way that a number of people close to DS regimes and then DOS purchased cements, combined, sugars and most profitable social enterprises for reasons. Privatisation participants did not behave very well, they acted exactly as I have just said – they turned Serbian citizens into black. Like I said, the most profitable companies have sold out their budget. In the past assembly of opposition colleagues, i.e. The SRS parliamentary groups pointed to the essence of the then implementation of the Privatisation Act, which was implemented by the Democratic Party. The result of such privatisation is that several hundred thousand workers in Serbia are out of work. Billions have come into the hands of people close to the regime of the then DS government. The government, the ruling coalition, has presented the draft law amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act to the public as something that will bring qualitative changes to the current law. This legal project has 37 members. Namely, the minister did not present an analysis of the privatisation carried out by the government of the Republic of Serbia; the analysis was not done, it was not presented to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Why is there no data presented in this National Assembly, how successful was privatisation, how unsuccessful? The quality of privatisation is measured, above all, on how many new jobs have been opened during the past term of the former government. As a result, the DS and DOS authorities lost their power in the 2003 elections in December. Serbian citizens made it clear what they thought about the government, and precisely in this law and the Labour Law they gave their opinion in the 2003 elections in December. Minister Bubalo said in his statement that these changes speed up the privatisation process. That's what all MPs of the ruling coalition say. That's true. We end privatisation, and no financial market is built. This is about the nature of the amendment to the Privatization Act. The Democratic Party started the privatisation process and turned the citizens of the Republic of Serbia into black. This proposal allows you to continue such a way of implementing privatisation. In previous elections, citizens of the Republic of Serbia made clear what they thought about how the previous Democratic Party government did. All in the elections promised to reduce these malfeasances and corruptions in this country, you promised fair privatisation and revision of those social enterprises not implemented under the law. None of this has happened in the past year. So, further reforms are being carried out. For this reason, the Serbian Radical Party has submitted ten amendments, to bring the bill in line with the government's proposal to the National Assembly. We'll see how you behave, will you vote in favour of the amendments we have submitted as an SRS parliamentary group. The vote against will mean a vote against the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13316	Thank you. The word of the Messenger of the people is Zoran Nikolic, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Momcilo Duvnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13317	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, is true that the DSS promised in the election campaign to review privatisation, but on the other hand, the DSS did not say in any word in the pre-election campaign that it was against privatisation. On the contrary, we will try to speed up the privatisation process and make those mistakes, shortcomings in the law, but also in the activities of the institutions that have implemented the Privatisation Act notice and do everything we can to correct them, make the law more effective and that in this third phase of privatisation, when the most serious problems are actually opened, this privatisation is fair, that it includes the protection of workers' rights, that their position is best regulated and that we succeed in this privatisation itself, first of all with these amendments and additions to the Law, but also with the overall economic environment to bring quality foreign investment. That's what the priority is and this is what this government is doing, and that's what the DSS supports. I hope we have a chance to prove it in practice in this period ahead of us. I will not be very detailed about these laws, it is a set of three laws, the Law on Privatisation, the Act on the Action Fund and the Law on the Market of Securities of Values, for the simple reason that the debate here will open and when you talk about amendments submitted by many parliamentary groups. What's characteristic here, and from what I'd like to start with, I said something about it at the very beginning, are the goals that we want to achieve with these amendments to the law. Simply, to create an attractive political environment, or an economic environment in which we will re-launch a cycle of investment in our economy, especially foreign quality investments. It is generally known that in 2001 the Privatisation Act was passed, which was then announced as a law that would change our economic structure and it was actually doing so. Basically, we don't change the concept of that law, but those shortcomings we've seen we're trying, and I think they're doing it the right way, these changes and the additions that we're trying to change. So among the significant points of amending this law is so-called. the temporary agent of capital, in the event of the termination of the contract. It's simply that in this interspace, when it starts to break off the contract, a lot of strange things happen: alienation of capital, alienation of property, all at the expense of employees. With one asset agent, who will be proposed by the Agency, or state, such an option is now being prevented. We came up with this way of fighting the abuse of the law. If anyone has a better suggestion, let them bring it out here. I doubt it. In what I have heard in the debates so far and what those who are not ready to support this law have not heard a better proposal. In order to make this privatisation more efficient, a new institute is being introduced, which is the settlement of the sales contract. Therefore, the possibility to remain in force is opened, by granting a contract to someone who wants to give up a particular enterprise, i.e. a privatisation entity. We are also introducing one item to make the position of employees in the company one of the essential elements of the privatisation contract. As regards the Act on the Action Fund and the Law on the Market in Securities, the fact is known, firstly, when the Act on the Action Fund was adopted (i.e. July 2001) and later, when the Law on the Market of Securities of Values was passed, in fact, those two laws were mutually opposite, leading to the blockage of trade in shares from the portfolio of the Action Fund. It has thus reduced the inflow into the budget, with all the consequences it has. The intention of amending and supplementing these laws is to unblock such a emerging situation and to return an active role to the Action Fund on the market. All in all, to repeat, these amendments and additions to the Law, on the one hand, correct the application of this law, in terms of justice and justice, which the citizens expected from the very adoption of the Privatisation Act. We admit it, the abuse was, no one can deny it. The effects, primarily by the employees of companies that are privatised, are not what most citizens are, especially those who have been employed in companies that have been privatised, expected. So that's where we fix it. All other changes and additions are in the function of ending the privatisation process in the most qualitative way possible, creating a market economy, an economic environment that is compatible with our environment or with those economies that we seek. Therefore, once again, the DSS will vote for these amendments and amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13318	The People's Messenger, Momcilo Duvnjak, has the word, and the Messenger of the people, Milorad Vucelic, shall be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13319	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to talk about amending the Privatisation Act. Before we begin to discuss amendments to the Privatisation Act, we must speak openly about the results so far, the failures, the evil deeds and the robberies that have been brought to us by the existing, valid law, which we are allegedly changing today. Most of the parties in parliament and you who are in power in the election campaign for this parliament advocated a review of the dossow privatisation. We radicals expected that all actors of this robbery privatisation would be brought to justice. You who are now in power are silently continuing with the same method as your five-eyed comrades. You have deceived voters since October 5th with your crisis headquarters by companies. Under this law, companies are slowly legalized. They're mostly bought by your minimum-price maids, investing in dirty money, for which no one knows its origins. Most of them are people close to the authorities, who were most often in the Zemun, Surcinian, and similar clan. They destroyed this country and burned our congregation with you on October 5th. The judges you've set up daily legalize theirs, and probably yours, dirty money. Based on what you've said, and from the proposal to amend the law you've done, I'm saying from this pay phone that you, that is, this authority, have no intention of reviewing earlier privatisation. You've been harshly critical of the Agency. This proposal gives them even greater authority. Where is your law on the responsibility of the Government and the Ministry, the courts, the MUP, the Agency and the individuals carrying out the privatisation? I'm asking openly, how are we going to punish someone under this law if they fail by carrying out the privatisation? This proposal is another scam in sequence. Were we able to bring someone to justice for poor privatisation under the existing law? We didn't, and now we won't be able to. It is clear that you, like your predecessors, want to rule without any responsibility. Now I'm going to tell you the truth that every worker in Serbia knows and feels. First you deceived the workers by claiming that social property was nobody's, and then by law you took possession of it and then joined the sale. You took your laws from the factory workers and eliminated them from the sale process. You sell factories by convincing workers that it's in their interest. Have you ever wondered who made these factories and how many give up profits to create the same? Because of all this and today, there is sadness, misery and dissatisfaction on the faces of workers and their families. It's a very small number of people who are satisfied. Slowly but surely from the workers, you make the tenants, and most often the servants, into their factories until yesterday. If all I said were true, I'd make an example of your privatisation in Kruševec and the surrounding area. I have to do this, because all you care about is taking 95% of the company's sales to the government and giving the remaining 5% to local self-government. The chemical industry "Merim" in Krusevec, until three years ago was one of the best in Serbia, with 1200 workers, with a salary three times the average in Serbia, sold to the strategic partner "Henkel". It was made by a contract, and no one asked the workers if they wanted to. In "Merima" now employs about 650 workers, personal income is at the average level in Serbia, production is stagnating, and profit at the end of the year is zero. The Parish, another chemical giant for the production of fertilizers and chemical products, was sold to a man named Violeta Joseph. She made money at the firm. With several workers from Macedonia, she came to buy a pear giant. After privatization, giants are in ruins, workers are scrambling, and they haven't received any personal income in a year. This data clearly shows that only the boss benefits. It generates exceptional profits, which comes from the country in various ways. The state collects from "Merima" 3-4 times less money on the name of taxes and contributions. Half the workers are on the street, and the other half is scramblingly trying to prove themselves to the boss, getting 3-4 times less wages, I mean the real value compared to the pre-privitation period. Maybe this could explain to us the ones who passed the law. What exactly is this about? Where are the results of his privatisation? I claim, in Kruševec and the environment there is no positive example of privatisation under this law, that is, this model of privatisation. Why do you who are in power now continue to follow this model? In fact, I know you're only interested in the money sold, and the workers aren't interested in you. Why didn't you propose that local self-government be a higher percentage than the previous five percent, because if the money stays in the bar, then both workers and their families will benefit from it. This shows you're the same as your predecessors. Here's what privatisation looks like in Kruševec when you're the one who's taking power. I say, they grabbed because the radicals won power, not you. These days, a famous company called Rubin has been sold to a mysterious buyer called Pecconi, Surcinac said, and said he was arrested in "Sablja". Just like before, no one knows where he made that money. Isn't that the same thing as what we used to criticise? Actually, this is probably your five-octobarial speaker. This privatisation case clearly shows that you don't want to change anything. On the contrary, you continue the same way. In the amendment to the law, nothing changes, and you do not accept responsibility for what you do. If the worker is responsible for the quality and quantity of his work, and the employer is responsible for organising the job, with the aim of having a higher profit, as you think you are doing something without any responsibility. You must in law propose responsibility and punishment for all those who are selling businesses, both collective and individual. As an existing government, you have no assessment of the performance of privatisation. So why don't you tell the truth about this? I wonder where our intellectuals, economists, lawyers, engineers, journalists and other experts are. They have to wake up and raise their voice until it's too late. The workers were robbed, disfigured and abandoned. Report them to the labour market and they don't receive compensation for a year or two, and then they go to the street. It's our duty for the radicals to tell you this. You don't actually have any new concepts for these changes in privatisation. You continue where your predecessors have left off. People need to know this. The agency gets even more power with this proposal, without any responsibility. We radicals will stand in the protection of workers and their families. If you've taken their factories by force and sold them out into devastation, you must expect them to return them, perhaps in the same way that you took them. Mr. Minister, in the end, you know what the situation is in the chemical industry of the parish. Zupe workers are looking for names and names of people from Kruševac, as well as from the former regime, who sold "Zupe" and why "Zupa" had to be sold when it was of strategic importance for Kruševac and all of Serbia. Here's why: The Parish chemical industry celebrates 51 years of existence. It started as a blue stone factory in 1934, and it started as the first in Europe. Could the vineyards be producing grapes if it wasn't for the Parish? Would this part of Europe use drinking water if it wasn't for the Parish, would mines around the world be able to work and extract ore from them if it wasn't for the Parish? The answer is simple – without the chemical industry "Zupa" it couldn't. Why does he have to react urgently, Mr. Minister? The Parish currently has 80 tons of chlorine in three tanks, one spare that serves to flow, 420 tons of sulphuric acid, 240 tons of acid, 80 tons of carbondisulphate or military tear gas. He's under the water and under the water bell, so if this works, he doesn't shut down, he explodes as long as he's got it. In the end, we want to know, if the owner of the Parish has fulfilled the contract and provided guarantees, which is easily and very quickly checked, tell us and let us know that this company can work. Maybe it's something else. Maybe she wasn't supposed to buy this company, she was supposed to be bought by someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13320	First one notice: I will set a break at 14.20, given that the congregation has started working later today. The People's Messenger, Bojidar Koprivica, has the word, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Milka Silai.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13321	Dear People's MPs, on the macroeconomic plan, privatisation should lead to growth in production, standards, employment, and in fact, under your authority, or under DOS, and even now, it has turned into its opposite. The Kumovska and the thieving privatisation led to the robbery, i.e. the withdrawals of assets and capital that have been creating generations of employees for decades. That and your privatisation led to a decline in production, a general decline in living standards, general unemployment. Disrespect of the law and the overall privatisation process is a characteristic of your current government, as well as a huge number of illegalities in the privatisation of individual economic operators, non-compliance with the contract and so on. Instead of the matter in the privatisation process being regulated in a systematic way, to elaborate the process of selling capital by tender and auction, you improvise and adopt the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation, which is, in the opposite, in the end, with many laws and the Constitution, and in particular with the Law on the bankruptcy procedure. The Serbian Radical Party is seeking to privatise and sell capital through a tender and end it only in a process where there would be at least three offers. This would respect the principle of competitive offer. The SRS considers it necessary to oblige the Agency to determine the buyer who offered the highest price, and all other conditions cannot affect such a subject. The SRS further argues that the contract price is paid immediately, thus preventing many machinations and robbery of capital and state. The Serbian Radical Party believes it is necessary to give greater authority to the Privatisation Committee on the control of the privatisation process, give it the authority to issue tasks to inspection authorities to exercise control over privatisation operations and to give these tasks priority and commit inspection bodies. It is necessary to specify in detail the jurisdiction of this Assembly Committee. He has no authority today, and I can responsibly claim it to you as a member of that committee. The SRS considers that it should be possible to use registered auditors' services to control the privatisation process. The Serbian Radical Party also believes that the Privatisation Act should limit the value of assets that could be subject to privatisation, as it would thus fully protect the assets and capital of the company against general interest, so it would adequately protect the assets created by entire generations of employees. The amendments to the Privatisation Act propose many unacceptable solutions. For example, I will specify Article 3 – that a debtor of the privatisation entity appears as a buyer of capital in privatisation. That's unacceptable. It is also unacceptable that the minister in charge of privatisation affairs determines and prescribes the amount of commission costs. So it's so-called. deregulation of relationships, which should not have been done, but must be regulated by law. Article 23 (new Article 41) The proposal also allows the debtor of the privatisation entity to become the owner of the privatisation entity, which is indeed incomprehensible and inadmissible. Amendments to the Privatisation Act, Article 2, shall be given to the Privatisation Agency too much authority, in particular to determine the methods of privatisation. Members of the 3rd and 4th amendments and additions to the Law are against the constitution, since individual participants, therefore, are being brought into an unequal position, even though all citizens are equal under the Constitution of Serbia. The Privatisation Committee of the Serbian Parliament has proposed a series of solutions, but the proposer has not accepted any suggestions and no proposals from the Committee. So, it's a very bad law, whose provisions are anti-constitutional, illegal, and at this point even non-road, so in the opinion of Serbian radicals, it doesn't need to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13322	The messenger of the people is Nikola Milosevic; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13323	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will be limited to saying something only about this law on privatisation, aware, of course, as well as Mr. Minister, that it was necessary to take care of a people's saying that they were not putting cars before the ore, so it was better to first pass a law on so-called. denationalization, then go to this law. But it's not Mr. Secretary's fault. It's the trouble he inherited, and now he has to use one of Nie's paintings to play in shackles, which he didn't put on himself, of course. However, my intention is to draw your attention to something that could be called a legal void, which neither this law nor the proposed additions nor changes can, unfortunately, be filled in. Here, I'm going to illustrate that with one example right now. I am, of course, like all those who are loyal to free worship, so that whoever offers more to someone so-called. It's also the one who's gonna buy what he wants to buy. But I wonder – what if this person does not want to satisfy only some of his business interests in this way, but also wants to satisfy some of his political interests, which is, however, contrary to our national and national interests. Here, here, almost, I suppose it's well known for all of us, the German concert "VAC" has announced that it intends to buy Serbia's most important newspaper "Evening News". The truth is, from that concert came a message that they do not intend to interfere with the editorial policy of "Evening News", but they immediately denied themselves by saying that the editorship of "Evening News", headed by Mr. Vukotic, because of the nationalist editorial policy he is leading, would be against this "VAC" buying out "Evening News". What if it's not a mix-up in "evening News" policy? So, the gentlemen from that German concert haven't even bought Evening News yet, and they're already getting involved in the editorial policy of that list. What, however, will happen if the concert goes hand in hand to buy Serbia's most expansive list? What happened when that same concert was well bought by the oldest Serbian newspaper called "Politics". I want to draw your attention to how then the editorial college of Evening News would have to shape its editorial policy for what we already know based on what we know from the practice of Politics. That policy would go in two tracks. On the main track list, which is well controlled by this German concert, the main columnist of the list, called Ivan Torov (and I thought for a while it was the pseudonym Sonja Biserko, and then, behold, I convinced myself that it wasn't so) not only that it represented the view that The Hague court is some sort of inevitability to which we must obey, which we know very well without it, but wants us to believe that the Hague court is some kind of therapeutic institution in which the entire Serbian people, which, in his opinion, is collectively responsible for the crimes that are committed in his name. Ladies and gentlemen, in this way, the concept of collective responsibility, the concept that belongs to the original communities and the logic of blood revenge is resurrected, and the Serbian people are generally declared collectively responsible for something he cannot, but by definition, be responsible. And, let me remind you -- in no liberal, democratic state of the newer era, there is no concept of collective responsibility. If you let me have an association at a place in one of Solzhenic's books, somewhere in a prison in Stalin's day, when Stalin went to arrest a Stalinist, some white-blooded man who miraculously survived, criticises Stalin, and these arrested Stalinists defend him. And the white boy says, "Well, you Bolsheviks are like the fish that he burns on the oil, and she yells "oh-ho." Ladies and gentlemen, from the main editorial track of "Politics" we are told that we should not only fry ourselves in the oil of The Hague Court, but also yell "Oho-ho." Well, you see, that's what "evening news" would wait for if this German concert achieved its intentions. To the truth, there is another editorial track, of course the secondary track, which, however, is very similar to what Knjaz Milos used in his day. Seeking to step up with Europe, Knjaz Milos decides to appoint a cafe in Kragujevac as a place where his authority can be criticised. In the crowd, that bar was called "lazy room." Well, there's a page called "Looks" that's kind of like this Book of Milosevic's "Lyage." There can be someone who thinks differently from Ivan Thorov. But not everyone. It's about as if Prince Milos were to set up a man who would say, "You can go to the bark shop," and you can't. Well, look, I'll illustrate it to you by my own example. When I was able to read a report from what was happening at the Media Center at the time, when a group of young political hooligans surrounded the table I was sitting at and yelled at me that I was the greatest evil in Serbia - Ustasha, I folded the tabak and directed "Politice" one of the denials. First comes the message from Internal Affairs that it might be possible in the section "Between Us", and then Mr. Ribnikar decides, in the spirit of this German concert and politics that he's leading, that he can't even do it in the "lajanica." And it's in a list where, say, one Ceda Jovanovic gets the whole page, if you remember, for some of her factional deals with Mr Tadic. So, please, just one more example: when Baby Popovic was criticised on the pages of the same "Politicals", he was allowed to respond to these criticisms in the same place. Of course, I don't think I measure myself with such an intellectual and political gromad as Mr Popovic, who I am compared to him, but you will allow, when it comes to human rights, the most fundamental ones, I guess I have some rights, about as many rights as he has. So here's what's waiting for Evening News if this German concert gets its hands on its editorial policies. That wouldn't be so dramatic, ladies and gentlemen, if we weren't already faced with a wave of media entanglement that oversaws our electronic media. Let me illustrate some of these examples. If an alien came to this city, would he think Vojislav Kostunica was the president of this government? No, he would think it was Zoran Zivkovic, who appears several times more frequently in public information. Would you think Vladan Batic is someone who is no longer a minister of justice? No, on the contrary, you would think Mr. Stojkovic would be somewhere in a seal, as some former minister of the camp of his retirement days, because Mr. Batic attended at least ten times more frequently in public information. He who received 0.54 per cent of the Serbian electoral body's votes with his party, therefore his wider family did not vote for him, can allow himself to be represented ten times more frequently in public, of course, in electronic means, which are the most influential, than the current justice minister. So what -- ex, you know, that goes with some minister of the last regime, comes as some noble title, like, say, the TV house is home to Lord's, and whoever's former is a nobleman, who thanks to that noble title has all the advantages he wouldn't normally have. Ladies and gentlemen, the legal gap is in the following: it cannot be in the state and national interest, we who belong to this people and to this government, that media unanimity, which has affected the maltenes of all the means called electronic, spilling over our daily pages. To avoid any misunderstandings, I have no objection to hearing the voice of Sonja Biserko and Ceda Jovanovic and Mr Batic, but not to be the only voice, not to be the voice that echoes the most, because in that case we will find ourselves in the political paradoxical situation of the first order – that we have a country where there are assumptions of a multi-party system, but that in our public voices, instead of political pluralism, we are ruled by media one-way. Of course, I may be wrong, I don't know, maybe I haven't studied the existing law and its additions and corrections properly, maybe it foresees some way for this great danger to our national and national interests to be pre-warned, but, as far as my humble mind goes, I wouldn't say so.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13324	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade, has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Goran Cvetanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13325	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SRS have many times followed this speaker, both in the Assembly's Privatisation Committee and in the polling committees that the Assembly has educated pointed to irregularities and illegalities in almost all the privatisations that have been completed so far in Serbia. All representatives of the state authorities, ministers, director of the Privatisation Agency, the Action Fund, all of their illegal actions and irregularities were justified by bad laws. We in the Serbian Radical Foreigners knew and spoke from the beginning, when these laws that change today were adopted, that these are bad laws and that they will produce exactly what they have produced. For this reason, as early as February 2004, we proposed to the Serbian Parliament amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act, which is certainly crucial. However, there was nothing of this law, but that is why today we have in your proposals something taken over from this proposal, and everything else is unacceptable for the SRS parliamentary group. Why? Because even now we're telling you what we told you when you've adopted these now positive legal regulations, we're telling you that even these laws will not overcome the problems we have in privatisation or taking action. Based on these proposals, we will have even slower privatisations than we have so far, we will continue to have a series of abuses, an unequal position of privatisation participants, we will have everything that will contribute to making future privatisations in Serbia subject to questions, as well as those that have been implemented so far. When I said that the representatives of the state authorities had justified their failures to work with bad laws, then I would like to point out that about nine months ago the Privatisation Committee initiated amendments to and additions to these laws that we are talking about today, and I would like the government's representative to tell us why it waited so long. Is it with the intention of completing some other privatisations in the interspace, in the meantime, in the way they ended up? Are the only bad regulations or poor work of state authorities to blame for all the privatisations spoken of by Serbian Radical Party counterparts? Is that why she was released, allegedly in the absence of good regulations, privatising "Atex", "Betex", "Zupe", "Impe", "C Market" and by the end of this session I could list all the companies. We in the SRS really get letters and requests from Serbian citizens every day to read their letters, to get to know the public about what the public does not know, what those who implement privatisation are successfully hiding. Everywhere there's a small company not talking about it, they can't get any expressions in the papers or on TV. These big ones at least manage to get the public to know their problems. Of course, I don't have time to read all that, but I'd like to point out a few characteristic cases that aren't talked about, which certainly deserve attention. For example, a quarry in Tutin was sold at the first auction for 1,200,000 euros to a certain Gojko Obradovic. The auction was cancelled on a proposal by Milet Korican and at the next auction, the quarry was sold for 35,000 euros, and that was the nephew of the municipality of Tutin, a certain Nedzad Omerovic, who is otherwise the director of the company, Hoffman. Also in Tutin, ŠIP Jelak, whose only one machine is, and more such machinery, worth 800,000 euros, was sold, with total assets (three production halls, modern computerised wood dryer, four hectares of the country within the factory), for 780,000 marks. Imagine, the forced manager, the bankruptcy manager in this company, sold the company to Dallas, the famous furniture producer, and Ludvo Hajrovic, the owner of the "Dalas", is the son of this forced manager. It's a very interesting buy. Let's say, Minister, we were given a letter from the Kickindian mill in the parliamentary group. I don't want to read everything, just what's characteristic. They say it was sold to Petra Matijević and his wife, Lana from Novi Sad, and the Agency for Privatisation and Minister Bubalo participated in the sale, and further jobs... It's interesting, Minister, and it's not funny. It was sold by a certain director of Vojvodjanska banka Simičić Zdravko paying off shares, some privileged people with large packages of money and sacks, according to this letter, and workers and pensioners did not receive a single dinar for their actions. That's what Serbian citizens of Serbia write to the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13326	The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic. After co-worker Cvetanovic, we will set a break of one hour, and after the break, the first word has a National MP, Milka Silajev.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13327	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the existing Privatisation Act has some shortcomings. The most common shortcomings are, for example, in auction privatisation programmes, partial balances, nationalised assets, object registration, use of permits, undisclosed liabilities. What happened with the Privatisation Act was the biggest problem of the Privatisation Agency, as the Privatisation Agency for High Accounting Subjects gave the cases to consultants, who often retain the documentation for a long time, all of which extends the planned terms together. Examples of unsuccessful privatisation from our environment certainly do not encourage actors in the transition of social capital. In the current conditions of engagement, with outdated equipment and technology, with a low level of craft, above all debt, you cannot expect spectacular results in privatisation. But regardless, we expected that private companies should have a profession, a fresh capital to be introduced, and positive economic categories to record economic growth. The privatised companies, by changing their status not only did they not stop the collapse but they are in crisis, and the crisis that has already been in these companies has deepened significantly. There are many examples in Leskovac, such as "Progress", "Rul", "Polimermer"; all these companies have long recorded extremely bad business results, and after privatisation not only were the results worse but there were no business activities in these companies. The workers did not receive salaries, the strike and hopelessness took place on stage. In a company like "Polymer" equipment and installations were completely blown up and destroyed. Expectations that the buyer, the majority owner, will start production, renovate the equipment, as well as the facilities, obviously did not come true. Companies don't work, workers don't receive salaries, big criminal charges are filed, strikes are ongoing. The salaries in these companies are messy, late and low. Production stagnates, plasma is difficult. The common feature of failed privatised enterprises is the abandonment of professions, the managerial concept in adjudication is not good quality, as well as insufficient or no introduction of fresh capital. A legitimate question arises whether the new majority owners really want to enable at least a two-year period of continuous production, therefore, of the existing programme and of the payments provided for by the collective agreement. It is undeniable that the SRS will support the legitimate demands of workers for any termination of the sale contracts where contracts are not respected. The reform of society, an efficient market economy, as well as the measures for its implementation are in the hands of the state, or those leading the state. I'll just give two examples, as far as privatisation is concerned: let's say, "The Machine S", where the production of machinery and equipment is; here we have all possible aspects, from the legal aspect, the economic aspect, where it's said that the jury account in the blockade is over 4,200,000 dinars, the capacity of 30% of the available production capacity, and all of this is insufficient to cover operating costs from current incomes. So he's doing business with his loss. Normally, employees in such a situation sue the company for unpaid earnings and contributions. The social aspect of such an enterprise – collective contract is not signed, no contract on working with employees is signed. The pearl of the timber industry "Zravlje", and now "Actavis" (the area of the building land is 266,112 square meters, the area of all the buildings is 55,146 square meters), has been sold for only 3.5m euros, and it has been proven to be the real value of 45m euros. The last investments in the factory itself amounted to fourm euros. The "Zravlje" factory from Leskovec is five times bigger than the Zorka Sabbath, which has been sold at a much higher price. In this whole situation, you have that same company can dispose of the property in Leskovec and finance the risk jobs, because it can pawn the factory's assets at greater value than it's paid to buy. In this whole situation, Mr. Vlahovic, the owner of the consulting firm, tells the current government and the minister that they made populist promises in the pre-election campaign, that they had a delay in the development of the private sector (this is one major lack of the work of the current government), that the liquidity crisis, the crisis of restructuring major systems in Serbia, the lack of professional potential, and that business performances of many businesses have been destroyed. If Mr. Vlahovic tells you this, you should imagine that there really is a problem. Therefore, as time has expired before the break, I suggest that the amendments the SRS has tried to influence all three proposed laws, not to listen to such criticisms by Mr Vlahovic. We're trying to help you make the existing law much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13328	Break to 15.20 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13329	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon work. Please, at the beginning, let us determine the quorum. I ask the Members of Parliament to insert their cards into the Parliament's electronic system units. Thank you. I find that using the electronic system has established that we have a quorum to work with. The People's Messenger Milisav Petronijevic has the word, and let the Messenger Branislav Rankic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13330	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is on the agenda to amend and supplement the law on privatisation, on the Action Fund and on the Securities Market, one set of amendments to the law that should make privatisation more effective, fairer, better. Otherwise, the word privatisation is the most frequently mentioned word for the last few years and always in a negative context, given the experience of privatisation from 2001 to 2003. Just to remind you, before I tell you what our position on amending the law is, in the election of this government, Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica's mandate, now prime minister, to submit exposés on the government's programme, has given a very important place in the programme privatisation. I will quote briefly: "When it comes to privatisation, it is necessary to consider how the current privatisation process can be improved and how the evident shortcomings can be addressed. The change in ownership must be fair, swift and in general interest. The relevant legislation must protect the interests of the state and minority shareholders. Dispute privatisations, suspected of being damaged by public interest, not respecting the law or contracts, will be reconsidered. The future evaluations of the value of the company will be more realistic and closer to the market, and the approach to the minimum price established at auctions will be changed. State interests in enterprises not yet privatised, or privatised so that the state has part of ownership, must be adequately protected; the state will more actively influence their governance and, wherever possible, claim dividend rights. "This is part of the government's election program. Among other things, this part of the SPS has provided support to this government. I want to say that the government will also measure its success in answering these questions that they asked back then. I warn them now, because these questions were rightly asked then, Serbia's public still has no answer to all these questions. I repeat that it was a period that people rightly called a catastrophic, looting, unfair privatisation, when a small number of people got rich buying wakes up for what they've been creating for decades. That's when we asked, and now, to review that privatisation, because Serbia has the right to know which families are on their way to buy the whole of Serbia. At that time, we are now asking for the revision of all privatisation procedures and the cancellation of all illegal and incorrect sales of enterprises. The government started to do that, the pressures were terrible on her, she was scared when she faced such companies that the DOS government, godfathers and others stood behind, not to mention, it was mentioned many times: "Hempro", "Auto Transport" and I don't know what it is, all people know it by heart. Then they put in one sentence – to stop privatisation. No one asked to stop the privatisation. No one asked for privatisation to be annulled, but we're looking for and now we're asking for an illegal privatisation to be annulled. I note this for reasons to check whether these changes and additions provide answers to these questions. We've been looking and asking to check how much the new owners respect contractual obligations, what about production, and obligations to workers and new investment. The government owes answers to these questions because the previous one did not give the desired effects, nor did it improve the quality of corporate governance, investment, economic development, export growth. On the contrary, the process was followed by layoffs from workers who had neither alternative employment nor adequate social protection. The privatisation revenues mainly ended in current consumption, with no clear record of how these funds were spent. The government did not have the strength to submit to the public then the requested report on how these funds were spent. It would be good for this government to establish the programme itself at the beginning of the year and eventually to report on how privatisation funds are being spent, in which direction it is going. Also, what was very characteristic, I say all this to get to that sentence – is it worth supporting these amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act. The lack of control was something that was very present both in the pre-privatization process and in the post-privatization procedure. When it comes to pre-privatisation proceedings, regardless of what perhaps in the privatisation process itself these tenders and auctions may sometimes seem legally correct, we all know, as these experiences show, that the greatest abuses occur precisely in the stage of preparation of privatisation. The state has to stop and defend its own interests. I'll say just two examples: an example where small shareholders who have majority capital in the company, say, the example of C Market, have no management rights, have no dividends, can't even sell their shares on the stock market. Why? Because management doesn't give a prospectus. This part should support these changes, as they force the prospectus to be made during a certain period of time. Or, another example, where the state owns 97%- Centertextile. If it stands by and observes, the value of capital is enormously falling, it's being destroyed, and it's going to come to a point where it's going to go, like many companies, why? The second, also characteristic, detail is that the preparation of the privatisation in most cases takes too long. Take an example of the sugarcane, an example of the first Serbian sugar factory. Since 2001, the privatisation process has been going on. Someone obviously cares, I hope the government doesn't, and the government wants it to go to waste, because it's state capital, to repay it, to degrade itself, and to lead to bankruptcy. Unless someone is in the interest of leading the policy of the former government and that sugar in Serbia can only produce Kostic and no one else, that everything behind it must stand aside and stand aside. Finally, control of the process followed by the privatisation of the company. Let us take the example of "The Traveler" – everyone cried out of happiness when it was privatized, and we have come now, the public is very much buzzing about it, until apparently someone committed the fraud. I think the amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act are heading towards resolving these issues through the termination of the contract with whoever did such a thing. It is good that the government has seen these questions and that it is going to meet to pre-war, but also the damage must be compensated by those who have done so, so as not to get away and stand aside. So, given the state of the government's privatisation, which she was already, which we've all been talking about, this is an attempt, even with a year of delay, to warn problems. Finally, I think that the amendments and additions of these laws should be supported for one reason – because they are better than the Privatisation Act that applies, but bear in mind that they are better than the bad laws. They should be supported, because if it weren't for that, they'd be left with a bad law, and there'd still be opportunities for all the things I've been saying. In that sense, there are amendments to be accepted, but I think we should talk about it when the time comes for amendments. So, we'll support, although we think the amendments and the additions of the laws are speeding up, but they don't solve privatisation problems until the end, for the simple reason that the old solution doesn't remain.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13331	The word is made by MP Branislav Rankic. At the same time, I would like to inform Mr Stefanovic and Mr Vucelic that time has been spent for the parliamentary group. After Mr. Rankic, the MP of the people, Natasa Jovanovic, should be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13332	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from these three points joined into one, it is seen that it has brought the most attention to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatisation. And my attention was caused by the bill, especially by those members involved in the restructuring of businesses. It is my obligation, in a way, to remind me of the restructuring that takes place in RTB Bor, introduced by the Government decision in 2002, as the Constitutional Court later found - against the law and in an unconstitutional way, for the reasons that not all the conditions to be checked have to be met in order to declare or start the restructuring process, which has never been checked on the market whether there are potential customers for such a company, and there have been. There is a decision by the Constitutional Court, which is quite clear, that restructuring has been initiated in RTB Bor illegally. Namely, this restructuring was initiated on the basis of a 1993 Serbian government regulation, which ceased to apply in 1997, which the government did not know about in 2002. Reading these members relating to restructuring in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation, the impression is that the legal framework for the restructuring process is now being reached, which will decide to implement the restructuring process. Otherwise, this process that started in RTB Bor (it was never clear to anyone as far as it came) had one single result, which is about to leave about 5,000 employees with some minimum benefits under the social programme to leave their jobs. It is now a great pressure for employees and citizens of Bora, because it is a potential social bomb, since none of them have been able to find a new job, or it is rare that they have entered the local structures of the parties that are in power and thus managed to reach jobs in local public enterprises. That is why I would like the minister to say whether the real information provided by the Institute of Economic Sciences in Belgrade, that in 2004, a certain financial group of Scandinavia addressed the Institute of Economic Sciences three times with a desire to invest in RTB Bor about a billion euros; not to buy a base, but to invest in the revitalisation of production. All three times, the Institute informed the government, individual Bugal Minister, Minister Naumov and Prime Minister Kostunica, and never received any answers. During the campaign for local elections, at the end of August and early September of last year, he was in Bor and local television, asking what with 30m euros of promised credit from the business banks of RTB Boru, following a strike by workers on the Paracin loop, answered that the question of the day when the loan would be realised. Here, a simple calculation shows that it's, like, 240 days. At one of the previous sessions, however, I asked Minister Lalovic what happened to the loan, as the entire government was behind it, and Minister Lalovic said that negotiations with Jugopetrol were almost near the end. I would ask you -- since when did Jugopetrol become a business bank and in what capacity can Jugopetrol lend loans, for example, to RTB Bor? He's a good member of the state's guarantee to protect the environment where it was disrupted during the privatisation process. Since I do not have much time, not wanting to take time for my colleagues, I will only draw your attention to Article 41z, where it is said that the buyer of capital (hereinafter: the consignor) can grant a contract on the sale of capital, i.e. the property of a third party (hereinafter: receiver). You should have agreed with Serbian. If this is a receiver, then this first one has to be a transmitter, and if this one's the first trigger, then this second one needs to be a receiver, and not a receiver. I will draw your attention to Article 30 where it is said – companies, financial organisations or institutions in which SRJ or its bodies have founding rights, etc. About two years ago, the name of this territory we live in the state union of Serbia-Montenegro was changed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13333	The People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Milka Silaev be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13334	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, almost no one has mentioned one very important thing during this debate, and that is that you are the Minister of Economy and Privatisation. We have to look at this set of laws in the context of the overall economic situation in our country and the fact that since you are the Minister for Economy and Privatisation, since you presented all the "problems" in your principle of exposure because of the slow privatisation process, you have not told us the information, which unfortunately exists in all the serious economic magazines or studies done by economists in our country, which is that the daily losses of the Serbian economy are almost $500,000. That debt is somewhat reduced compared to last year, but it's still catastrophic, because you think what it is in a month, if we are today, while I'm talking to you here about this law, convincing you to accept the amendments, realize that $500,000 is gone. Indeed, time is short, and since there are several other colleagues from the SRS parliamentary group who should speak strictly, I will talk about the Privatisation Act. We think you should have accepted the key amendments of the SRS. What Mr Nikolic specifically warned you about, which is the retroactivity of previously concluded contracts that are not respected. Now you will probably answer that there are hundreds of cases, and that is best known by colleagues in the Privatisation Committee and the President of the Committee, and above all, Serbian radicals of the Committee, who are not respected, and these are social programs, the layoff of workers outside the contract, the unpaid total amount, which Mr. Vukic spoke of today, then you will say – it is no longer my jurisdiction, it is within the framework of justice, trade courts. I now return to that long-repeated story by Serbian radicals and the famous name Marko Kljajevic, who cheers and dresses in trade courts, not only in Belgrade, but also in Kragujevac. It's just amazing that we convince workers when we attend the Privatisation Committee and when they turn to us in cities where they live, and their dispute lies before some trade court. In particular, in Kragujevac it is the "Red Star" meat industry factory, it is the PKB transport, and you are familiar with it, the Aran angelic "Venčac"; many problems, and on many occasions they have been discussing it all day and cannot reach any conclusion. What conclusion does the Committee draw? The Committee concludes that within 7 days, the Privatisation Agency, which is or is not, has largely failed to determine the facts behind which damaged workers stand and that it is recommended to the competent trade court, and usually to the infamous and only wrongly known Kljajevic, that these procedures are accelerated and that workers are no longer dissuaded and that their rights are exercised. Eat the donkey wolf, it's nothing. How do you know that I am an MP for the Serbian Radical Party from Kragujevac, where the key problem is the car factory of the Zastava group and how the process of restructuring was done according to Vlahovic's model, I have a specific question for you and today I want to know, immediately or during today's debate, that workers in the Zastava car factory know this, answer – what will happen to the privatisation of the car factory. It was the key asset of incumbent Mayor Veroljub Stevanovic. None of this, of that, your MPs talk very often about some kind of project that neither Kragujevka nor the general public knows much about. Give people some guarantees, and above all you have to tell us if you are behind the statement by Slobodan Lalovic, Minister of Labour, who said on state television that he simply has no solution for workers from the Institute of Employment and Education, the famous WHO, which stops working in September of the month. These are key problems for a city that has over 40,000 unemployed people, and of which 80% of those who spent the entire working century in the car factory. I'm asking you for a concrete answer to that question and for you to tell us as responsible minister. I want you to explain to us how it's possible that something that would be generally acceptable to one country, in which there are a lot of those who have invested through so-called. The old foreign exchange savings or the famous loan for Serbia's rebirth, of which only Bogoljub Karic had the greatest benefit and had the most wealth on it, so that it is possible that through this kind of record broadcast by the state someone is applying to become the owner of some capital. So much for these six minutes, since colleagues still have a lot of questions for you. What I asked you was something that, unfortunately, is not funny, what is your face now. Answer the citizens of Serbia and car factory workers of the flag group. Try at least some arguments to deny what is said and what is openly suspected by people when it comes to your future work and solving these problems. Amendments and additions to this law could have been better under the Serbian Radicals proposal. Let's go talk about concrete things sometime. You're the Minister for both business and privatisation. Go out and say: I am capable of this government and this government, which I do not think is capable of or has legitimacy, because it is supported by only 12-13% of Serbian citizens, but while still in this place you have to send a clear message, and I am particularly interested in the Zastava Car Factory and these contracts that are closed, which are not respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13335	The People's Messenger Milka Silajev has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13336	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, is difficult to find an example of a law that is as difficult to dispute as the existing Privatisation Act. There is almost no political party, no opposition or positional party, which has not publicly expressed doubts about its quality. In particular, the controversial results of privatisation have been achieved by its application in practice. Hence, many wanderings that culminated in a significant slowdown in the process and even greater social tensions. Right now, we're in some weird combination of dissatisfaction, false optimism and unsatisfaction. We have reached the lowest point, at which the supporters of the previous Privatisation Act were also at their own time when they only defended this law by saying that there was better privatisation than none. Can she really do better? Can quality privatisation be achieved by changing the existing law? Certainly, the main problem in the privatisation process is what with companies for which there are no customers under the prescribed conditions. So far, this problem has been solved by a method of free settlement, popularly called – shopping for one dinar. No matter how hard individuals try to make this method possible, the fact is that there are other solutions. Thus, according to the proposal to amend the Law on Privatisation, which the government adopted in late December, the current text of the law is literally too strong. Of the 84 current members, 18 are changing and adding as many as 24 brand-new ones. Changes could be grouped as strengthening the responsibilities of participants in tenders and company buyers and a detailed legal arrangement of new powers and procedures conducted by the Agency in the process, as well as the introduction of new institutes: capital representatives and the grant of sales contracts. As regards the liability of participants and customers, the damages are foreseen. For example, if a public auction participant declared to be a buyer or who acquires the highest second offer does not sign the minutes or does not pay within the intended time limit, he loses the customer's property and the right to participate in future auctions for the company, as well as the right to return deposits. The ban also applies to members of his family. In addition, it shall pay on behalf of the damage incurred for the privatisation entity and for the Agency a cash amount of 30 per cent of the sale price on the Agency's account, of which 15 per cent belongs to the privatisation entity. In essence, Article 41 has been changed. The law. The contract on the sale of capital shall be deemed to be terminated if, in no event later established, the customer fails to comply with the provisions laid down in the law. The restructuring in the privatisation process is defined as a significant change in the company, including its subsidiaries, which enables the sale of its capital or assets and organisational changes; the write-off of the principal debt, interest or other claims, in whole or in part; the write-off of debt in whole or in part for the settlement of creditors from the funds achieved from the sale of capital or assets of that undertaking, and other changes. It is said explicitly that the future restructuring decision will be made by the Privatisation Agency. The new provisions impose an obligation on public undertakings, tax administrations and other republican authorities and organisations to forgive long enterprises in restructuring, thus settling from capital sales revenues. If the Privatisation Entity does not agree with the level of the State Trustee's declared claim, it may object to an arbitration panel within eight days of the date of submission of the application. The privatisation entity is obliged to deliver the restructuring programme to the Agency within 90 days of the date on which the Agency approves a comprehensive analysis of the business of the privatisation entity, and this deadline may be extended by 90 days. At the request of the entity or trustee, the Agency shall, within a maximum period of 30 days from the date of receipt of the restructuring programme, make a decision on its acceptance, refusal, recovery or modification of the programme and the privatisation entity shall be obliged to implement the correction or amendment of the programme within the time limit set by the Agency, in accordance with the law. So, gentlemen, the Serbian government has faced the problem of selling the social enterprises left behind after selling the best companies through two previous waves of privatisation to free-distribution employees by 2000 and under the 2001 Law. The company's over-indebted debt is the main reason for the inactivity of these companies. Of course, the lack of interested customers for these companies is also conditioned by their technological backlog, but also by huge losses. In its proposal to amend the privatisation rules, the law promoter provided for so-called ‘privatization rules’. conditional write-off of government creditors – for banks in bankruptcy, Fund for Development, Public Revenue Management, Stock Reserve Directorate, public enterprises, PIO Fund, which on average make up three-quarters of the total creditors of all companies. The state should give up revenue and give priority to privatisation and the development of businesses over budgeting. According to the model, state-owned creditors would write off long companies before it was offered to customers, and they would later settle their debts from the privatisation income. As regards commercial creditors, new regulations, if adopted, will allow them to temporarily write off their claim and, after selling the payment of the privatisation income, of course, to their participation in the total long-term enterprise. On the other hand, unless they want to, commercial creditors will be able to negotiate with the new owner a way to pay off their debt. On such a model, the promoter decided to find customers for the largest number of companies with clean balances. In addition to this change, modified privatisation processes could bring more drastic penalties for non-contracted customers. In the future, in the event of termination of a contract, a buyer who has failed to fulfil the contractual obligations will be prohibited from participating in privatisation. The ban will also apply to members of his family. A significant newspaper should be the regulation of the so-called so-called. the contract has been awarded. This means that a buyer who for any reason does not want or is unable to meet the contractual obligations will be able to find someone else interested in the company to take over the company. The new boss would have to take over the pre-arranged commitments along with the company, or, in the event of taking over a privatised firm, he would have to meet all the conditions in the tender procedure that the original tender winner had to meet. The amendments also provide that in the event of a capital break-up, a temporary representative is to be transferred to the Action Fund, as well as that from the moment of termination to the final decision of the court, to protect social capital. The newspapers in the privatisation process are positive because they legalise the practice of the Privatisation Agency, as well as the regulations adopted by the Regulations. Technical innovation is within the law, because the intention of these solutions is to speed up privatisation. However, I resent the legislator for not seriously dealing with denationalisation, a problem that will continue to prevent privatisation from ending. Because a growing problem arises over the election of a financial advisor, and his funding, whose engagement sometimes loses its meaning. I think companies that are interesting to customers just because of their assets should be liquidated and property sold. This would avoid cases such as the privatisation of Travellers in Nis. The land law is also urgently needed to hire foreign investors who have a major obstacle to this market. Article 24 of the proposed supplement contributes to the efficiency in the process of transferring part of the capital to employees, without compensation, in actions, since the decision to issue actions without the compensation of the privatisation entity is required to make within the prescribed time limit. Also, given that the time for enrolment of actions without compensation is an important element of a public call, a moment is closer to the time limit for enrollment of actions is starting to run. Gentlemen, the G17 plus will certainly support this law, which is very important for the recovery of the economy, and I hope that others will have that opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13337	The word is made by MP Momir Markovic, and be prepared by Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13338	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this redistribution of time, only the SRS spends its time, when it comes to one law, and we feel damaged when they are joined by two or three laws and then our MPs must mostly shorten the discussion, because time has been spent. As for the other MPs, other MPs' clubs, they don't spend their time, so we're gonna have to do some new adoption of the Rules of Procedure and get it done. When it comes to this point, I'm just going to say a little something to leave the time for Mr. Krasic, too, because he has a lot to say. During the debate on amending the Privatisation Act, we had the opportunity to hear Minister Bubalo praises the previous minister, and the minister from the previous calls back on him that he is now a good minister. So, the good ministers make compliments to each other, only not good privatisation. Fair intentions, and the privatisation of the robbery since 2001. Fair intentions, and property sold out for nothing. Fair intentions, and state banks destroyed, the debts of the companies that the privatisation entities were so written off and then the privatisation entities sold without debts; therefore, the state directly damaged for all that these companies owed to banks. Over 700,000 workers were thrown into the street. He says – nothing seems to go right in this privatisation, only commissions are fat and arrive on time. That's how it was, remember, that all the newspapers, all the funds of public information, wrote about a certain Kolesar and others, who only on Popovac, took over a million euros in cement sales. Remember, there were some commissions at U.S. Steel, too. That's right, that's right now, because as soon as some privatisation is interesting, or an auction, or a stock sale, the vice president of the government of Labus hurts his leg, then everyone has to go to him. I wonder why they even go to him when we have the Privatisation Agency, we have the Minister and the Ministry of Business and Privatisation. What do these future buyers at Labus want if this isn't about the commission we're talking about? So it will be until the election, and I hope it will be in June, July or possibly September. When the SRS forms a government, we will review all the privatisations so far and everything that is in accordance with the law should be an ally, but everything where it is found to be stuttered, that it has been pampered, that three factories have been bought and a man has to spread 10 euros in order to buy three factories, for God's sakes, they will certainly not be able to keep that state property that they took in this way. There's a concern here, it's said from this pay phone -- that's how we're going to dissipate all future investors. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, whoever gets rich in a thieving way is a thief, so whether it's from our street, from our city, whether it's from our country or from another country, it's not a big deal. The basic question being raised is what has been done with the money that has been collected from privatisation so far? Is any of the factories running? Have any new factories been built? Did anything happen, except that money went into the budget, or into consumption? I think there's a little bit of money that's been collected in this way by a non-domestic business. However, when these concession laws (though I hear the committees, as far as these laws are concerned, disagreed and did not accept), then we'll have a little chat on this subject as well. I apologize for having to say this briefly, and I could say a lot more, but Mr Krasic is looking forward to using the Serbian Radical Party to say something these ten minutes. As far as these new laws are concerned, we're going to talk a little bit more about these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13339	Right on the line, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13340	Mr. Markovic, it would be good if when you talk about something you have arguments and you'd be better off correcting what you did in Zemun than mentioning Vice President G17 plus Mr. Labus, who has nothing to do with this story. I know it's not easy for you that Mr. Labus is the head of the negotiating team and he's bringing the country into the European Union and I know it hurts you to get a positive assessment of the feasibility study, but it's not worth the story to you. If you have something concrete, you should tell the citizens of Serbia, but empty stories are of no use to anyone. I ask you openly: what do you know how to do, what do you suggest? Go ahead. Thus, empty stories and empty straw are not worth anything to anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13341	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13342	All I said was that Labus had a leg and the guy from the firm was coming to Labus' house. I was wondering what he needed to get there. As for Zemun, Mr Albianic, as far as he was concerned, the citizens of Zemun were best assessed and again given power to the Serbian Radical Party in these local elections. As for what we know we are doing, when we take over power from you, Serbia and the world will see what and how much we know and we can do. So, don't worry about Zemun, worry about your party G17 percent, excuse me, G17 plus, and let everyone take care.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13343	Since this was according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Albianic has the right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13344	Mr. Markovic, you as chairman should warn him because he did not specify which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured and had no basis for reporting for the word here. I will remind you, Mr. Markovic, of the following (no, this one of your SRS): business space in Zemun, Pinky, money transfer, how you financed your so-called a newspaper or something called a newspaper on your part "Great Serbia"; it takes citizens of Zemun and citizens of Serbia to explain, how it was distributed free of charge in 500,000 copies, whether it was from the money of those people who paid certain things for Pinky and Business space. Secondly, as far as the story of a visit to Mr. Labus' house is concerned, on one of the shows, I've warned you that it's forbidden for radicals to climb trees, because there's a Law on the Protection of the Environment, and that they're peeking into other people's rooms.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13345	Are you answering the Rules of Procedure? Tell me which member?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13346	He's misread me again. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand Mr. Albianic about this climb to the tree. I'm not gonna tell him it's supposed to be, and it might be a big shame that he got off the tree, but as far as Pinky's concerned, the business space, as far as all the activities that the SRS government in Zemun has been doing for those four years, it's all under control, and there's still only one application that hasn't been completed; I expect the prosecution to take that last move, either to press charges or to drop the charges, because they thought I hired 72 people. Mr. Albianic, I've been in prison for two and a half months not to influence witnesses because of a long list of employees. I repeat to you, as soon as the radicals come to power, for before you cannot, you will go to prison, but because of your long fingers.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13347	A word by the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Albianic. After that, Mr. Zoran Krasic will receive the word, as Mr. Momir Markovic has already misused the right to report to the Rules of Procedure twice.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13348	Mr. Markovic, you didn't explain here how it was printed. a sheet or so on. The "Great Serbia" newspaper in a circulation of 500,000 free copies, how was the money transferred from the Business Area and Pinky transferred and how was it reported to be there by the recreation of 296 workers, and the business space had only 34? How do you explain the fact about building on a plot on the corner of the Romani and Sava Kovacevic? How do you explain the fact that 228,000 dinars were transferred from business space to SRS from October 1 to December 10, 1997? How to explain the fact that SO Zemun's money was going through strange roads; for example, from a dedicated utility building account, on behalf of the cost of publishing ads in a special edition of the so-called special edition. Zemunski novine, 2,100,000 dinars were paid, according to the decision of the Executive Board SO Zemun on 24 April 1998. Wasn't it a difficult year for Serbia, what did you do at the time? How can you explain the fact that the Executive Board of SO Zemun to Dragan Todorovic on 2nd and 3rd October 2000, which is already a shame, has assigned seven cadastrian plots, a total area of 1,820 square meters to its conclusions? How to explain the fact of what happened on 10 October 2000 and what you participated in; on 6 October 2000 when the equipment and office furniture were donated to the SRS, worth around 100,000 marks, and the signatories of the contract were Momir Marković and Vojislav Seselj. Am I even supposed to count these things? Since you're not ashamed to call someone here a congregation speaker, why did you become a national MP in the first place, to protect yourself with immunity, are you?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13349	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13350	It's easy for Mr. Albianic, he's the last president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, and then he can use this little time he has left to read something that's long been completed in front of all the judicial authorities, but when something comes out of some context, it sounds like a few times. To make it sound a little bit better, let's go back to these three laws, and maybe it's a good thing you've brought this debate together, because yet these laws concern privatisation. Of course, this government continues, as the previous government did, to defile the word "privatisation" for all citizens. When "privatisation" is mentioned in Serbia, it is an automatic negative association to something that means losing a job, losing a job, small money is solved by a social problem, for small money someone comes to some business space, which is more or less successful for future production, and usually lowers that production. It fits into one concept of controlled chaos. Privatisation is only one segment, we have this controlled chaos in other areas. We expected the new government to at least try to solve a problem, to make it clear to everyone what the objective of privatisation is. Is it just defining new owners, something that didn't have the right owners, to make him responsible for what he's doing and the means he's using? Is it possible that the purpose of privatisation is to provide funds for this painful process that you call transition when moving from a socio-economic system to a new one, still unknown? Is it possible that the purpose of privatisation is to fill out social funds, and in general, what is that goal? During the adoption of this law, Serbia was said to be ahead, as it is stronger for one experience, as the Czech Republic passed, as Poland, as Russia passed the voucher system, as the system passed, as the system passed, as the free division system passed. Various examples were used and reportedly the best formula, the best law, and then we saw in practice that it became something quite different. It is now a concept – chaos. The previous government says, on account of these changes and additions – we are satisfied because the concept does not change. So that's all she's happy about, which means that everything that's proposed will be the continuity of something we talked about and what we're exposed to. Of course, this kind of privatisation allows every bastard to get to the factory, picks up a lock and shakes it about that fence, and by the way, he can hold that cabbage or that salad, and to say, well, look, if I were there, it would all open up. This privatisation allowed people with purses and bows to go to the bank, provide a guarantee of millions, winning auctions or tenders, to become some owners of new capital. The business world wonders who this boy is, no one knows him alive, and he came from some Whisper, and later we find out he was a representative of Caneta Frog's capital or someone else. Of course, Serbia is a country of nicknames, each nickname corresponds to the name and last name, we got these newly-composed ones; but if we look at what some of our people were looking for in Cyprus, so looking for lost treasure, first of all, Albianic, his Dinkic, then Velimir Ilic, and Batic, to quote some more names of those from DB who went to control that money, the public recently found out that 1,600,000 euros could have been transferred overnight, and with little effort and about three billion more to be found on these exotic islands. By means of these exotic islands, we got the National Savings Bank, and probably all these money that came in here, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, except through various accounts they changed allegedly the owner. These are the "epochal" results of privatisation. Privatisation has detested, and it needs to be seen in one context. How do you get to the market value of capital? Very difficult, because if our market opens up as a can for sardines, thanks to Mr. Labus, who has enabled uncontrolled imports, and even at these prices, then of course it loses motivation and economic interest to produce the same products in our country. Of course, imports came primarily from products that competed with our production. This is reflected in the market value of the assets and the value of a particular undertaking and of course this value is falling. If you look at the effects where privatisation is done, whether there has been an enormous increase in employment, and I guess that's why the state is privatizing, because the state doesn't want on its shoulders to have social problems, but rather wants to have citizens in working relationships, where this new privateer takes care of them by providing them with a job, and they earn a decent living based on their work, there the state has proved to be a silent observer, she doesn't care about it. In that context, we need to interpret this fact that we have so many banks. They are by the name of the party, and by the sources of the means of the very colourful, but ours is not, and yet whoever has finished it is known – the one that is encrypted has ended. He probably shut down the Belgrade Bank, which was the strongest bank. With two billion blocked funds in America, by friends and a coded party, and four billion in Cyprus and surrounding islands, with six billion Belgrade Bank is the strongest bank, liquid, stable. This should be added to an orthodox disgust against everything called the Law and the Constitution by the same party, which does not wish to implement any decision by the court concerning bankruptcy and liquidation of banks. Of course, in this context, someone is forcing us to vote on your proposals to do something, and we are going to try to prove to you in the amendment debate how much you've used the wrong solutions at this point to preserve the policy of controlled chaos.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13351	Mr. Albianic, you'll be entitled to a replica, just one notice to read. The continuation of the 10th session of the Committee on Trade and Tourism of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, scheduled for Monday, 21 March 2005, starting at 14.00 hours, will take place on Tuesday, 22 March 2005, starting at 10.00 hours in the fifth floor. The chairman of the Committee, MP Rajko Baralic. Otherwise, there are no more reported debaters for the word, that is, where there is time for discussion and there is a right to the replica of Mr Albianic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13352	Mr. Krasic, when you attack the G17 leaders, you'd have to have arguments for that. First of all, I want to tell you that the destruction of Serbia, the destruction, has ended together with you, JUL and others in the former period. You were the ones who ruined the country. We didn't invent Jezda and Dafina. Was it by any chance that one of your leaders was saving up there? What are you talking about? You're talking about there were four banks in Serbia, whose debt was so much that it took Serbia to stop and 18 months to single out workers' salaries to get those banks back. You're attacking people who are bringing order into Serbia. Does that mean you're putting yourself in a line of mechanics and others who would like to get something here in a squishy way? I'm asking you again, what exactly do you want? You don't understand yourself in trouble, you have nothing to suggest; what you're actually doing, other than selling an empty fog.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13353	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic, member 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13354	Article 100(4) Mr. Albianic got a little carried away, and he's too emotional about what this is his last presidency in a parliamentary group that no longer exists. Mr. Albianic, I didn't destroy Serbia. Mr. Albianic, I didn't have anything at Jazda and Dafina's, but I'd warn you of one thing, obviously you're sad in politics. I was a member of the Survey Committee who examined the business of Jazda, Dafina and your Dusan Vlatkovic, who pretended not to see those socks when Dinkic entered. It would be good if you read the book "What Takes a Left If You Don't Know Your Right." Something else, about what happened in 1993, when they were supposed to be these banks. Look with your coalition partners, look at Covic, what Jezimir Vasiljevic gave him, he claims. Look who was in power in 1993. I would only mention some names: Miodrag Perišić, Ilija Đukić. Take care. You were probably in that party back then. It's not nice to attack your party, but, of course, you have one way to cover up your initial error with a graying of presumptions that later go into exposure, so the audience forgets that first mistake you made. The first mistake you made is that the SRS came into power on March 24, 1998, and all you said was in 1993. I can understand that you're having trouble with your calendar, I know, your password's broken, your duration's up, now you're at the level of a statistical error; that's what you should malely endure, maybe later you'll do something. But keep in mind, Serbia has very little prison capacity, the future government will have to take care of it and it will likely be the location where you will bake that great expertise of yours. Don't forget one thing – since 2000, every dog could have been an expert.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13355	Replica, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13356	Mr. Krasic, as far as my time is concerned, my time is yet to come, unlike yours. And as for your government, is it possible that during the most difficult period in which Serbia was your only political wisdom was to stand up to the whole world? But the demagogue and the empty story doesn't end for you, immediately the government officials, at that time the SRS, took over the flats of 130, 140, 160 and more squares. You're not ashamed to talk like that around here. Is it possible to admire the authorities in Zemun and that your high-ranking official Gordana Pop-Lazic in April 2004 received a housing solution, or her father, for a five-story facility, of 1000 square meters. What kind of demagogy are you talking about here? Also, on 1 April 1997, the Executive Board of SO Zemun assigned land of 469 square meters at the corner of Romania at 150 dinar per square metre. How dare you talk like that? Do you know that at that time you only participated in power under the slogan not to interfere? But how you interfered for your own benefit. Since it was not clear to you that money was transferred, and what's interesting is that it was charged by the account for the recreation of 296 workers, where did that money go, unlike between 34 and 296 workers? Why don't you answer that? Explain to me. As for your statements, as for the things you've done, what you've done, you've hit on students, taxi drivers, education workers, you've raised a gun, you've shown pride, you've done passion, you've ripped up microphones, you've spilled water. What you've been doing, remember. Recall the statements of your official, who says, "I am very proud to be the first on the list of 19 Serbian politicians to whom the Council of the EU has banned the entry into the 15 countries." That hurts. We're taking this country to the EU, and that's not your way. That's what hurts you and you don't know what to do, because we're about to get a positive assessment of the feasibility study.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13357	Just one warning for all MPs: Article 100 of Section 3 does not allow for facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons and I would ask you to refrain from it. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Krasic answered. I'd like to ask you to discuss the details afterwards. If that's not the case, I'm afraid there's no point in continuing the session until 18 o'clock like this. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13358	What I said happened. Mr. Albianic, what you're trying to do, and I have to say very, very unsuccessfully, to read, someone pulled out that main page of yours, so you've been complaining a little bit about it. Just to remind you, the same was read by Vuk Draskovic, Nebojsa Covic and all those who came on October 5th, including those who were in power before 5th of October 2000. They attacked everyone. Whoever was talking about what you've just read is now in the thick air of the opposition, and there are many who are not even parliamentary, like Batic, here's that GSS, who's going to guess more how many of you were there. You know, citizens don't want to hear it anymore. This theme has been overcome. If that were what you say, Mr. Albianic, probably those 10-15 people whose names you listed would have been in prison a long time ago, but none of it happened. He's the wrong author. You know, it's very dangerous when Dinkic deals with ice. She hires that FIA agency and gets a certificate that she doesn't have any money. There's money, there's a book. Now the second one goes to that book, concrete evidence -- in which account, which of-short companies, how much money there was, could have been brought into the country a billion and 600 million. But he didn't want Dinkic, he better go somewhere else, better make it possible to privatise through these: Hamovic, Lazarevic, I can't miss any name or name. You're no expert on that either. They caught that Lalic of yours, as he was, he was the chief courier, caught him, filmed him, everything is recorded. You guys can't keep track of each other here. It'll make it easier for you to realize that you're the last president of the G-17 Plus parliamentary group, you'll feel better, you'll be happy. As Toma said - happy Albianic. No one's gonna have any more fun with your novelties. You have to understand that everything has its own deadline. Your duration has come out, it's gone, it's gone, it's running out of time, you've exhausted it badly, it's naked, it's snowing in the weather, there's traces, it's showing everything, and it's all clear. Here, come out, I'll never show up again, tell you what you have, just make sure it's not already seen, because if it's already already seen, it'll be too disgusting.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13359	The word has been made by the People's MP, Miloljub Albianic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13360	Mr. Krasic, don't worry about Parliament Group G-17 plus and G-17 plus leaders. I'll tell you this: you haven't answered my question since Dinkic introduces order into Serbia, does that bother you, do you want to mix, fly, act squishy, what's the matter? You didn't answer me. I'm going to tell you that order is being introduced, and the introduction of VAT and fiscal cash registers reduces the grey economy. We saved up 20 billion dinars in 2004. The deficit was halved in 2004, almost zero in 2005. On the other hand, Mr. Labus is introducing the country into Europe. That's what he's proud to point out, as his achievement, G-17 plus. The time has come to round up co-operation with The Hague tribunal. You're even bothered by voluntary surrenders, and you're publicly declaring it. All this gives Serbia one full strength to really get on the European path and no one can stop us.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13361	I don't think I'd give a word to anyone else. We're moving on to work. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I conclude a joint principled search on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Market of Papers and other Financial Instruments, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Action Fund and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation. We continue to work on the agenda and move on to the law search in particular. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13362	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we used two days in discussions, very interesting, according to my assessment, to amend a set of laws that we need to remove some negativity related to the privatisation process so far. It seems to me that this time too, when it comes to the proposal, what I'm standing behind and what was done at the Ministry of Economy, is a very high degree of consent. I haven't noticed very large proportions in the speeches of most speakers. Of course, I cannot look back on all the questions and all the discussions that have arisen, there is also what is intended exclusively for theatre and people. It's not the subject of analysis. I will come from the first debater, Mr. Aleksandr Vlahovic, who has apostrophe for 13 months, in terms of slowness. There were other MPs who pointed out that it had already been a year and that we had only now come to a change in the Privatisation Act. In this regard, I would like to say this: over the entire period of 13 months, we had the Privatization Act. So we didn't have a legal void, we didn't have an area that wasn't regulated by the legal text, on the contrary, we had a reverse situation. Who has ever been in a position to participate in the legislative procedure knows how complicated and complex this procedure is. Here, I'd go backwards, analyzing these 13 months. First, I want to say that the amendment to the Privatisation Act, and these two laws, was prepared in December of the month. The fact that it's only now on the agenda can't be respected by me, by the government or by anyone else. So, three months have passed in this, and you know everything was more than the Privatisation Act, although I must admit that the MPs at the very beginning of this government's mandate showed the need to change this law. So it's been in this house for three months. If it is said that the minimum three months were to change, I say again, knowing that the committees and the government were to pass, and so on, we're coming to October of the month, and I started covering this ministry in September. Therefore, it is clear that the first thing I joined was the amendment of this law and these two other laws. So... What? Well, that's what you're going to ask him, I'm talking about what I'm doing, because here some of the MPs have asked me if I feel capable of what I'm leading. So, I'm talking about myself, about my work, I can't answer for the second part. In September of the month I started working on this, and in December we had before the Parliament of this change. That's just enough to say, because there were a few of them who pointed to it. I agree that this amendment, which is foreseen for the law on securities, will not change anything in this legislative area. There are one or two members, who need more to prevent some occurrences of the takeover we saw as negative and to enable the Law to be compatible with the Act on the Action Fund. My condition in order to accept that the area was changed in this way was to have urgent approaches to making legal texts on securities of value, because it was definitely the worst part in the legislative system, when it comes to privatisation, the one that regulated and regulated today's securities of value. To this end, I advocated that even during last year, at one point I suggested that this law be put out of force and not applied because it is not suitable for the development of the securities and capital market in our country. There were words (also with Mr. Vlahovic) that the government was planning to take on legislative activity. Here I would just like to point out that during a not-so-a-time period of time, until these changes, the regulation has even fully regulated everything on restructuring. For the first time, restructuring, as one complex, very important process, is regulated by law. What does it mean by regulation to regulate restructuring, which so far has been in force? Mr. Toma Nikolic gave several very constructive discussions, remarks, and I would say more – concrete. He said Article 2 indicates criteria for determining the privatisation method. The government of the Republic of Serbia has accepted the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party, leaving out the above criteria. It was also an objection to Article 20a, what if they don't apply. I would like to say about this - if the State Commissioner does not report the claim, credible, the data contained in the restructuring programme, i.e. the data on the claims that the debtor has. That means the question is settled, and the trustee is stimulated to report claims. Article 10 – the composition of the arbitration council – was also an observation. I must say that the composition of the arbitration council is by nature of the claim and defines the composition of the council. On Article 20, there was an objection to the introduction of retroactivity for the termination of the contract. What I'm trying to say here is that it's an indirect solution and it's meant to be. Retroactivity in the termination of the contract when a court case is initiated shall not be taken into account. We can't influence the courts. There's already a contract broken, a case has been handed over to court, and we have to wait for a final solution. When it comes to everything else, I must point out that those privatisation contracts that were concluded before these changes, and if the terms for the termination of the contracts are obtained after these changes, this solution will apply. There were remarks about whether there must be a minimum of three participants. I want to point out that we should be happy if there's a single bidder for these companies, and we don't have a situation to rip our sleeves off from how interested they are in the enterprises that are designed for restructuring. Some of the terms that have been criticised here, as a mate, etc., are simply terms of family and inheritance. Therefore, they were used for a comprehensive solution. Otherwise, you can definitely make an observation, but for the sake of integrity you use the same terms. Also, it has been pointed out, and especially with MP Jova Todorovic, I have concluded from that discussion and I am personally pleased that the effort has been made, which this government and I are personally investing in, for these large systems. Continuing and confirming these concerns about these major systems are precisely these changes. I want to remind here, for this payphone, that only since September have the privatisations of enterprises that have gone through the whole cycle or the whole restructuring process started. It's "Livnica" - Kikinda, "North" - Subotica, and now there are tenders for "First Five-year-old", "Hipol", "14th October", and they have been sold recently "Record", part "Javor", "Mitros", which has not worked for more than a year. These are all the results that are verifiable and that everyone less - you know about. More importantly, with these changes, we're just going to create a real chance of faster privatisation of these companies that have serious business problems. In several discussions, there were advocates for bankruptcy, application of the Law on bankruptcy and giving priority to the Law on Privatisation. I've already pointed out several times, and I'm really not giving it up – we need the Banking Act, we're going to have one final category, while the Privatisation Act will have its role and function until the privatisation is over. The bid for bankruptcy also coincides with the pawning of some others outside this country. We have simply taken over some of the elements of restructuring, i.e. the system of restructuring, the discharge of debt and the rest, and there are many elements of bankruptcy. It should be borne in mind that, in addition to this similarity and the methods present in both restructuring and bankruptcy, it should also be taken into account of the working-legal moment, that is, the moment where most people can be found on the street, while restructuring is one different process. In many discussions, it came from an unreal fact, as if in our economy, honey and milk, that in these companies everything flourishes, maltenes are all being kidnapped, unlimited prices in privatisation can be achieved. However, it is not clear, and that is precisely the case with Mr Todorovic, why he has not charged his claims so far (because he has come from a specific case), if that is exactly the situation he has previously characterized it. It was about privatization in agriculture, about land. What I'm trying to say here is that I have enough feelings for social and state problems, first of all, since most of that country is concentrated in Vojvodina. But even though I have a positive view of what's here for this speaker, I want to point out that here on the agenda is the Privatisation Act, not the Nationalization Law or something else. There was another discussion, for who knows which time, that one or that one should have been applied. I think from this model, if I want to be a little cynical, there's only one worse model, and that's to share it for free. A large number of the problems we have and have had are related to that period and that privatisation where the shares and shares were distributed free of charge. I don't want to remind you, but everything that was mentioned here at the pay phone, or to say the greatest number of problematic situations, or what was called affairs, and the question is how many affairs were, it was mostly in those cases. "Knjiz Milos," "C Market" and others, it's all privatized without talking about any other cases. Many problems arise precisely from that period and the kind of privatisation. The recapitalisation is not prohibited. We still have the possibility of foreign investment in our positive regulations today. But it's not privatisation. The capitalisation should be done when it comes to either greenfield investments or parts of plants that are not in operation and which are currently not used. About how many people are left out of work with this kind of privatisation, I just want to point out that enough time has been spent in illusions and that we shouldn't live in illusions, because many people who are employed are actually as if they aren't employed – they don't get personal income, they don't have jobs. What does that mean? That means all we have to do is live in illusions. No, that's enough of that. We need to make an efficient economy. We need to disburse the social operators completely, because the time has come for the state to take care of social welfare, not the company to take care of it. After all, if it weren't for that, there would probably be no growth of gross social product and industrial production in the last year at very significant percentages. There were a lot of questions about the audit, or control. I'd like to remind you and present some exact figures, so there's no error. From 1,500 to now privatised companies in 1,080 companies have been controlled, and in some times more. In 144 cases, decisions on the termination of the contract have been made, and in 24 cases so far these decisions have been confirmed by the court. Unfortunately, this big difference between 144 and 24 is a matter of speed and efficiency of judicial authorities. Also, in two or three discussions there were remarks about the participation of debtors in privatisation. I want to repeat, it is necessary to look at exactly how the text is written, where it is explicitly forbidden to the debtor, or explicitly said that he cannot participate in the privatisation. With the example of Travellers listed, I would just like to add that a bank guarantee has been activated, suggesting a rather significant punishment and retribution for those who were unconscious in such privatisation. If I told you, anyone who took part in such a privatisation and was activated by a guarantee of a few million euros, they wouldn't consider it a small or mild penalty. Payment at once – it is the best way to exclude the participation of workers in privatisation. We all know what position the workers are in, who make consortiums, who want to privatise the company. It has also been pointed out that we justify ourselves by bad regulations. I want to repeat here that I don't think these are bad regulations. I think it's a bad law on securities of value. These regulations have, like all other regulations, their weaknesses, and that's why we're here right now to try to increase their efficiency, to raise their quality. One particular example is about the Kickindian mill and my name, so I'd like to say that the Kickindian mill is privatized so, or bought by small shareholders. Small shareholders have sold their stock on the stock market, which is their legitimate right and it really has nothing to do with anyone on the side. Of course, there have been a lot of discussions here that are not very welcome to foreign and domestic investors, but that is probably what those who have said. I want to thank the representatives of the Serbian Radical Party who asked about Bor and the flag. It's my chance to tell my court and the evaluation of the work that has been accomplished so far. A year ago (I was still at the Ministry of Economic Relations with abroad) I accidentally went with a potential investor interested in Bor to the Privatisation Agency and saw that Bor was somewhere between or rather in heaven or on earth. It's not in restructuring, it's not what's going on, it's not having a financial advisor. It's just that nothing's happened. I've been running activities since the Ministry. There's been a decision on restructuring. I want to remind you of those events that happened when the highway was blocked. There were three demands. They asked for wages at the level of the republican average, to make a decision on restructuring and to secure investments, to open new copies, or to create a chance for further development. A republican average has been reached, a restructuring decision has been made and a loan has been secured. Of course, as soon as someone was provided with a loan, it bothered them – from whom he was provided, why he was provided, how he was provided. He was provided under commercial conditions from one who had an interest in investing in such a thing. Next, two months are already the "silent" board of directors and other factors. So, I've provided and helped with security, so those people in Boro know that, but someone who's "silent" still can't finish the job. As for the flag, nothing better. We had a situation at the flag where subsidies were going, where nothing else was going on. In July of the month, an agreement was reached with the Fiat exactly on the discharge of the debt, which means that what we're doing here when we're talking about the discharge of the debt, with the tendency to become a write-off, if it's successfully privatized, that this model is also known and taken over by the Law on Liabilities with us, and there is also in international economic law as a category. The same model was used with the Fiat. Seventy-two.5 percent parole is written off if we pay for the remaining 27.5 percent. That release becomes a write-off. Besides, it's not the most important part, but it was very important as initial, it was done a series of things when it comes to the flag. Internal debts have been settled and we came to that stage to begin the privatisation process in the flag. The first two parts were sold last week. Next month, exactly 14, there are four very important pieces at the auction, with over a thousand and some workers. So, the process is inescapable. We have a very big interest now, and for the first time, because after four years now foreign partners have become interested. There are two or three of them, but I've never been a fog dealer. My job is to create a chance for the flag. I don't want to give false illusions. I don't want to, for business reasons, mention what companies they are. Talks are very serious, studies are being prepared and their suggestions. So that's enough at this point. If that's what's going to happen, that's what we'll see. But I'm saying what was done from July to this day was crucial to the flag. At the very end, I don't want it to be seen as a replica, but I want to look back at something Mr. Albianic repeated two or three times, to be introduced to Europe by Mr. Labus. Appreciateing the work and what Mr. Labus is doing, I want to remind you -- I guess we're all doing something else, I guess our Prime Minister has done a lot of things to come up with a positive feasibility study. I guess there are other members besides Mr. Labus on the team, including me, who will negotiate with the EU. But I have often said that all those who are privatised, that all those companies that are already in the hands of the strategic partner are working according to some EU standards, standards and all the factors in this country in their own way, more or less, contribute to EU accession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-21-0.u13363	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We'll continue the session tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
