ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16741	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we continue the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 88 members of the Parliament. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 89 MPs are present in the hall, that is, more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Natasa Micic and Milojub Albianic. Since the National Assembly has completed a principle search on all points of the agenda of this session, we are moving to search in detail. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Judges (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Milan Marković, Sreto Perić, Milan Stevović, Vojislav Milajić and the Legislative Committee. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Before I give my word to the MP Zoran Krasic, one notice - at 10:30 a.m., the Legislative Committee, in the hall on the ground floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16742	Given that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges amends the provisions governing salaries in courts, that we have tried to regulate our amendments when it comes to this text of the Law, that the Government's representative explained during the principle debate that what the Government proposes is to regulate the area – since we have a completely different view of how to pay for the independence of a judicial budget, under the auspices of the Supreme Court of Serbia, that these amendments, as the Government says, could not create a space for improving personal incomes without creating a picture in the public of the Serbian Radical Party against pay increases, because the image was created in the media to regulate this law – on behalf of the SRS, I stress that we are withdrawing all amendments to the proposal of this law. But we are also asking the Government to urgently, in a completely different way, regulate this area of judicial independence in terms of forming a special judicial budget. That applies, not only to this amendment, but to the other two.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16743	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment submitted by MP Milan Stevovic was withdrawn to article 6. On Article 7 of the amendment, in the same text, are mid-national ambassadors Milan Markovic and Vojislav Milajic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Legislative Committee has submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Minister Stojkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16744	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, firstly to thank the Serbian Radical Party for the correct relationship, because we discussed it on the Committee. This was a transitional solution to finally be adopted by an emergency procedure and permanently edit this area. The strategy for judicial reform is exactly what it foresees, amendments under the first of those budget laws and the budget system, without it having no application of the Justice Act. In that sense, I thank you for the correctness, and the government has made a commitment to amend these key laws for an independent judiciary budget, do. As far as this change is concerned, we accept it so that we can ensure a timely increase in the salaries of judicial officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16745	Thank you. I find that the Government has accepted Amendment 10, which was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Since we have completed a search of the draft law in particular, does the proposing representative, Zoran Stojkovic, the justice minister, want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Public Prosecution (Speciality) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the bill: Milan Markovic, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Nemanja Sarović, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Zarko Obradović, as well as the Legislative Committee. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16746	Since this draft law is almost identical to that of the previous law, we withdraw these four amendments, which we have submitted to the draft law on the public prosecutor's office, and we hope that in this scope of the amendments to the rules, in the part of wages in the judicial bodies, both the courts and the prosecutors, and the Presidents of the courts and the Republic Public Prosecutor will have in mind and the moment that it is necessary to distinguish between the holders of the judicial functions of those who work and who should be stimulated by those who do not work and who do not need to be stimulated, but should go towards resolution if the conditions are met. So we're withdrawing these amendments, so you don't really get the wrong impression, because the media is saying big wages will be as soon as these laws are passed. So that we don't create a confusion with legal holders that only the SRS is against their high wages, we're not against their salaries, but that really distinguishes the grain from the weeds, and there seems to be a lot of mix between them and each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16747	I find that four amendments to the SRS have been withdrawn. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Mr Krasic's amendment to Article 2 has been withdrawn. National MP Zarko Obradovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment to the 3rd MP, Nemanje Sarovic, was withdrawn. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Milan Markovic and Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment, on the basis of Article 140(5), paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted by the Legislative Committee. Does anyone want a word? Minister of Justice, Mr. Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16748	Given the change in the transitional provision, the Government accepts this amendment, so that we can ensure an adequate increase in personal income.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16749	I find that the Government has accepted the amendment to Article 6. The Legislative Committee. After we have completed the search of the bill, in particular, does the representative of Proposer Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice, want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the third item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the High Council of Justice (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MP Milan Marković and the Legislative Committee on the Proposal of the Law. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. The Legislative Committee is, on the basis of Article 140(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, carried out a legal-technical editorial of the text called the Bill Proposal, which reads: the word – "amendment" is replaced by the word "amendment". Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16750	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, we believe that by eradicating Article 1 it is possible to introduce a supplement on the salary of judges, in the event of a rise in the cost of life, to preserve their independence in work. You know that even on previous amendments, we didn't want to answer because they were all directed in two directions – we don't agree to these changes and to supplement a set of judicial laws, because we think that this is the way two things are done. One of us is very controversial, which is, by empowering the minister to have some kind of veto, that it is necessary to agree on all those decisions made by the High Council of Justice, which concern material business. We pointed out in the debate on the Law itself that, regardless of certain powers arising from the Budget Law itself, (this is provided for in Article 17. The budget law, that the minister is the enforcer of an item relating to judicial authorities, regardless of which,) we believe that there is no standstill, if we are adherers to the independence of the judiciary, giving the minister of new powers which would concern his consent to the decisions of the High Council of Justice. You know that our position is that the judiciary budget should be independent. We hope that the budget for the coming year will see a different way of spending the funds from the position relating to the budget of the judicial authorities. We think these provisions go completely the other way. This is our first remark, which is foreseen by the previous amendments that the chairman has read. The second remark is, we also intervened with amendments that the chairman read a few minutes ago, to reduce the benefits of persons working in the Special Court and the Special Prosecutor's Office. In fact, we believe that there is a need for adequate motivation for those who will do jobs, or work on these very complex objects. If their motivation is not adequate, we can come into a situation that few who are ready or few who are high-quality are ready to deal with these items. Finally, this amendment that I just explained again is in line with our commitment to the territorial independence of the judiciary, which is the condition of the total independence of the judiciary, which I hope we all stand for here.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16751	National MP Milan Markovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16752	Therefore, the amendment (second) to Article 2 is the consequence of this amendment to Article 1. If you are kind enough to accept the amendment to Article 1 then it is also necessary to accept the amendment to Article 2. It's about the integrity of the solutions we're proposing.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16753	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 140(5), paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Does anyone want a word? Yes, Minister of Justice, Mr Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16754	Since it is also a transitional provision in this case, in order to enable the law to enter into force immediately, and the Government to make a valid request for an increase in the basis, we accept this amendment. I should also like to thank the MPs and give an answer regarding these objections to the amendment. The issue of judicial supplements was important when there were large inflations in 2003 and 2004, so it wanted to protect the minimum existence of the legal holder. There's no need for that today. What the previous speaker sees is that in those basic budget laws there is clearly a certain obligation of the ministry. There is another MP who has dropped to say: the budget's insolvency and budget payments are the responsibility of the finance minister. De facto this would be an exception to the basic provisions of the Budget and Budgetary System Act, which cannot be applied. This was also the reason why that Law on Judges could never be applied until now, because it had no elaborated scheme to apply it, so the Law on Salaries in State Authorities went. For these reasons, I agree, and that is what I said and came the way to appreciate Mr Krasic's reasons, that in any case we will do everything to bring an independent budget and that the judiciary functions as an authority that has its own independent budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16755	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search of the bill, in particular, does the representative of Proposer Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice, want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Judicial Taxes (single) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Marko Krstin, Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic, Natasa Jovanovic, Nemanja Sarović, Milovanovic, Goran Cvetanović, Dragoljub Stamenković, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Momir Marković, Mileta Poscurica, Igor Bečić, Dragan Colić, Veroljub Arsic, Darko Glisic, Vitomir Plužarević, Zlatan Jovanovic, Milan Stevović, Miljko Četrović, Tomislav Penezić, Rodoljub Gačević, Radiša Ilic, Ivan Radić, Zoran Antić, Vojislav Milajić, Aleksandar Djordjevic, Branislav Rankić, Nikola Todorović and Dragol Antasovski. National MP Marko Krstin, in writing and then at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration, withdrew the amendment to Article 11. It's a bill of law. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search in principle, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16756	Since I hope that the MPs are clear on what we have written these amendments and what we have covered with the amendments, for the sake of the public, I must say that we haven't touched our amendments those members of this bill that concern the terminology of this regulation with the regulations that have been amended in the meantime, and in particular the Law on Prosecution and Other Laws. We have neither touched what is an obligation under the Constitutional Charter regarding the division of jurisdiction and the judicial authorities. All our amendments, and there seems to be a lot of amendments, because the bill has 46 and 47 members, respectively, but I have to say that from 12 members to 40 and some member is completely unnecessary matter broken to members and that's under the headings. You could have treated them all practically as one member. I think it was much more correct to be treated as one member, not with 30 members to change the tariff items, which are the annexes of the Law. But now we're not going to a wider lab. The legislation gave you the consent to go like this, well, they probably figured that's how it should be. The basic remark we point out, and we are practically asking our amendments to delete these amendments to tariff items, tariff numbers, is that we really don't think there are any reasons to increase the court fees this much. For example, where there were 200 dinars, now it's 260, where there were 400 dinars, now it's 650. I think there's a 20 percent logic present. What's the point of justice? The justice is that from 2000 to today inflation has done its part, and that this law has not been changed in the meantime, and Mladjan Dinkic probably thinks it is lost to the substance, because he, as an economist, would have found a loss of substance. You can sigh all you want, but that's how it is. I have to repeat what I keep pointing out. The court fees are used to register the case, and they have some value, some amount, so that the party shows seriousness when speaking to the court by some means. The court fees are never a source of income from this importance to court fees from 2001 to today. They never have, if I can use these standards, the jargons of these experiments, these fiscal capacities. That's what some smart head came up with in 2001, so he says, "We're gonna raise taxes, and then people are gonna complain less." It's possible there may be some influence, but the disputes aren't settled. They're the others. Maybe the tax stopped someone from looking for protection from the court, and then where is he looking for protection? Did I take over the protection? I'm not supposed to invite anyone to take over their own protection, except for what's only legal aid allowed. The quality, among other things, of the judicial system in the territory of our country, not since 1990, but from some distant past, is that it is that it is possible for a citizen to turn to the court for protection under relatively benefited conditions, compared to Western European justice systems. There are two advantages: the first, which is addressed where the right place is, and the second advantage, which respects the state, which respects the procedure. In our regulations, there were no rigorous conditions for a citizen to appear as a party in the process. Believe me, today these taxes burden people in this amount. That the salaries were raised several times, and then something was accepted, but there's no excuse here. At a time of economic prosperity, statistically, at a time of great praise from the West, whether they are very large or not, it doesn't matter, but it's important that they are present in the media. At a time when companies close, at a time when the state fires workers. You're boasting that you've fired three thousand and a few people, indiscriminately. The 50-something-year-olds are released and people with 50-something years of party membership are admitted, and that's exactly parched by the ministries. It's known in the SPO store... So there may also come a lady with four grandchildren to simply dehydrated those who need to learn what to do and how to do, no, but she will be admitted to a place that is no longer like it. She could be two years younger. These are some of the processes that are happening with us. Add to all that the increase of these taxis, then make sure the SRS doesn't want to vote for that part, can't vote, because we don't see the basic reason why it would increase. I made a proposal in the principle debate, and some people took it as a joke. The best thing to do is to return the court fee to the form of a tax mark, to show just how much value it should be to run a dispute. You don't have any tax fees today, everything goes to some current bill with payments, so you have to pay commissions, you have to do this, you have to do it, you have to register it, etc. Return the tax stamps, determine the denomination structure according to the regulation in order to make it normal, must inevitably reduce that fee or at least keep them at the existing level. I don't want to talk about this amendment, which I've submitted, specifically, about which submission and how much to propose an increase, but the government needs to get that out of its head, court fees can't be that source of income from which the state, the judiciary, etc. would be funded. No, it's just some cash amount that allows the case to be recorded and to show that whoever signed the submission seriously meant by submitting that claim, that he had seriously turned to seeking protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16757	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16758	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, your motive for this bill is somewhat understood, because you are not a man who needs to handle finance in a direct, original way. You heard from Mr Krasic and when we talked in the principle debate, if any of your colleagues remembers, and I suppose you must, because it's part of your job, which we talked about 10 days ago when we talked about (this is the system according to the new Rules of Procedure) about this package of laws. We told you at that time that we cannot possibly justify an increase in any price for anything in the state of Serbia, at this time, when people are starving, when they are out of work and when they are unable to think about whether they will receive those back salaries and whether pensions will arrive and when, and now with a new reduction provided by Minister Lalovic in the way of calculating pensions. It is simply unacceptable and immoral, highly immoral, today in Serbia that anyone is seeking to increase the price of anything, especially when it comes to court fees, according to counterpart Krasic, who should help a Serbian citizen finish some work in a competent court. This amendment applies to the book, so the value is given from-to, from the lowest to the highest, where the increase in the court fee for such cases is (in Article 14.) projected by 30%. It is clear to me how these laws are written, when it comes to the view that there is no need to secure funds from the budget, in a formal and legal sense, it should stand with another law. Here it is a little bit degutant, because in the last position of the argument you say – yes, there is no need for additional funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget to implement this law, but it will also be useful in the budget, because it will be filled with these new court fees. It is now a question, first of all, for Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, since he is the one who manages public finances in our country, why he proposes to MPs through budget items side of income and side of expenditure, when it is indeed obvious that it is necessary to improve the working conditions and salaries of judicial employees. Why is it resorting to this method that began at the time of Djelic and Batic, and is not going to rationalise the existing means, or savings that he boasts of these days. If it is an incredibly large intervention since the entry into force of the value added tax and if the minister came out with the information that the apparent surplus in the Republic of Serbia's budget, if he announced that how many of these days, therefore, (businessly it is possible to do so and by interrupting this session, but you will probably go to when this is over) to determine the budget rebalance, against which the SRS will definitely be, but all of it, and that he has promised the holders of judicial functions to increase their salaries, that money should have been directed by budgetary rebalancing on the other side where a rationalisation was allegedly carried out, to focus savings there. In this way, you resort to something that is truly unacceptable to the citizens of Serbia, and this is the article 14 and the amendment that I have submitted. We're asking them to stay on this level. They are high, although in the nominal amount to you MPs may not seem to be some amount, but, believe me, these demands under Article 14 are most common, and for what? Because in every city where you live, in which I live, at least 50% (I can claim that in Kragujevac maybe 70 or 80%), objects are unrecorded. It is indeed one problem and an inheritance from a decades-old period that is now facing and which is the problem of every new local self-government. Let it be more efficient to solve it, let it not, and sometimes it doesn't depend on it. Of course, because things are intertwined from local self-government to the Republic, through competent courts, and disputes that are being conducted and so on. Therefore, not that it is not popular, but it is amazing that what the largest number of Serbian citizens are most interested in is that this process is resolved, a process that must be implemented for the next who knows how many years – to register what is theirs, regardless of the value, because it is prescribed here that it goes from the lowest to the highest, to increasing court fees. You have justified such a measure, or division, by the fact that taxes have not been increased for two years and that inflation is calculated. It's all relative to what inflation really is, because it's shown in the way the data processing is done by the Republic Bureau of Statistics. He does not consider that the cost of living and communals and electricity, which he has accumulated, (so there will be another shock), that there are other costs of living, not just bread, milk, meat per gram, as specified by that pattern for one average Serbian family. And you can see now that this reason cannot be accepted as a valid argument, because even public office holders who are in charge of public finances are not sure how much inflation will come by the end of this year. This cannot be the basis for taking the same measure from citizens, because if inflation is present in the country, they are not citizens who want to register their land and facilities guilty of it. Because they do not have an increased salary, a pension, a million of them have no job, and imagine just how many interested persons, citizens of Serbia, who want to register something, which are either with minimum pensions, (if these are people from our oldest population) or maybe they are farmers with the poorest agricultural pensions, which are not paid for over a year and a half. Now they need to come, to register something worth 5,000 dinars, and they need to come from their village, (the question is which is his jurisdictional court,) to go to the municipal court, say, from some Kragujevac or Chacan village; not only to come there and pay this fee, but to go, so he has to prepare himself for it, to ask for some legal help, to pay the costs to go there, so maybe he won't end up from the first time and all that when he gets together, you come to the fact that people don't have money and that it's impossible to ask for one single dinar more than citizens who don't have a place to pay. You know that old Serbian proverb that says nicely that, "he who has nothing on him can't even strip." Therefore, you can't ask citizens to arm themselves more than their leper, because it has fallen so low and the average population's monthly income in Serbia is so thin that it's gone below this. Wherever they live, in the city, in the village, there's no money. There's a generality here, and that's why we're very much against this bill and raising any tax on one single dinar, and here there are ranges of hundreds of dinars to several thousand.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16759	The word is made by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16760	I just want to make one comment in general, and it's about this amendment and all the other amendments. It refers to amendments to the Law on Court Taxes. It explains: "Being in line with the inflation rate, it is proposed to correct them in line with the rate of inflation in the past period." However, I think that court fees have always been determined against the value of the dispute before, and then they are at a certain percentage according to the value of the dispute, and now we are practically in a situation as if inflation only affected the value of the court tax, not at the same time the value of the dispute. So, this bill, in principle, when looked at on average refers to an increase of 30% and now we have an increase of 30% compared to the existing value of the dispute. In that sense, if inflation is already in place, it has affected all the prices, all the values that are expressed in money, so it has also affected the values of the dispute. If someone next time, due to inflation, would increase 30% again and 30% again, then we would be in a situation where one day the tax is equal to the value of the slow. Of course, this is just a vivid representation of what can happen if the fees move independently from moving those limits where the values are slow. Therefore, I think that the methodological approach of increasing the value of taxis is not good, because it violates this proportion of the value of slow and tax for, in this case, about 30%, but the perspective of this can continue to a greater percentage.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16761	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16762	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, compare this bill to a regulation relating to the registration of property rights when it comes to the cadastrian book. It is not harmonised, and the cadastar books, as public books, include the registration of property rights and the registration of property rights. So there is a significant difference between the Catastrian and the land books in our country and no alignment has been made. If both the catastra and the land book on the same legal matter and the same legal basis are going to ask for a book, you will see that the catastra does not comply with the law and on the other hand that circumstances require changes and additions, i.e. the increase of taxis is not justified in this amount for a number of reasons. This was discussed by Natasa Jovanovic and Zoran Krasic, the SRS MPs, who indicated that our citizens should exercise their rights before the court, but in this way they will be denied the right, because they will not be able to pay the enormously high fees required for submissions which are addressed before the court. In the proposal for this tax code, in heading 1. – before the courts of the general jurisdiction of the case, the opposition and the complaint are required to pay a fee of 1,300 dinars, and for the same and similar submissions and values if you address the trade court there is 2,600 dinars. It is not clear why there is a difference if it is a trade court and if it is a court of general jurisdiction. In my opinion, there should be a uniform fee if a citizen addresses a general court case if he submits a complaint, if he objectes, if he submits an appeal, that in that case there can be no difference between a trade court and a general court of jurisdiction. Again, up to 10,000 dinars of value, in heading 1, in the courts of general jurisdiction, is the tax of 1,300 dinars, and in the case of trade courts, 2,600. Why? There is no justification for this, nor is there any justification for paying more tax before trade courts than is the case with these courts of general jurisdiction. Again, to repeat that there is a big difference between the cataster and the land book when you address the right of ownership. In legal traffic, citizens have no other place to turn to regulate some of their fundamental rights, but to the court. That means, over the gift agreement, about the purchase, overa will, overa life support contract, filing a lawsuit on any basis, making an appeal, audit. So we don't think the circumstances have changed so much that this percentage of citizens would be forced to give. Imagine if the value of the slow is 100,000 dinars, owes someone 100,000 dinars, he should pay a fee of 6,500 dinars only on charges. In addition, if a citizen is brought into litigation and the court is not agile and valuable, and this case will last for years, this citizen will have to pay three times more than he should in real terms, especially if the hearings are postponed. When it comes to court fees, I note and repeat that the SRS believes that justice should be left with 100 per cent, not taken or directed into the Republic of Serbia's budget. Therefore, the judiciary budget must also be finally assured one day that the judicial authorities are financing from that budget and that no one is touching the budget on the side, nor the government, nor the finance minister, and that the influence must be given by the minister of justice in controlling the execution of this part of the bill in respect of court fees. So the SRS is against the increase, because there's no excuse for that. The citizens of Serbia have not been increased their salaries or pensions, and unfortunately, pensioners are being stripped and reduced, so they too have the right to turn to the court if they are to exercise their right. Taxes and taxes have also been increased. We don't think the circumstances have changed that could go with an increase in the court cabs. The SRS will not vote in favour of this proposal, but again, I underline that the SRS is again, again and again, and that is why the minister of justice and those who are wondering, those who have influence over the government, are forming a single judicial budget, but the court tax to remain in the courts, because this will thus improve the position of judges, prosecutors, as well as employees in the judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16763	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16764	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to this article, requesting that the proposed amendment be deleted for a number of reasons. It was unprincipled in the reasoning of this law that, in fact, it proposed an increase in the amount of court fees by 30% and was already on the rise,– "in view of inflation between 1 January 2002 and 1 January 2005 it was 41.71%". If you are already making an exclusive adjustment to inflation, if you wanted to bring court fees to the level at which they were on 1 January 2002, then why didn't you follow this amount that you're giving as an amount of inflation. It should remind you that on January 1st, 2002, when these new taxes were submitted by the Minister of Justice of the Republic of Serbia, Vladan Batic, that these fees were extremely large, that they increased I think from 5 to 15 times depending on the tariff items and that they were indeed a major blow to citizens' pockets. What you said, that only some inflation is done, is not true, and tells us the next position in the explanation where it says that, when it comes to the tax "in the process of discussing the legacy", it suggests "fivefold increase in the maximum court tax". It is obvious here that it is not a technical increase, but that certain provisions are being substantially changed and that you are changing the range of certain maximums in some different court proceedings. What should be the basic idea of leadership in this set and changing a set of judicial laws, in addition to some terminology changes related to the laws that we had previously on the agenda, were improving the material position of judges first, and then as you say, and employees in the judiciary. In this way, judges should get some minimum wage increases, but this would be only in nominal amount, because since 2002 and the bombing promises that judges will receive a salary of 1,000 marks (which at that time caused bitter public disfavor and salva protests and attacks on judges by courts) until the fulfillment of that promise, of course, never occurred. The judges received about 27,000 dinars then, the salaries in the previous three years and despite the inflation you say yourself that it was more than 40% have not been changed. The salaries that judges have at this time in Serbia, despite a large number of cases and the fact that a good part of the judge does his job fairly, have become miserable. This further led to the best personnel fleeing from the Serbian judiciary and practically, any judge who can handle himself in some other way, he does so – whether going to law school or otherwise. What is certain is that the judiciary is in a worse and worse position because of this way of working. In addition, you have done nothing to improve the material position of professional associates, and I will remind you that these are those who are practically one step away from the judges, so the expert associates with the judicial exam, some are doing seven, eight, and some more than ten years in that position. Their salaries at this point are about 16 to 17,000 dinars. You must admit that it is certainly not enough and that in this way you cannot plan the root changes and improve the situation in our judiciary. We have also heard that there are too many courts, that there are too many judges, but that they are not well distributed and that is correct; it cannot be expected that a judge who has 350 or 400 cases in work will be paid the same as a judge who has 30 or 40 cases in work. It is, unfortunately, a major problem that you have failed to resolve with this change yet, I repeat, seven judicial laws. There are certain ways to stimulate judges who have an increased number of cases in work, but if there are ten times the number of cases by judge from court to court, then you have to admit that this stimulation, which is incomparably smaller, will not be enough. What is also striking about these laws is that regardless of what you have said these laws will improve the material position of employees, out of seven laws by five, it is argued that no additional means are needed to implement these laws. I'm asking you, then, how on the basis of something you won't spare any larger resources, will you be able to fix the material position of your employees as much as you say. What is even more interesting is what it says in "Analysis of the Effect of the Law" although the law, according to your own recognition, will not contribute to improving the material position of particularly court employees, you say that applying the solutions proposed in this law will cause additional costs for citizens in the economy, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises, but will also contribute to the increase in revenues in the budget. That's what all of this is about. You, in this way, rather than through judicial authority, as a third, and should be an equal branch of government in Serbia, instead of thus providing citizens with judicial protection that should certainly not depend on a material position. You citizens who are poor enough in this way are trying to put extra weight on it, and I have to say that you're taking it back to the wrong place and cutting it down where it's getting the hit. You can't expect and ask those who turn to the court for some help, because their problems are not able to solve this in any other way, to first pay these increased fees. You know for yourself that it takes a day-to-day and despite what, when the previous laws were passed, you said that now the trials will be much more up-to-date – now it takes several months from the hearing to the hearing. You did not provide the proper quality and expeditivity of the trial. I think it's extremely hypocritical to say, here's one more time we're going to raise the fees, and then it's going to improve the quality of the trial. Give you of these revenues from the budget to improve the material position but all employees in the judiciary, not just the judge. And then when you increase their interest in work, and the urgency and quality of the trial, then, eventually, you will be able to ask the citizens to treat these courts in some other way. For all this, I suggest you accept this and other amendments to the SRS and thus contribute to improving the situation in our judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16765	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16766	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 17. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Court Taxes, because we in the SRS are in principle not to increase court fees, as proposed by this law. What I, as an MP of the SRS, is particularly irritated by the fact that it is in the light of the bill's proposal for reasons for the adoption of this law – that court fees are increased due to inflation, so it is proposed that their correction be carried out in accordance with the inflation rate. Given that, in the article on which I submitted the amendment, an increase in the court fee is estimated to be approximately 25%, and the explanation states that it should be on average by about 30%, which is fine, however, what is wrong, which bothers me, irritates me, as an SRS MP?- I'm sorry. It is that many government members (in political performances, in performances explaining their activities in their portfolios in the government of the Republic of Serbia, often, not everyone, and in this, as a representative of this proposal by the Government of the Republic of Serbia before the National Assembly, Mr. Justice Minister Zoran Stojkovic, do not mean him, but many members of the government), many ministers can say that they are very successful in exercising power, that they are very successful in ruling Serbia. It states as a justification that the inflation rate was 1-2% over a given period, etc. And here we're talking about 25% in a few years. That can't be true and it doesn't match that statistical data. Of course, it can be smaller or larger, I mean inflation, but it can't possibly be an excuse and a reason to pass this law and increase court fees. What are the essential reasons? The reasons are, above all, economic. We all in Parliament know, especially the lawyers, that in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, taxes are said to be paid by the taxpayer country in relation to its economic strength. What is the economic strength of a citizen, a person, a natural or legal person, who pays an adequate increase in court fees? Is this an economic justification for the existence of production, stable production, not to mention increased production? Is it possible here that citizens are getting worse, that the standard of citizens is getting smaller and smaller? The state is impoverishing in various ways. I will only mention illegal privatisation, where several years ago there has been a robbery of state property through the illegal privatisation of "sugars" in Serbia, "cementara" in Serbia, "sugar factories in Nis", "sugar factories in Vranja", "Knjiz Milos" and many businesses. If it wasn't for that, the state would be richer. Citizens would have a higher standard. There would be no reason to file a bill to increase court fees. The only justification for the government, the Ministry of Justice, and also Mr. Minister of Justice Zoran Stojkovic, is the possible increase in the salary of judges, i.e. all the employees of the judiciary – both the judges and the public prosecutor's office That, in the SRS aspect, can be acceptable. Of course it's justified to increase the salary of all the employees in the judiciary, but not this way. I've already mentioned the anomalies that exist in our country and in our society. The increase in wages, earnings, anyone working in the state, including those in the judiciary, is conditioned by an increase in production, legal and market privatisation, the rationalisation of costs in general, and public expenditure, and other ways and other aspects. Then, by eliminating the construction mafia. Why are we closing our eyes in the existence of a highly-expressive mafia in construction, a group of people who are impoverishing the state and preventing the creation of excess values, or certain values in the interests of the state, of the citizens of Serbia. They create values, but only for their own pocket. I'll give you an example, so you don't think we're talking, we know something casual, and we don't mention anything in particular. At the Hotel "Moscow" – a plateau, there is something to do, at the same time you know who works there – the small collective company, it is the firm with which Mladjan Dinkic is closely connected. The small collective company, off the Shore Company, whose headquarters is on the Virgin Islands. Someone can say, it's all legal. All right, it's legal. But if this company is related to Vuk Hamovic, Vojin Lazarevic, who, thanks to many people in the current government, have also been linked to the previous members of the government of the previous regime, have, thanks to the many people in the current government, come to a large amount of funds, through state money and through the National Savings Bank?- I'm sorry. So, once in a general state robbery, that money, which is not earned legally, would be invested in construction buildings, like the one in the park on the plateau outside the Hotel "Moscow". On the other hand, we have citizens who are poorly living, where there is a high degree of economic crisis and social misery and we are looking for an increase in court taxis unwarrantedly. These court fees may not be large, but if a citizen, on the one hand, pays a large debt, large taxes to the state for social security, pension and disability insurance, health insurance, various types of tax, farmers – large taxes are paid for disposal. I ask you, gentlemen, how far back is that -- a month and a half, two months? We had heavy rains and rains in Serbia; there was an outflow of many rivers and streams that caused great damage to many citizens in the Republic of Serbia. You can't see the effect of paying those taxes. It stands only in security for many years back, as it is now, after these elementary disasters. The effect and benefits of paying these taxes do not exist. Let's do something to make him rational and justifiable. Not yet. He now has an excuse for the existence of a number of workers, civil servants, and nothing more. In this particular case, in tariff number 9, on which I submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, an increase in the court fee of 500 to 650 dinars for the assembly of the court will and international will, and in the position (2), is required for the return of the court's will to custody, instead of 150 to 195 dinars. I'm going to link up some of the latest political developments, so I'm going to point out that Natasa Kandic, president or executive director of a non-governmental organisation, is the Humanitarian Law Fund. The question is, where's the funding coming from? We all know that it's funded by someone from America and the Western countries. Given that this is such an act, where it can be connected to personal properties, I wonder whether it will include Mrs. Natasa Kandic when she goes to prison for harming the state, many citizens of the state, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, SRS deputy president, all members of the SRS, radicals, sympathisers, due to false news spreads and slanders about certain existing or non-existent events, I don't know, which are not related to Tomislav Nikolic and the people she indicates they have done something that they shouldn't have done.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16767	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16768	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, I address all the MPs and those who are in the hall, and those who are in the hallway, and those who are in the elevator, and those who are in the restaurant, and those who are on the street, because they did not go out to take a walk and buy something, but went out to listen to what the broad masses say, and of course, I am talking to the citizens of Serbia. The amendments to the Rules of Procedure have made the "democracy" you introduced in 2001, and now it is 2005. It seems to me that the Rules of Procedure was worse than the Rules of Procedure that Natasa Micic was working on, and now he can be a messenger at home, and in his mind to be with us, making quorum. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, until four or five months ago, we have fiercely criticised those who voted from Bodrum, Thessaloniki. With these rules of procedure, we allow them not to attend at all, not to be in the congregation at all, but to work at the same time in the congregation. I have submitted the amendment, on behalf of the SRS Parliament Club, to article 21, and I request that the member be deleted. The amendment refers to an increase in court fees, above all, for enrolment in land books, for the print-out of land books and for premises in land books. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the fact is that like other structures, but primarily the judiciary, lives in very, very bad conditions. In the judiciary, salaries are extremely low compared to salaries, for example, those who are represented as MPs; and today they listen in the street to what the people think, and they need to increase the jurisdiction of judges, prosecutors and judicial employees. However, taxes are not done, for on the one hand, you take from those who do not have to give to those who do not either. On the other hand, we in the state have ministries that boast that they do an extremely nice job. Mr Dinkic said he has achieved a fiscal surplus, I don't know how many large figures?- I'm sorry. I propose that the re-distribution of the mandatory judiciary be raised and available and provided with the means to work; allow normal work for judges and prosecutors and all employees in the judiciary, but not to take these money from those who do not otherwise, because in this set of laws, which we are now adopting, there is a Law on Labour that severely deprives employees' rights, there is a Law on Pension Insurance, which is also severely influencing pensioners' and future pensioners' rights. Agriculture and farmers will have to pay this increased tax because they too have a job with land and book departments is literally reduced to a beggar stick thanks to experiments, experts, the minister of agriculture. Today, the whole end of Serbia literally lives on raspberries. I'm talking about the Aryan, the pleasure, the royal end, the Wallean area, where they lived for a moment to start harvesting raspberries, to get those raspberries killed, and those who deal with raspberries know how much work it is and that, possibly, they live half a year or nine months. Today, raspberries are bought at the price of 60 dinars, and two years ago the price was 60 dinars. Look at your inflation, the cost of your life! Don't listen to what Dinkic says is what inflation is, but look what it cost two years ago from that basket that we have to bring into the house every month, so see how much it costs now. You will literally exhaust the last atoms of the financial force from Serbian citizens. So I suggest that in the day of voting you raise your hand and that this amendment of mine, as well as all amendments to the SRS parliamentary groups, be adopted, and that the funds necessary in the judiciary be provided by the Minister of Finance or, if not, put the tambourine on his back and let him play, it seems to be better off.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16769	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milet Poscurica submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Milet Pocurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16770	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course we have submitted an amendment asking for article 22 to be deleted. The reason is simple, it is the same as for these amendments that we have endured so far – we think it would be more correct and correct to have more time to more thoroughly analyse even all these tax provisions that stand by a few dozen members in the basic text of the Law (starting from 12-13 of the Amendments proposal). I don't think it's right to find out about the agenda and the chance to create and create amendments, we'll be there in less than 24 hours. That's the opposite of article 84 and article 85. The Rules of Procedure, which says that, exceptionally, the President of the National Assembly can create the agenda of the session, but in circumstances where such reasons need to be clearly explained. However, the exception, which is indeed an exception, is becoming a manners and becoming a rule. (In fact, these 45 items of the agenda represent a manner of imposing work on the Assembly by points that, in agreement with the Government and the National Assembly president, are placed on MPs, with very little time to get into more detailed analysis. We managed to do a short briefing like this to intervene in this law, against whom we are globally, because it's about increasing taxis, increasing prices. Although Article 11 states that only 10% of the revenues from taxis, so 60%, will be paid to judicial authorities, judges and other court officials, in order to improve their material position, we think it is more rational to check their salary levels. On the B-92 radio, the minister himself spoke of wages being rather envious of the averages of judges of general jurisdiction, in special courts even over 100, 150 thousand and something, it would be some new or expected salary. Compared to a specialist doctor, it's twice as much as a doctor with 7-8 years of work experience. So, you shouldn't, not even from this pay phone, polarize what's more important, what's socially more acceptable, what's more justified or finally what's important to do in order to reduce corruption. When we take a closer look at both the judiciary and the health care and the education, it's again, somehow, to corruption of a different rank. The weight of corruption is difficult to weigh. It may be more difficult for an ineffective medical service, but for a poor assessment of the verdict – to make the culprit a winner and so on, it's a big risk. We really shouldn't even be talking, because radicals are in principle not against pay increases, they should pay everyone to be good. It doesn't even make sense that these salaries are too high. I'm talking about a real discrepancy, that a resolute minister for the health care center, (here's a close subject) really doesn't care about the status of health workers. Can't a specialist doctor with seven or eight years of internship that doesn't even have 30,000 dinars. You know how much there is and if you want quantitative schools more or less. What does this Article 22 refer to? These are various notes, notes, besides all that is regularly addressed to the court by the party, the application, appeal, lawsuits and so on, the delay of the deadlines, all of which were raised by at least 30% compared to the previous version of the law, i.e. the previous legal solution that was offered. Therefore, such raising of levels and additional taxation of citizens, even if it was thought that it might not be a reason to give up citizens to exercise their rights, it may still be considered the fact, and the effect may be achieved. The question is, how good is this effect, how much money does it take to prevent someone from exercising their right, how effective the courts are, or how effective they are, or how effective they will be, if wages are increased, the efficiency will be regulated. The explanation that the salaries themselves will increase and it is not so drunk and it is not so instructed. This is not the category of the most threatened or threatened budget recipients, those who make their salary out of the budget. In this way they are only being further stimulated; some of them are left with these taxis. Indeed, the fact that taxes really for every demand here are numbered and increased by (one) 30% is reality and it was, and now only the items have gone up. However, the second question is raised, because where an estimate of the value for which the actual value of the item, which is the subject of the dispute, is left with that variant to make a free estimate, and there is also the possibility of a lower tariff, that the value is not assessed at any time, but that the tariff is applied below, which is only 390 dinars in this case. In this article for a note, a note, a note, a note, a note and so on, that it is a game of words that is not very close to me, but I still know what this article is about. So we remain on the point that if you are working on an increase in wages, that's how the work of the judiciary authorities is stimulated, that should be an equivalent that should be applied. I generally take, for all those budget users, not only segmentally single out that the ministries stand out according to their ability as they are able to make their subordinated conditionalally possible and higher incomes possible. We are witnessing that our judiciary is not effective enough and does not work well enough. Apparently, the estimates of Olaf and other international organisations, finally and the ruling majority recognise such assessments, are at the top of the scale of corrupt structures and only the judiciary. Of course, no matter how much pay increases, if we don't have a moral and honorable one in the judiciary, (and we'll see about the appointment, there'll be stories about it when it's spoken of) that it won't help us, no matter how much pay comes to order – that honor and moral people come to the surface, moral judges. One of the reasons in Article 11 is that the increase in taxis will be used to improve the material status of judicial employees, I don't think it's correct, not drinking at all. A long time ago, back in 2000, somehow the first plan turned out to be the judiciary, adjusted salaries with enormous, for those opportunities, 1,000 euros; and they complained that it had not been achieved. So they were all series of material and technical signs from different donations on the side, equipment, computers, shared cars. Education, health care is significantly lagging behind this budget user or for these people employed, represented by the minister concerned. So, if we're already moving in such a variant of the improvement of thestatus, I'm not against the fact that judges are actually better off working for bigger wages. But certainly, when budgets are being used, it should not be forgotten for other structures and other employees, budget users who have improved material status are fundamental and that we should go with the same logic – that it may also reduce their ability to take the pathways of corruption, bribes, no respect for the workplace, rules of conduct at the workplace and so on, which, of course, the legislator had in mind, and not only the fact that the increase of taxis would improve Dinkic's budget or cabs that would improve the material situation in the judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16771	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16772	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems that, at the request of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is all good for Serbian citizens to live well, that the standard is good, that they have no problems, that the situation in the Serbian judiciary is without problems, that there is no crime, that there is no corruption, that there is no bribes. The only problem to resolve the government of the Republic of Serbia is to raise taxes to citizens, and they have almost nothing increased, nor tolls, no increased electricity prices, no reduced pensions, and now they will be very glad by this intensity, this intention by the government of the Republic of Serbia to increase the prices of court fees. The motivation to submit amendments, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, is that this Article 24 is deleted for one single reason that nothing good will do to the citizens of Serbia, precisely for the reasons I have stated; that the standard of citizens of Serbia as a result of this way and the method of work of the government of the Republic of Serbia only increases the well-known conditions of the major economic crisis and social misery. Will the citizens of Serbia and how to react to this only they know, but in any case there is absolutely no serious justification for increasing the court's fees. So the court fees should not at any time be due to any motive to be the source of income. Is that how you want to reduce the number of court disputes? If this is the desire of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the concept is not good and is not in the interest of either the judiciary in Serbia or the citizens of Serbia. Perhaps this is the intensity of Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, a well-known cantator, guitarists and fluters, who probably has a desire to do evil to Serbian citizens in this way. There are many problems in the Serbian judiciary, and instead of solving them, that the judicial authorities act rationally, seriously, successfully, to do more important jobs, more important problems to solve, now we have nothing else to do but the problems of the court taxis. Serbian citizens are exposed to new commitments and new expenditures. It is certain that SRS MPs are putting objections to this, trying to defend Serbian citizens from a new gathering, from a new commission, from a new harasser, but I fear it is not only a voice in the desert and that this assembly, which the government of the Republic of Serbia has already put under its control, has no other interest, no other motives, but that, by some intruding vote, everything that the Government of the Republic of Serbia proposes before it. I am fully convinced that Mr. Stojkovic is not now at all pleasant to be in a position to defend some rational reasons from increasing the price of taxis, because as a minister of justice he knows that citizens live in conditions of major economic crisis and social misery, that they have no money or for elemental needs. It is not easy for him to go to the congregation and say that it is normal and logical without feeling any discomfort or discomfort within him. Such work is the characteristics and characteristics of the government of the Republic of Serbia, whose actions, unfortunately, Serbian citizens suffer greatly. As an SRS MP, I do not have the illusion that the parliamentary majority will accept this amendment, but here you are saying that you will not, you do not have to, increase the burdens, harrass, taxes, do whatever you want, the citizens of Serbia who are watching this transmission have the opportunity to see that the SRS Group is in favour of their interests, and not for what you are fighting for, and what you are doing, it is largely against the citizens! Are you that autistic, are you talking to people, are you listening to their objections, their causes of dissatisfaction, or is it something else that leads you this way? But it seems that your future is neither a bit pink nor a chance on Serbia's political scene. I'm sure you'll be punished at first choirs, if there are soon to be, while the SRS with optimism can expect everything in the coming days.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16773	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Darko Glisic. Before that, just to inform the MPs, the Committee on Gender Equality has now scheduled a session for Monday, July 4, 2005, starting at 12:00 p.m., in a small hall of the National Assembly. This is a presentation of the relevant results of exploring the positions of the electoral body in the Republic, the role and role of the Committee on Gender Equality in the European Union's parliaments, an example of successful practice. It's the agenda. So, 12:00 in the small room.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16774	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, by amendment to Article 26, as well as previous colleagues from the SRS parliamentary club, I suggest that article 26 be deleted. Article 26 covers heading 20 and its two positions, which are in the proposal tabled by Minister Stojkovic. Taxes are scheduled to increase by a certain amount of money. As colleagues pointed out, the SRS is generally against increasing these taxes, because we believe that the budget should be filled with production rather than by increasing the burden and taxi. What everyone also expects is likely to be the fruit of such an increase in taxis will also be an increase in the salaries of judicial officials and prosecutors. I expect the Justice Minister, the High Council of Justice, to exercise more rigorous control of how some judges work, especially how some prosecutors do. Whether or not some items are held in drawers and thus justify those funds, which are likely to be defined in such a way as to increase their wages. What I will also point to and ask the minister is about working conditions. I'm just asking you, Mr. Minister, Mr. Stojkovic, I'd like to speak to you for a few seconds, so, Mr. Minister, it's about working conditions. [[Minister sits there and doesn't hear me]] I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that the U.B.A. courts have very difficult working conditions, and probably soon a delegation of these judges will come to help them. It's a new building of the MUP, or the department of the Ubo, and they're working in an assembly barracks, through it the wind is blowing, there's a lot of things going on from rodents to I don't know what, there's very bad conditions for work, especially in winter, because it's impossible to heat it up. If there is a possibility that with the Minister of the Interior you can make some kind of arrangement that in that building, which will really look very good, you can define a place where judges could do their job, because they have a lot of work to do. They work very hard and hard, in the conditions in which they work, where several judges are in one office, it is really impossible to process two or three cases in the same room. I expect that you will find yourself here in the hands of these people and will help them get adequate working conditions, with what I just pointed out, that through one more rigorous control you will check all judges, prosecutors, so if their wages are increased, that indeed their responsibility is maximum and that they respect the provisions of the laws under which they operate. In the end, Mr Markovic, one proposal to you – that we hold future sessions of the Assembly in one of the offices, since with all the benefits brought by the Rules of Procedure, there is no need to take this great hall. You can even betray her; maybe some excursions to bring, and we can meet in one room, because MPs are paid 100,000 dinars not to do anything, not to enter the O.R. I respect what some MPs have been there all day, to the greatest extent SRS MPs, and now there are more of them than all the others combined. So, my suggestion to you is not to let this room be so empty, that they do it in a smaller room, and you can leave this one for some excursions.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16775	Thank you. I'm sorry, it must be done by law, not by law, but I understand your coercion. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16776	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 31 as a Serbian Radical Party in order to delete this Article 31, for the reason that this problem in the tariff sense should have been regulated by one member, not that this tariff system of these administrative fees should be broken down by members, or by item. In Article 31, there is an increase of taxis from 500 to 650 dinars and in section (2), (3) and (4) from 300 to 390 dinars. In general, we, as the Serbian Radical Party, are against this kind of increase, and we believe that it is not in line with the social opportunities that are in Serbia today. With this law, we want to make unnecessary tariff items a single member. There is no reason to increase these fees this much, and here we have a comment: that this amount should not be greater than 20%. That would be some real size. The court fees are used to record the case and thus create an act of seriousness of a particular case, not to give court fees fiscal capacity, i.e. to fill the budget. These taxes are a burden to the citizens. They represent a kind of robbery. This kind of robbery should be legalized by this law on court fees. The ratio of 60 to 40 is very unprincipled, and I also commented that it should not have a fiscal interest, but would return these taxes to me, or we want them to have a ratio of tax stamps, means to turn all of this into tax stamps. Maybe you don't like it at first sight, but that's what we think. These fees should not lay the foundations of our judiciary in financial terms, because citizens are barely putting an end to the end, and it is not true that these fees will reduce the number of cases in court proceedings. Serbia's environment is in such a state that citizens are barely making ends meet. No one can afford minimum existential conditions, except for a certain number of citizens. The number of citizens is privileged and is mainly in the ruling structures of this new DOS. They hire their friends, relatives, and who knows who, and all others who are on a neutral or otherwise side, are inadequate, or are not ready and able to perform such tasks and obligations. You don't mean to establish these court fees and direct our judiciary towards European integration. And you see for yourself that this Europe will neither comment nor mention us in any of their comments as – we will receive you, do whatever is necessary, so when you are done, come to us. That's not gonna happen. That's the policy of the world now, which I hope you all keep awake and quality. Probably not these taxes will affect these billboards that remind us of one-sided victims from past wars. If there were any Serb victims there, those billboards would remind us of war-squawking, hate speech, and who knows what, like this, it's supposed to be okay! So that 40% of the administrative taxis will not be used through the budget to highlight these reminders. We believe that funding of courts should be regulated in a different way and that funding should not only be directed towards one group of judicial employees, but rather that funding is accompanied by all the employees in this area.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16777	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Milan Stevović submitted to Article 34 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Penezic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Anyone else want a word? The word has the People's MP Tomislav Penezic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16778	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, visibly indisposed to all the events on the media, printed and written, I'm afraid I'm going to use some big word here and I'm going to get a warning, but I'm going to take care of it, I'm going to be self-disciplined. It's just that I'm pretty emotionally affected by lies from television. Don't remind me, I rarely go out, so I'll take advantage of the introduction. When I forget Natasa Kandic then Biljana Vuco comes, so I forget her comes a title in the paper – Eight NGOs propose; even women in black for the Nobel Peace Prize. It looks like they're racing who's gonna be more satanicizing Serbs, and then, in my opinion, they should get that prize first of Westly Clark, then Ali Izetbegovic, and then Tudjman and then the NGO. I'm sorry about the dyspression. As for these court taxis and Article 36, you know it says "wipes." My colleagues have spoken in general, and I'd just like to quote the reason for that attitude to be erased. "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is obviously in office of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore the session of the National Assembly is set against the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, in order to prevent MPs from submitting amendments and informing the public of Serbia through reason," etc. "Citizens have long been detached through various accusations and the government has been obliged to provide adequate earnings for all judicial employees." Now I'm going to say that that's about an increase, and the minister knows that, on average, 30%. Some spoke 20%, but I calculated 30%. I don't mind paying judges to increase, and I'm not against paying everyone, if that's possible, but I'm suspicious that the money, 30% of the increase, will go to the right place. That's what my colleagues used to say. He'll go into the budget, and out of the budget, who knows where he'll sail. I'm about to, say, in education, where I come from, pay is much less, and education is one step ahead of the court, that they might need to raise their salaries, because if they, as an educational-experienced institution, educate the right people, then the judiciary will have less to do. Educational workers will not be forced to go on vacation, instead of preparing for the correctional exams, family visits to Ariel to pick up raspberries. I'm talking about Pribo. Furthermore, workers are in a difficult position in the industry. I often resent not mentioning the industry from my place, so this time I'll mention it's FAP, but I don't know what's going to happen to me. Everyone's deaf about it, the workers are fired, there's no pay, and if there are, then they're minimal. Therefore, it is necessary to give everyone a salary, at least linearly equalise, including us, as well as the workers, as suggested by Dr Vojislav Seselj, for a time, but it was not accepted. Whenever I went out for this pay phone and talked about something useful for any end, whether it's Pryboy, Kragujevac or Belgrade, I came across a sharp criticism and in this case I have to mention one color, and they call themselves "yellow". I was talking about nuclear waste, talking about a tunnel where nuclear waste is stored. The president of the Pryboy municipality, and "yellow," he said on local television that I was pushing some kind of bear down the tunnel. It would be good for that same president to say: the word is, the people suspect, to be questioned, I am the first among the equal and to join the MP of the SRS, regardless of what we do for the people. If I push the bear, I won't push her down the tunnels, I'll drive her to local self-government, and there'll be a big bear, and there's a small place. Furthermore, I was talking about the release of the lake, because the Pribojs support themselves from fishing and tourism, hunting, fishing, nautical and Banjski. The lake is being released, and Pryboy is running out of fish, i.e. no animal world or fauna. No matter what I've spoken to four ministers here, there's now a minister who has nothing to do with it, but I ask you to find an opportunity to stop that extinction of the fish, because the people live on that fish, eat that fish, sell something, somehow manage, and they will destroy not only the lake, but further down towards Rudo in Republika Srpska. It threatens to come out of Republika Srpska and block the railway in Strpci, a random coincidence of Strpce, because it's their territory, but you know very well that much has been said about it. So the Smurfs are other territories of another country, and they have the right to stop, to block the railroad and to stop the trains now in season, precisely because of the lake's release. I ask you, that through other ministers, and also as minister of justice, you may either order it or make a deal or give them a suggestion not to, because they do bad things to the people. When they came to Priboj for the local elections, and the local elections were before these in all of Serbia, they all came, the gentleman came, let me call him, Mr Tadic, came to Banja and saw Banja, promised Banja roads and none of it. He comes in Mihajlović, he goes down by helicopter, doubts Priboj and says: "I can't eat, there's something not so sure; so he brought his waiters, so he brought his sheets, he brought his eschew, his food, so they made a first taste, tried it, so if they poison themselves so he doesn't take it, promise roads and everything, promise peace, promise peace and none of it. Here, in the last session, I was talking about being set up, like, lying cops down in town, and they made fun of me, they say, it's a regional road. Yesterday, unfortunately, gentlemen, I was, let his glory be, at the funeral of a 15-year-old, son of his colleague, who died right where they took off a lying cop, and where I set him up and installed him. I'm sorry about the depression, this is a little emotional, at first I said I might speak a little more emotionally. I hope I didn't use those sharp words I had in mind, and when it's time, I'll use them. It doesn't answer, he says, for a public spoken word. They'll criticise me, but criticise me, I'll push out what lies inside of me and stay clean as a man and clean as a Serbian radical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16779	Thank you, Mr. Penezie. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Rodoljub Gačević. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Rodoljub Gačević has the word. Here you go. At the same time, once again, I thank all those who pointed out that for this session, which has an enormous number of points, the government only gave those laws that were over two months in the procedure, however, I thank all those who pointed out that the president extended the deadline for receiving amendments so that MPs could make amendments in time and now we have this number of amendments. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Pantyhose.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16780	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is one of the further forms of looting citizens through various forms of procedure such as these fees, so that the government is used according to one folk logic, "first of all the castles, grains of cakes". It's true when you look at it like this, at least a little tax, a little tax and a little fund, or cashiers will be charged. When viewed from the logic of citizens, a little bit is taken over taxes, a little is robbed over VAT, a little is taken over taxes, a little over cuts, and there is no more where to give people, no more money, and they can't stand so-called. "insinuation on the fairies." It's one in a series of forms of looting citizens through little things, but those little things are a lot. And if this was just a little thing, no matter how small it might be, maybe it could be held out somehow. However, when viewed from the aspect of a series of such small things, citizens no longer have a place to give. The others, as they say, are naked skins. As for the Ministry, let the Ministry of Finance provide funds for the judiciary, for the financing of the judiciary, etc. It doesn't have to mean that only through these taxis will these funds be provided. There is from where it can be found; of those who are many, of those who are chasing criminals, as well as from corruption and the solving of the problem of bribes, a series of negativity and phenomena in this society. Well, if the judiciary solves these cases, i.e. the judiciary and if there is any part of it, only a part of it will have the means not only to fund the judiciary, or the judiciary, but also to finance many other social activities, forms, etc. It used to be logical that the judiciary, if there was any greater personal income, that it would be more honorable, that it would work better, that it would be less corrupt, there would be less bribery, etc. It was logical when he was Batic, but time has shown that that logic cannot survive. No matter which way personal incomes were tried to increase, and for which I have no objection and to increase as anywhere, personal incomes in all forms and activities, all officials, people, citizens, etc., so that personal incomes are increased in the judiciary as well. However, it is not possible to obtain a more honorable judiciary since the judiciary will be better paid through personal incomes, so it will be more honorable in these decisions and resolving these cases. I know it's not the same as being a judge when he's being tried for high-ranking crime and criminals, which would say, higher rank, because it's more of a threat to the judge for his personal safety, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, in a year, two, five, ten, it doesn't matter when, as for his family members, and it's not the same to be a judge for such cases in some property-law disputes. Judges must be brave and must be honest and honorable people, so that they accept such a determination and a challenge like this. Thus, this solution is not an example of how it should be handled, by means of certain duties and by taxis. I also had a case from my own practice, when it was the last local elections, that judges should not have dared to rule, that is, to execute a new election, to re-election and repeat elections in some election units, or polling stations, but rather to transfer it to a neighbouring municipality, because they had an explanation, like, rich, so that they wouldn't mind their neighbours and friends, etc., and in fact it was a cowardice and fear. Therefore, it should also be borne in mind when the choice of judges is made, as we choose judges, not only by knowledge, expertise, etc., but also by honor and other qualities, and even by how brave he is, to deal with such challenges and problems and cases. Perhaps this means planned by taxis would be aimed at improving, or increasing personal incomes for judges, as it is said here: "because the funds from taxis are used, among other things, to improve the material position and conditions of the work of judges and employees in judicial authorities, so that the passing of laws by emergency procedure would result in adverse consequences for the work of these authorities". I don't see any reason that it's exactly in this same logic, that this should be accepted and that this is the right explanation for the installation of such a mechanism, or for the installation of high fees for court fees, and when it comes to, above all, these cases. I believe that, through the resolution of crime throughout society in cases like before, and they are just showing that, let's say, when Batić's law was, the increase in personal income in the judiciary did not prove to be devoid – that it would reduce criminality in society, it has already proved, in addition, that it was a high percentage of crime, primarily corruption and bribery in the judiciary, that this went hand in increasing crime throughout society. It didn't contribute to the increase of the judges' salaries, the judge will be less corrupt or not at all corrupt, it's not that, it might have a reflection on some material side somewhere. However, it will not be a criterion and will not be able to address this negative phenomenon in society. First of all, it must be solved in other ways, by getting more honorable judges, more responsible judges, above all by increasing the responsibility of judges. If we cannot, in some way, only materially improve the material position through stimulation, through personal income, then let us try other forms, i.e. seeking greater responsibility and tightening responsibility, above all by the judges, who are one of the most responsible professions in this society. If we think we're solving a reduction in crime in the country, people, first of all we need to reduce bribery and corruption in the judiciary, then we're going to solve crime in society. I can responsibly argue and say that by increasing the salary, or material position of the judges, a more honorable judge will not be produced in this way, or money will not produce a more responsible judiciary and more honorable judges.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16781	Thank you, Mr. Pantyhose. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16782	On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 38 proposing that this member be deleted. In particular, this Article 38 refers to the amount of fees for the copying of court acts and documents of the collection of documents, amounting to 13 dinars per page, while the fee earlier was 10 dinars. This is only one in a series of increased fees and fees for Serbian citizens, which concern the judiciary. Since people today are out of work, not receiving salaries, not having enough to live normally, and being forced to seek justice in court, it will become difficult for them to do so. These days, electricity, tolls are being collected, prices for oil derivatives are expected to rise, and the state administration, therefore, the judiciary, is increasing the prices of its services. What a contribution it is to the standard of citizens of Serbia, which is getting worse, is clear to all. It is not the reason for the submission of my amendment only to increase the "three dinars per page of the prescribed act", the problem is that the citizen, who leads the court dispute, has to pay all other fees, besides the one covering heading 33. The citizen has to get the paperwork, he has to write his memos, he's often been pushed out of the file, and when it's all added up, it's a big sum. Also, there are cases that some court dispute has been going on for a long time, with extensive evidence. There are artificial findings, so it's necessary to rewrite or photocopy a thousand pages. As far as it goes, it's easy to calculate. The fee, which is charged, instead of going to a dedicated, directly judiciary, goes to Serbia's budget. If you continue this way, to increase the amount of court fees, the citizens will not even be tried anymore, but will settle the disputes themselves. So you force citizens to take the law into their own hands. Therefore, don't introduce new accusations to the citizens of Serbia any more at the time when the rule of generality is left unsuspecting in Serbia. Many workers, or former workers, literally, who remained on the streets after such privatisation, will not have the means to sue those who took their bread and their right to work. This is how you close the door of the courts to the poor people of Serbia, and it's more and more. The Serbian government, by its action, knows how to contribute to finding in court those who would never enter the court. There, the energy minister and the Serbian government are responsible for the diesel shortage in Serbia. The pumps are crowded, people are nervous, there's a fight, so it turns into a fight, and eventually there's them in front of the court, and of course there's punishment, and there's high court interest. The SRS parliamentary group, by amendment to Article 38, proposes to delete this member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16783	Thank you, Mr. Ilic. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. The 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Ivan Radic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16784	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, thanks to the new MP on the work of the National Assembly, for which President, Mr Markovic, the other day, said that the European Rules of Procedure, we are only today able to discuss amendments to the bill, which was in principle debate 10 days ago, which, in my opinion, is absolutely absurd and contrary to logic. But well, I guess these are the new assets of a democratic society. In front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 39. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Court Taxes, which refers to heading 34 of the existing Law. It regulates the payment of court fees for land or other public books on immovable property, this law proposes that the A-4 format tax from 50 be increased to 65 dinars. So it's a 30% increase. The SRS is against the increase in court taxis. This is just one in a series of price hikes. We've had the latest increase in electricity prices, oil, on the other hand we're announcing a pension reduction. So, quite the opposite of logic. But it is the policy of this government of the Republic of Serbia, and no matter how much the reasoning of the resolute minister, Mr Stojkovic, that this increase in court fees will go to raise the salary of judges and employees in the judiciary, which the SRS, in principle, is not. I think that this law should not now be found on the agenda, for two reasons: firstly, the increase in salaries of all employees in the Republic of Serbia, not only in the judiciary, should not be done in this way, this Robinhudian way, to be taken from those who do not, and to give to those who may have little less or little more, are a little less poor. First of all, we need to turn the economy around, start the economy, start the production. Then it'll be enough for everyone to raise salaries to all budget users. This is an increase in the salary of one user's budget. What about health workers, what about schooling, what about the members of the M.O.P.? On the other hand, the problem is that we cannot be absolutely sure that this increase in the court fees will go towards increasing the salaries of judicial employees, as all these fees go to one of Dinkic's bags, and, according to his or her own personal sympathies, he will determine who he will define these funds from the budget. For these reasons, the SRS is against this bill and will not support this bill in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16785	Anyone else on the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Vojislav Milajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16786	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the light of the draft law, as reasons for the amendments and additions to this law, it has been stated that inflation since the last change of this law in 2002 was almost 42% and that the bill envisions an increase in court fees by 30%. However, during the Dossovo Authority, a law on court fees was adopted by DS authorities, which were then enormously large, with an explanation that these high taxes should deter people who would conduct unnecessary judicial proceedings, on the one hand, and on the other hand, would provide funds for material costs in court and improve the material position of people who are employed in the judiciary. However, court fees should not be so high as to deter the construction of court proceedings and at all request services from the judicial branch of the government. They must be accessible to all citizens, so that high court fees deter citizens and put them in an inability to conduct certain court proceedings, although they may exercise some of their rights. This inflation that has been in the last three years, in fact, has only led to a real decrease in the value of court fees and this value should remain so much, should not increase by 30%, as citizens have not been paid 30%, nor have employment increased by 30%, nor have pensions increased by 30%, so there is no basis for the court fees in this amount to increase, because they have been large so far. It's an interesting thing to read here, which is, an analysis of the effects of the legislation given by the proposer, which states: "Application of the solutions proposed in this law will cause additional costs for citizens, businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, but will also contribute to the increase of revenues in the budget." It's just amazing that this kind of analysis of the effect of the law is put forward by the motionary. We don't know if the promoter boasts about this or complains, because he admits that he will cause additional costs for both citizens and for the economy itself. It is completely unclear why in such a difficult economic situation, it further makes the situation of citizens and the economy itself more difficult. As regards heading 37, which is covered by Article 41 of the Amendment and the addition of the Law on Court Taxes, this refers to the assembly before the court of a contract in land-book, intubulation and tabium matters. And that's where the court's services increase by 30%. This kind of taxi, which has been introduced to draw up a contract in front of a court, is completely unnecessary, because people who come before a court to draw up a contract that is related to land-marks, Tapi or intubulation matters; these are people who don't have enough money to have enough money, they would turn to a lawyer and pay for the services of lawyers who would draw up that contract for them. It is evident that these people do not have the means and, precisely because they do not have the money to pay a lawyer, they address the court and ask for this type of service – that a contract is drawn up before the court which is related to the matter already mentioned. This increase makes it even more difficult for people who don't have enough resources to pay for lawyer services anyway. The whole proposal was linearly envisioned by an increase of 30% of all types of taxis, with an explanation that this would improve the judiciary budget and improve the material position. The SRS is absolutely in favour of singleing out a special budget for the judiciary, because the judiciary can only be independent and independent if it has its own budget and has its own resources that it can own on its own. As long as it is not, it will be bound, first of all, to the executive power, and partly to the legislative authority. However, such an increase in court fees will certainly not dramatically improve the material position of judicial employees, nor will the problem of the court's dependence and independence in the decision-making process be solved, so we believe that amendments to the SRS should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16787	Anyone else on the same amendment? (No) The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16788	If the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Court Taxes solves all problems in our judiciary, then certainly SRS MPs would be in favour of increasing these court fees. The amendment to Article 43 reads "Article 43 is deleted". Article 43 refers to the following: "In heading 39(1) the number "200" is replaced by the number "260" and the number "400" is replaced by the number "520". It refers to a reminder that someone is called upon to pay the fee he was obliged to pay without warning. However, the introduction of such court fees and the increase of court fees will not improve or root out the corruption we have in the judiciary, nor will it make the court more up-to-date. Mr. Minister, I'm going to give you two examples, since I haven't talked in principle, of two drastic examples, of how the judiciary works today in Serbia, or how it worked in the past few years. The first example is from 1999 in Novi Pazova. After fighting two young men, one of them went home, took a gun that he didn't have a license for, came back to that other boy's house, called him and brutally on his doorstep killed him, killed his father and killed his 19-year-old sister. For that triple murder, he was sentenced to 40 years in prison, since there was no death penalty, as there was today. After only a short time, the Supreme Court reduced him to 14 years in prison, and in Paz, it is a public secret, that the family gave huge money to individual judges in the Supreme Court and, unfortunately, they succeeded. If they'd given the money to lawyers, it wouldn't have been a big deal, but I want to tell you what the situation is in court today, what it was like before and how it is today, how justice can be bought for money. Another example is of the court's urgency, with us in Bora. In fact, a professor at the Technical Faculty, a doctor of technical science, Leonida Stuparevic, was accused in 2000 or 2001 of taking bribes from students to pass exams. After a long-term trial, when the whole trial is over, a year and a half ago, there is still no solution to whether she is guilty and headed for a sentence, or if she is innocent and back to work. Meanwhile, because of Serbia's public, I draw attention to the fact that a doctor of technical science, who has a huge number of published works in foreign magazines, is now in an apartment without electricity, because he hasn't received a salary in years. She can't practically support herself, since she's a single mother, a son who's also a student. The judge who conducted the case, who has not reached a solution in a year and a half after the trial, has been proposed to the Supreme Court Judge, Mr. Minister, and you should remember this. Maybe he's already been elected, and maybe he's already the Supreme Court judge, and I'm not well-advised. These are drastic examples to be taken into account, so that such things happen, unfortunately, today in our justice system will not correct the introduction of an increase, i.e. an increase in court fees.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16789	The 44th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Todorovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Nikola Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16790	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 44. The bill states that for a decision rejecting or rejecting the request for the exception of the judge, the judges of the jury, the President of the Court, etc. the tax is paid in the amount, instead of the current 300 dinars, 390 dinars. The nominal amount of the increase is not great, for the pleasure of proposing an exemption from a wrong judge, if only that would be a problem and a reason. Keeping in mind what kind of situation we have in the judiciary and who does everything in the court, in particular, it seems to me that it is very expensive to conduct a court case - from the filing of a lawsuit, where a lawyer takes big money by tariff, and then the possibility of stalling the proceedings, the abuse of procedural actions, if it is necessary to include the expert, it additionally complicates the matter, the return of the wrongful verdict, again to the same judge for several times, a terrible collection of court proceedings and all at the expense of the person who filed the claim or who is in the dispute. In this sense, let's say, one example is the most characteristic when disputes are of small value, how much cost of the procedure to significantly exceed the value of the dispute itself – and then lawyers deal with every possible way to get the dispute due to the cost of the proceedings, the value of the dispute is not important after five, six or more years of the conduct of the dispute. In the light of all this, I would like Mr. Minister and the Ministry to create a programme of measures to determine some deadlines, the dynamics of individual duties, the possible responsibility for the non-execution of this programme of measures; to improve the situation in the judiciary, to create material and technical conditions, to make personal, humane, courts better, i.e. to ensure that judges are in line with the task they perform. Then it would probably get better in this country, and some things are impossible to avoid, that a man doesn't have to turn to the court. It's not just a lawsuit, it's not just a lawsuit, it's a protection of certain rights, but by nature there are some things that are being resolved in court, and it's additionally expensive, at all costs, which, by now, has been said in the reasons of these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16791	Is anyone else answering for word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Dragoljub Anastasovski submitted to Article 45 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Dragoljub Anastasovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16792	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 45. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial fees. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is obviously in office of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore the National Assembly sessions are set against the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, to prevent MPs from submitting amendments, and to inform the public of Serbia through explanations that, as in this case, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is only determined to continue robbing Serbian citizens. Citizens have long been singled out through labour, and the government has been obliged to provide adequate earnings for all judicial employees. However, to return a little to Article 45, which says that, for a request to postpone the execution of a criminal sanction, 300 dinars are now paid 390. The court's decision is being paid instead of 500 dinars now in 650, which means the increase is 30%. If this is an increase in the alignment with inflation, it should also coordinate wages, panesias and other social benefits. Obviously, this government is not capable of such a thing and should not be able to fill Serbia's budget with such an imposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16793	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search of the bill, in particular, does the representative of Proposer Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice, want to give the final word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16794	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to thank you for this participation and the objections that have been put through the amendments and to say that I could agree with one position right now. I think that earlier lawwork found its own expression here. I agree with Mr. Krasic that it could have been all in one member and that would have been far too simple. In the future, we will certainly make sure that no member is going to the office. As far as the increase itself is concerned, it is 50% inflation for these four years. I'd like to point out that in all those previous changes, there's been an increase of five times, ten times. We were just taking care of the existing material situation that is in society, so as not to endanger the existence of citizens. On the other hand, this isn't all going into the budget. The majority will go to improve the judge's material position and that's the change in the relationship that now occurs 60-40%, no more 50%-50%. On the other hand, we also took care of the following: a number of public functions are entrusted to certain organisations that perform them. For example, post office. It's a public function, but the post office has a fee so stick, so whoever wants to send the envelope has to pay the tax, but doesn't hit all the citizens, just those who use the services. In that sense, I've given that explanation before. As for other remarks, be sure, that this is a transitional solution and when we finally do, it will be definitely regulated, but the issue of inflation, we have to make sure that what is said is not given out of the budget. If given from the budget affects all citizens, because the budget is charged from income, or from all citizens. And we've actually used the revenue, and you probably know that this is a Kragujevac program, for Vranje, for Bor, so it's out of those funds for those purposes. For these reasons, we didn't want to transfer everything to the budget, so before the budget is determined by the adoption of the Budget and Budgetary Act, and now there will be a rebalancing, and we will also be able to manage to get something, so that we can raise salaries not only for the holders of judicial functions, but also for the other employees in the judiciary. I thank you, for these reasons, once again for your cooperation today.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16795	I'm concluding a search of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Organization and Jurisdiction of State orgnance in the Subsidisation of Organised Crime (Stats) You have received amendments submitted by the National MP Milan Marković and the Legislative Committee. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16796	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I have already referred to this subject, one half an hour ago, when we talked about amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges, and then I said part of the reasoning, and now I will read the first explanation for this amendment. Thus, the proposed law reduces salaries for persons involved in organised crime proceedings, which raises the question of working on these cases and the poor ability to fight against organised crime by state authorities. Of course, I don't mean the reduction in salary in absolute terms, but the pay ratio of those who deal with organised crime and those who deal with regular procedures. So our opinion is quite clear. We need to create all the material conditions so that those who act in organised crime procedures can put their knowledge to the maximum, their work to bring these proceedings to an end and that practically the state is opposed to organised crime which, unfortunately, exists in our country in a very pronounced form. In this context, these amendments are also to Art. Six and seven. The draft law on judges, and in that sense, in that first part of the presentation, I mentioned this bill, because Article 6 provides that you, as a minister, decide even that difference which is now 100% and was 300% in relation to, well, but to simply clarify, to see this consistency in the making of amendments by the DS. So, fully executed to the end, our idea is that these faces shouldn't be put in a position, less favourable to the position they've had so far. As for the arguments that you have given in the bill, I find the argument not convincing and that the argument in principle does not touch this subject, or this question that we are trying to apostrophe here in front of the National Assembly. I don't know if you had that in mind. If you didn't, maybe you could think about it now. So, did you look at this question this way? When it was a principle debate, I also pointed to another fact at the time, which is that there is some confusion in our public regarding the relations of the current government towards the other courts departments dealing with organised crime and war crimes. And that's when I said, I don't want to question at all how many of these suspicions have been established or not, or how many of them have been held up in some real facts, but it's undeniable that since your entry into the office of the minister, there have been some, perhaps awkwardly transmitted statements in the newspaper that have really led to the context of all those events that concern not only your ministry, but also the police department, handing over the first indictee for the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic, etc. Not to list all these events. But the fact is that in the work of the public there has been some uncertainty about the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and above all, the DSS, according to the state's determination and ability to curb organised crime. In that sense, and for the sake of a general belief in your relationship with the ability and need of the state to fight organized crime and for the sake of these people working in special departments being motivated, the truth, far more than in regular courts, I think the time in which we live simply requires it. For this reason, I ask you, indeed, to reconsider in this context the solutions you have proposed to these amendments to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime, not to slow down, in this context, the reasoning that you have given, which includes another context and has another dimension, when it comes to harmonising these solutions, as it all began in accordance with the amendments, regarding salaries of judicial officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16797	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 140(5), paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted by the Legislative Committee. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16798	Since this is also a transitional provision, we accept this amendment. As far as this previous exposure is concerned, just so it's clear to the citizens, there's no attitude here that's not understood, and I'm repeating now, here, what I've said. There's no special court to be ripped or founded. It's about that, there's a Department of Combating Organized Crime at the Belgrade District Court. As far as this issue is concerned, I've brought it up and I'm going to say it again. The relationship remains exactly the same as it was. The county court's salaries were 36,790 dinars, and the salaries in these special war crimes departments of 87,800 dinars, and now after these changes they will be 47,830 dinars and 114,800 dinars. So the relationship remains identical and it's not insignificant that you say whether they're nominally rising, rising, and it's very important that they rise. So all the wages are raised, and the relationship remains the same. Nothing changes, therefore, with some explanations, that it will be reduced, and some of their desire to fight organised crime will be compromised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16799	With the amendment of the Legislative Committee accepted by the minister, he becomes an integral part of the law. Since we have completed the search of the draft law in particular, does the representative of Proposer Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Organization and Jurisdiction of State Organs in the War Crimes Procedure (Significences) You have received amendments submitted by Parliamentarian Milan Marković and the Legislative Committee on Laws on Proposal of Law. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16800	The reasons for this amendment are the same as for the previous amendment. So, it's the same thing, but I wouldn't want to do anything now with Mr. Secretary, and I don't doubt the figures he's read. I will now, Mr. Minister, read the review of the provisions of the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime that is being changed, and it says: "V. Plata and other labour rights, Article 18". and he says, "The person who performs the function is deleted from those words. But it doesn't matter. So, further, "doing jobs and tasks in special organisational units under this law have the right to pay which cannot be higher than", so far it has been triple, and the word "twice" is deleted and the word "double" is entered, these amendments and the additions of the law, the amount of wages it would achieve in the function of jobs, these regular ones. So I think I'm right though, because the possibility has been triple so far, and now it's down to double, so maybe we didn't get along, but definitely, we're against reducing this possibility to a triple amount. By the way, I agree with you that the nominal amount of salary is very important, and here we have only faced opinions about the possibility of raising, or the possibility that these persons have a triple the amount of wages they pay, therefore, because of the complexity of their work. Basically, it's just that.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16801	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16802	I hope, Mr. Angelkovic, that you won't mind me going a little bit of exposure to moving beyond what is covered by the amendment, but we need to inform the public why the SRS has not submitted amendments to this bill. The fact that we have not submitted the amendments does not mean that we agree with the proposal for this law, or this correction. It is a law concerning special department and special war crimes procedures, but I am taking this opportunity to inform the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the public in Serbia that in the current practice and courts of general jurisdiction have tried for these crimes. As I recall, the judges showed that they understood the problem and made good judgments, no matter how many echoes there were in public over some of the judgments of these courts. I warn the government of the Republic of Serbia that a whole series of Security Council resolutions, from the 808 of February 1993, over 827 of May 25, 1993, to these last 1,503, 1.534, have been made clear that the national court is responsible for the trial of these crimes. In this regard, the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, at the session of all judges, in accordance with Article 15 of that term, amended the Rules of Procedure and Evidence and incorporated a new rule 11 BIS. This rule confers jurisdiction on the Special Search Council, i.e. to pass on all cases of lower and medium-level liability to competent, relevant, competent national courts. The government of the Republic of Serbia must not wait, but must make a request through the competent authorities, and here above all I think of the war crimes prosecutor responsible and that, in accordance with the final strategy adopted at the Security Council, it is demanding that these trials be organised with us. That's how we potentiate sovereignty, to point out that we're a state. If we are not able to judge crimes against humanity, severe violations of the laws and customs of war and other acts, then believe us, we should not exist as a state. One country is just being defined by its ability to exercise power. In this exercise of power, judicial authority is one of the most significant. I also inform you and the public that we are asking that our State Prosecutor, who has been elected here, is not mine, has been chosen by the majority, probably had some criteria, and the Security Council has gained confidence that our court is competent, qualified, can judge and should be elected for what is his jurisdiction, the primary jurisdiction of the national court. So I use this opportunity to call on the government of the Republic of Serbia to act in this way, because if we do so, then we do not need the kind of nonsense that happens in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, to pass a special law on the freezing of property by economic means and funds of persons accused, allegedly, in some escape, etc. No matter what the SRS was against setting up a special war crimes court, and you see for yourself when that special court box opens then it's boundless and then the exception tends to become a rule. Then we have a court of organized crime, so we have a court proposed for computer crime. I wouldn't be surprised if under pressure from abroad there was another specialised court, where, I don't know, I don't know why so much specialization and why the need for such things when it can be within the existing court system. We will not support this amendment, nor will we propose amendments to this law, because, in principle, as a party, we are against the existence of such a court, since courts of general jurisdiction can very easily conduct proceedings and impose sentences for war crimes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16803	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 140(5), paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by the Legislative Committee. Minister Zoran Stojkovic accepts the amendment, making it an integral part of the bill's amendment. Since we have completed the search of the draft law in particular, does the representative of Proposer Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice, want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL ON ORGANISATION AND AUTHORITY OF THE COUNTRY OF THE COUNTRY OF THE COUNTRIES FOR THE FIELD OF THE COUNTRY OF THE COUNTRY OF THE COUNTRIES FOR THE FIELD OF THE COUNTRY OF THE STATES FOR THE FIELD, SRETO PERĆ, Milan Stevović, Zoran Krasić, Natasa Jovanovic, Miljko Četrović, Vjerica Radeta, Nemanja Sarović, Momir Marković, Vojislav Milajić, Zlatan Jovanovic, Darko Glisic, Branislav Rankić, Milovan Radovanović, Milorad Mirčić and Dragoljub Stamenković. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. The Legislative Committee shall be, in accordance with Article 144(4). The Rules of Procedure shall be replaced by the words "criminal law" in Article 2(2) of the Code of Criminal Code, and in Article 3 paragraph 1) the words "criminal law" shall be replaced by the words "criminal law". Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Under the name of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Gavrilovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16804	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities to combat high-tech crime. I propose in the amendment (which I have submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group) that this member be deleted. We often object that when we are against certain laws, we suggest that each member be deleted. Of course, if we feel that such a law is not necessary, that it is pointless, that we will propose that each of its members be deleted individually and eventually that the full law be deleted or before the debate is withdrawn from the procedure. Article 1 of this Act determines what the area governed by this Law is, and Article 1 states: "This law regulates education, organisation, jurisdiction and authority of special organisational units of state bodies for the purpose of detecting, prosecution and prosecution of criminal offences determined by this law". In Article 2. – I must read what it means – "High-tech crime, within the meaning of this law, is the conduct of criminal acts where computers, computer networks, computer data, as well as their products in material or electronic form appear as an object or means of committing criminal acts." Interestingly, Article 14 of this law provides that, "criminal proceedings for criminal offences under Article 3 of this Law, in which the indictment took effect until the date of entry into force of this law, will end before the courts that were really and locally competent before the entry into force of this law." Article 14 of the proposed law makes it clear that this law is completely unnecessary, because so far we have had criminal acts in this area and certain state authorities have acted on criminal acts in this area, so that so far, for the detection, prosecution and prosecution of certain criminal offences, the prosecution, the MUP and the judicial authorities, or courts. Now, as state authorities responsible for the fight against high-tech crime, a special prosecutor's office would be proposed, which would be educated at the District Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, and in particular the prosecutor would be appointed by the Republic Prosecutor. This seems to me like a private institution is being created and that the minister might be able to give a slightly more adequate explanation about this proposal. The prosecutor's term of office, or special prosecutor in charge of the prosecution, would be four years, and after the term of office, he could return to his post again, or to the prosecutor's office from which he came. It is said that when these prosecutors are appointed, they have prosecutors who understand the technique of computer equipment. Then, a special service for the fight against high-tech crime would be organised at the Ministry of the Interior and, ultimately, a court that would have acted on this, or tried on the crimes committed, would have been the Belgrade District Court with a particularly large, or second-degreed court in these crimes, which means the Supreme Court. We feel that this legislative proposal is completely unnecessary and that is why I have proposed, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, that Article 1 of this law be deleted. I assume you'll accept this amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16805	I thank Mr. Peric. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Gavrilovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The National MP Milan Stevovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Gavrilovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16806	On the occasion of this amendment, I will include a number of members of this bill. The law has 15 members, the law is completely unnecessary. He shouldn't exist with us, because this law actually unauthorizedly changes the provisions of a whole series of other laws regarding the judiciary. One of those members that amends the existing provisions of the law is Article 3 which prescribes groups of criminal acts for which these bodies are formed by the draft law. These are crimes against the security of computer data and crimes against intellectual property, but still related to computers and that technique. In this way, we, in practice, change this law to the proper provision of the Law on the Regulation of Courts, changing jurisdiction. We are now saying that these provisions of the Law on the Law of Order of Courts do not exist, but will apply to these crimes this article, which later prescribes who is in charge and who does certain things. This should neither be legal or legislative in this way. The second thing, it is said, is that this law regulates education, organisation, jurisdiction and authority. Education is not regulated at all by this law, because you do not have any provision saying something new is being educated, but in all the provisions are later being discussed about the organisation, so it is said, a special organisation within the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, a special organisation in terms of larger in the district court and a special organisation, probably some administration within the MUP. Simply, Article 1 does not correspond to the law contained. What is particularly disturbing, as much as the promoter wanted to avoid creating something special within the existing one, something that could be accepted, but what is not supposed to be in the brackets, that is Article 4(2), says: "The Belgrade District Public Prosecutor's Office is educateing a special department to fight", and now it is against "high-tech crime, (hereinafter: Special Prosecutor's Office)." The department can't turn into a special prosecutor's office. This must have been a con man, because the promoter had just insisted on not being a special prosecutor, but just a department. It is similar to the provisions governing the status of prosecutors, and Article 5 says of a special prosecutor: "The work of the special prosecutor is being handled by a special prosecutor for high-tech crime, (hereinafter referred to as the Special Prosecutor)." So, in the drive not to disrupt the structure prescribed by the Public Prosecution Act, we actually have something that is the negation of what is the Public Prosecutor's Law, and where there are possibly some possibilities to create specialised departments, but not prosecutors. And not to analyse specific provisions that are all problematic from the point of view of the existing regulation of our judiciary, but I must point out the basic problem. The main problem with this type of crime is to find out, not who's going to represent the indictment before which court. If this is a basic problem and there is a need for specialisation, then this means that the MUP, with its regional authorities and units, needs to be equipped, able to be monitored, because there is no fundamental difference in the detection of criminal acts of murder or of this crime in principle. We haven't passed any special laws on how to expose the crime of murder, how it will especially determine the crime for the bandits, the theft. This specificity requires the organisation, equipment and profession of certain people in the MUP who could work to detect these crimes, and beyond that there must be nothing left to exist. And on the basis of the results of the pre-criminal procedure, it is true that the competent public prosecutor's seat is being prosecuted. If a police expert found him a felony, determined by the perpetrator, the attorney general can represent. Why would he have to have some special knowledge? The MUP came to him as an expert organ, as an expert who taught him and showed him that it was a crime. Why would a court have to have special judges who would understand that? I must warn you that in some countries, when there was "internet" expansion and "computers" and "computers" and so on. It has almost not been amended by criminal laws, but it has been done with interpretations and has been used with existing general provisions, i.e. the provisions of the law concerning general crime. I'm afraid in this way, it just throws dust in the eyes, where it's supposed to form something to fight something, and I'm telling you that in two, three years, this won't even be able to live. I'm not sure that this centralization of prosecution, detection and trial that is certainly going through this bill can be effective, because it's not a problem here either in the court or in the prosecution, but primarily in the case of one who needs to find out if there's a crime, which is the MUP. We are practically in this law in the provisions concerning Article 9, so Article 10, etc., also affecting and amending the Law on Internal Affairs, the Law on Judges, the Law on the Regulation of Courts. We simply have to stay away from the fact that there are more specific laws in our legal system, which define what is prescribed as a principle or what is a general law, which applies throughout the territory to all. It's our basic objection, and that's why we've been putting up with these amendments, just to distract the promoter. Germany probably needs a special court, a special prosecutor, especially the police for these things. Why? Because of the territory, the number of inhabitants, the level of technical equipment, etc. But we can't overwrite everything from abroad. It just can't be copied. Here it was necessary to concentrate, first of all, the funds without any change of the law to the Ministry of the Interior, that is one variant; there may be another variant, that there is a special agency that would follow it, since that mania government in the ruling structures, all go to the agencies. But here's the problem with detecting crimes. The prosecutor, you know, is enough for the Republic Public Prosecutor to assign one of his deputies who will professionally follow the area of this type of crime and based on hierarchy, to question the views, the mandatory views that the prosecutor makes to the lower prosecutions, can provide a unique view of the prosecution. As far as the court is concerned, it is very quickly that the case-law is formed in connection with these types of crimes and how they are tried. But in order for this to be settled at the Ministry of the Interior, we don't need this law. I don't think there's even a need to change the existing Internal Affairs Act. I don't even think it's necessary to change the Code of Criminal Procedure, because he has these flexible provisions that respect the situation that with highly sophisticated technologies, criminals appear. They usually always go in front of the state. So, here's just a problem of discovery. If only the problem of detecting crimes, perpetrators, the existence of a crime, then it is in exactly the same situation as other criminal acts, only that specificity regarding technical equipment and expertise must be respected. I have one more thing to say, there's another problem that's not being touched by this law. This is the problem with how many competent authorities can enter privacy and the functioning of whole systems and some networks. The question is, this bill doesn't regulate it. This way, we're just showing some identification to abroad that we've fulfilled something. Why are we doing this, like this, not clear to us? We suspect that some of the results will come, we even suspect that it can happen to turn into something like this fight against, say, piracy. The biggest anti-piracy fighters are the ones who put the most into illegal traffic discs from Bulgaria and some locations where they are printed, through some sound names, but they are not the subject now, so I don't want to mention them. Besides, they got criminal charges. So, the level of change that is needed is, in fact, necessary, according to the Ministry of the Interior, according to the capacity of the prosecution, the questions, the interpretations of the court in relation to uniform court practice, but not a special law, with special departments or special higher. Because if someone thinks that a particularly large Belgrade District Court should be the hat that will be the first-degree court for all cases in the Republic of Serbia, I am telling you that probably the same or similar crimes committed in a smaller place will remain completely undetected. Because the discovery at the interior ministry level is centralised, prosecution at the level of the Belgrade District Public Prosecutor's Office, trial at the Belgrade District Court level. Where are these smaller places? Where are these small providers in smaller places? The question is – that part, which is very important for detecting, the possibility of communication, entering the system of providers, because through the provider it ends. Not thanks to him, but thanks to his installations, access to the network, etc., etc. Instead of this approach to be arranged and to train the M.P. in all the territories that this can be done, I think it's the wrong way. That is why we have submitted these amendments, just to draw attention to the inconsistencies of certain provisions with existing laws in the field of justice and to the inability to apply the provisions of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16807	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. We move on to the next amendment. National MP Milica Gavrilovic submitted to the 4th amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The Justice Committee proposes that the amendment to Article 4 submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16808	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is pointless for the Assembly to adopt this law, which is not now called after the Committee's opinion, although it is in the Assembly to declare it, but it is obvious that the majority has been created, to accept this amendment by colleague Gavrilovic, so the law will be called: the law on combating high-tech crime rather than high-tech. The Serbs would say, "It's not sewn but neck." But who is interested in it when only one information here is important to the citizens, that the law in the budget requires 50 million for its implementation, that it is completely pointless, unnecessary and that all of these provisions of the law, including this provision that is defined by Article 4, for which we propose on behalf of the SRS, to delete, already exist in one way or another in the Criminal Code. If there is no possible change to that code, it can also be an incorporated crime, related to what you have now called, i.e. you intend to call it - high-tech crime. If you have already approached the creation of such a law, it is absolutely pointless not to pay attention to something that can also be classified, and yet we do not need such a special law, or to a special prosecution, which Minister Stojkovic suggests in Article 4, but also to pay attention to those acts and what they really are, high-tech crime within the meaning of this law. You didn't pay attention to the fact that high-tech or high-tech crime has long been represented in all the structures of our society. According to current and current positive legislation, those who have committed these acts, such as Perisic and highly sophisticated high treason, should respond because you know when Najbor handed over documents related to Serbia-Montenegro's military and state secret, did not bring it to some papers, but to neatly cut CDs. Not that you didn't react, but it was your last hole in the play, which Kostunica would once say. As for the current highly sophisticated disintegration of what is our country, which is our space and what is happening in the last days, you would be better off, as well as the district and Republic public prosecutors, paying attention to what really poses a threat to the state and society, and that is the business and operation of certain so-called. NGOs. Do you need a bigger argument and a better example than the fact that, the leader of one such organized and in every sense of high-sofed bank, that drug addict Natasa Kandic has launched a hack and a haranga against a decent Serb host today, the most respected politician, and in doing so, highly sophisticated and highly technologically helpful B-92 and others who have stepped into that circuit! Instead of trying to react in this way, if you've already wanted something, and saying: "People, in matters of state and people, we're not genocide people, we're members of the Serbian people who and how they've suffered, who and how they've been struggling to preserve only what is their own, their hearth, their own country, you're mildly confused and you're smitten with certain points of the law that you don't mean anything and you're introducing, and that's what Article 4 of the Special Prosecutor's Office foresees. You think that in this way, by giving such meaning through the organization of such a special prosecution to prevent various "Cadas" and "Babys" and "Janjusevic" and who else to have listening devices, to do whatever they want, to keep different houses dealing with cable-distributive systems or are involved in it, in the same way, there are indications, doing listening to certain faces. This law is in one way, for our judiciary and for our MUP, inappropriately, because we have one established system that does not work, prescribed or obtained from those who ask you to do so, something that in legal practice, which in the MUP, as Mr Krasic said earlier, will not be applied unless it is seriously worked on all, especially these cases that I have cited. You saw that Friday, because the session was open to the public, the BIA director said that there are individuals in our country who are listening to their listening devices, and that was the question of one of their fellow MPs, they can do that, or they can do that, and that there is almost no punishment for that, at the level of the offence. What are we talking about, then, when this law, with respect to such things and such phenomena, is ridiculous. Compared to the fact that the leader of the gang, Natasa Kandic, and similar to her, are willing to declare us a genocide people, to make generations and generations after us suffer for this and for something we didn't do, rather than really, as a people and even hundreds of thousands of people, we suffered because of the fact that we wanted to defend what was ours. You today, as many as 15 of you, twenty of you from the ruling coalition, (well, that we don't count ourselves, but this is how obvious you are, and the radicals are at least five times more on this side) so you're distracting yourself with something that in the right sense of words can't be applied, and we don't need it, and more citizens are going to cost. When those people who reap on the Cave and who grow those sheep herds, who look to survive and at night barely get into half-eight, possibly at 11:00, if they have electricity and if they have TV in their home, in that cabin, turn on and watch what's done in the country, through national television, which certainly isn't the right word, because it doesn't represent what most people say, and that's what we're radicals. But even if they look at it after a whole hard day, you know how much you'll intrigue him to vote or support your intention to pass the 50 million dinar bill on high-tech crime. To mark one lamb or one sheep, to have to register, to sell, to fill the budget register, and you, as well as how modern people, will "high-cosofist" to advocate that we have one law that will cost the state another 50 million. There have been various proposals and various enthusiasts in the state of Serbia, in which the people have no bread to eat. So one colleague came up with the idea, as if the standard of people was like that, so it should be here in the Assembly, that they have a few thousand euros' salary, and I see how much you're struggling, you don't know what laws or amendments are on the agenda. She thus suggested, (unless from one party in power) that the National Assembly for the purposes of MPs obtain one laptop, you know, it is highly technologically acceptable, that they do not have "poor MPs", and especially those who are in power, to torture, but to press the buttons and see what the law is and say: this is proposed by Stojkovic's excellent law; these Dinkics, so there is nothing better than this; so press another button and say - see radical amendments, it's no good. If this is your goal, and if you look at Serbia's future like that, if you think that this nonsense called the law, to prevent all those people who, above all, want not to harm only business entities – and it was also in the privatisation process and various foreign intelligence services involved, history will judge, involved in the privatisation process, if you think that you will in such a way convince citizens to do the right thing, then you are on the wrong path. That's not the answer. The solution is that both in the country and in the post of prime minister and in the place of people who, above all, are responsible for preventing organised crime and corruption in every way, are determined people who will know to oppose and that everyone is responsible for the work he has done, whether from this area or from any other. In addition, on the case of Mr Tomislav Nikolic, which is my message to the Repulbic Public Prosecutor, not to appoint these special prosecutors, but to deal with it, on a case last week, when he filed a criminal charges against that evil and that accident called Natasa Kandic, you see how it reacts and how truth, justice and justice are protected. Of course, we now expect that she will work according to what she has been elected and the entire prosecution; as well as in cases you have known before, when Mr Nikolic, also last year, handed over criminal charges against Hamovic, Lazarevic, Davinic, Paskas and all others, not to list them now, and not to give himself some unnecessary powers through such a pointless law, and his hands are full of work. He'd better solve this case one by one. Let's get him out of Kandichka, in a row.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16809	Is anyone else answering for word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milica Gavrilovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Cetrovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration shall continue to reject this amendment, and the Legislative Committee shall consider this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Miljko Čtrović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16810	Dear People's MPs, this is one of the many nebulous laws proposed by the Serbian government, a bill on the organisation of the authority of state authorities to combat high-tech crime. This law, almost without any justification, with arguments and facts why such a law is proposed, possibly by order or by prescribing some laws from this developed West, one law in 15 members sets out a special prosecutor's office, a special service within the Ministry of High Technical Crime and even a special department or greater for the trial of high-tech crime of the Belgrade District Court. What is it here that has been presented by the MPs of the SRS with the explanation of the previous amendments? The prosecution, the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, the Belgrade district court and the Belgrade MUP are determined to be those authorities and services that will be organised and fought against high-tech crime. This is again a waste of dust in the eyes of Serbian citizens, because limited crime is not to be contained, on the contrary, from day to day across Serbia, which is proof that neither the prosecution nor the MUP, especially the competent courts, are doing their job, not applying laws, are not effective and the perpetrators of these crimes do not receive the fines. Nothing special will be done with this law either. They'll probably just stall the proceedings if they run for organized crime and this so-called crime. High-tech crime, by transferring a ball from municipal, districtal to this special prosecutor, the special service of the MUP in Belgrade to a special department of the District Court in Belgrade. It is incomprehensible that such legislation specialis is entered into the jurisdiction of both the Republic Public Prosecutor or the Prosecutor's Office in general, as a special state body, the MUP, as well as the organisation of courts and that it is determined that only the Belgrade authorities are capable or capable of combating high-tech crime. In all cases, when it comes to criminal proceedings and litigation, all other proceedings before the court, judges are not able to engage in professional matters or assess facts from professional matters from various areas of life and work, so always to determine facts and truths, the only means at their disposal to come to the right truth are, judicial experts. That's why there are experts in all areas, in medicine, in traffic, in technology, in agriculture. In fact, they shall, through their findings and opinions, establish facts on the court's order, and on a proposal from the parties, and that is one of the key evidence, in addition to other evidence brought before courts for the determination of truth and judgment of certain matters. How will a special prosecutor, as provided for in Article 5 here, be appointed from the public prosecutor's office? It must also possess special knowledge from the field of information technologies. As far as I know, there's no area of information technology at law schools where change law is not available. By passing judicial exams and other training of judges or prosecutors, there is no part of knowing or training about information technology. Information as an area is extremely advanced and this is the only thing that specialists and experts in this area can do. Only they can, through their findings and opinions, give the right truth to both the internal affairs and the prosecution, especially when the case comes to trial. What is being debated today about this special law only proves the inability and inability to direct all the institutions of the state to counter crime, and now with such a law, things will certainly not be corrected. We are all witnessing that a trial is being held in the special department of the District Court in Belgrade and that this has become a kind of farce, where every day only themes for electronic and written media are being presented; as the witness said, how anyone acted in court, how lawyers reacted, how the prosecutor reacted, how the president reacted. What about the epilogue of these trials? Here, almost two years, we don't have, and the question is when will the judgments of that special court be judicial and executive, given the practice that for many serious crimes from any form of crime proceedings to a judicial and executive verdict take several years, without saying that for many acts deliberately through the repetition of these court proceedings for serious crimes, even, there is an ageing of prosecution. Unfortunately, it is the truth and reality in the state of Serbia. Viewing all these provisions, it is not without reason the SRS, or the parliamentary group, that all members are deleted, because it is essential to give any positive opinion on such a law, because there will be only a new imposition, a new distraction in determining truth and justice, especially for the fight against organised crime, and so far nothing has been done in any part or in the fight against organised crime. Organized crime acts at the level of the entire state, in all areas. Unfortunately, all that has happened since the arrival of DOS, since 5 October, with that "white book", former Minister Mihajlovic, on the discovery of organised crime, we have come to the situation that these leaders of the former government, with the leaders of the current media star government, or are trying to do so with performances on B92, via the Insider and other shows, with Beba, Chad and others. We've even come into a situation right now to write books, promote their books, and that's the theme of electronic and written media. All that is mentioned in the duels and conflicts of the leaders of this government, so-called. A democratic bloc that's a bigger criminal, who's what and on what grounds he's been involved in what's-his-name. the affairs, i.e. the most severe crimes of robbery and of the state and of the people, did not receive their epilogue, nor did they begin, not even, any investigations, let alone the prosecutions and criminal proceedings. This is the truth facing Serbia today and ordinary people, I don't like to call them that – ordinary, they are honest and honest citizens of Serbia who are extremely hard to live with, who are now in a desperate position, because they no longer have faith in the state or state institutions. What prevails in the majority of those who are hard to live, starts with pensioners, workers, peasants, that there is no justice, that there is no more chance of justice, or for them if they appear before the institutions of the state, and in particular that justice is not available for the most serious crimes, for the robbery of both states and peoples, because there is not a single procedure for all those who mention themselves or blame each other in the robbery of countries and peoples. There was no one here to answer about treason or the state or the people. Today, Perisic and many others are mentioned, not to mention what they are doing through the so-called ". NGOs Biserko, Natasa Kandic, other exhibits that need to blacken Serbia and the Serbian people as much as possible. To force Serbia and the Serbian people to admit something they didn't do, not to do genocide in Srebrenica or anywhere. Serbia and the Serb people were just defending themselves to stay in the places he lived for centuries, to stay in their houses and in the hearths. The same you, in a way, most of the media in Serbia -- and in contrast, the real truth about the loss of the Serb people at the premises of the former Yugoslavia, especially in Croatia or in areas called the Republika Srpska Krajina in Bosnia and Herzegovina. State television, funded by all citizens of the Serbian state, because it is financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget -- will not and does not want to make the real truth contrary to what has been placed for days and weeks, and these are in some way attempts to make Serbia recognise what it has not done, that it has done genocide. The Serbian people were never genocide, it showed history, never waged conquest wars, just waged defensive wars and tried to save themselves and survive. He's done it since 1990, and he's done it today. We are aware of the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, and we are trying to steal that space. Serbs who have stayed in that space and tried hard to survive in that space are eager to be manipulated, through that banal name -- that it is the Serb community in Kosovo and Metohija that is now to decide with Albanians on the status of Kosovo and Metohija, and the state of Serbia should not interfere with the rights of those Serbs to decide on Kosovo and Metohija. It is part of the Serbian people, Kosovo and Metohija are part of the state of Serbia and the state of Serbia and the entire Serbian people and all citizens are only legitimate to decide on Kosovo and Metohija. It will pass on July 11th, they have not achieved what they wanted with their propaganda, hijka and haranga on Serbia and the Serbian people. The truth still breaks in the media in Serbia, both electronic and written. And on Saturday, July 9th, at 12:00 p.m., the SRS will show part of the truth about the death of Serbs in Bosnia, especially the death in the area around Drina, around Srebrenica, the death of Serbs in Sarajevo, 10,000 Serbs who were tortured and killed in Sarajevo. That is true and all citizens of Serbia will learn about this truth, but the world will also know.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16811	The amendment was submitted to the 6th Amendment by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic, the Committee on Justice and Administration, proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16812	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we've always been against some of the innovations you've introduced so far; we've been against forming agencies besides ministries, creating new services, we've been against tampering with certain social segments, so we're against introducing prefixes in front of crime and prefixes in front of services to deal with this crime. So, he says, organized crime, every crime is organized. Now that you've had it, and the prosecution of the fight against organised crime, and the court to fight organised crime, we're moving on, so this crime is high-tech, therefore, for the fight against high-tech crime. Crime is a crime, the judiciary is a judiciary, the prosecution is a prosecutor's office and the state is a state, if it can stand up to all of these negative phenomena that happen in every country, including ours. "In our little over 2000, ever since that bulldozer revolution came, but what you're going to do is all the liquids of that revolution. It says: crime monitors the development of technology. You know, sometimes you had to steal a little differently, and today, hackers get into your account and take off your 10, 20, 30 or 50,000 as much as you have. However, the citizens of Serbia are less and less able to take off, as Serbian citizens are finding themselves less and less in those accounts, but there are a lot of things for you from the ruling nomenclature to handle. If we start sharing crime in these distinctive parts, then we'll come, whether organized crime is a crime in agriculture, where genetically modified organisms are brought into the country, the state destroys both health and technology, and whatever you want, or it's a crime only in agriculture. Either it's just a crime, like any other section of crime, that the state, or the court, or the prosecution, every district court and every prosecution can stand up to it. Is the crime in privatization high-tech, where they sell everything living below the price, not interested in the price, what was the commission at that price?- I'm sorry. Is crime in banking, the destruction of four banks, banks that carried the Serbian economy, the introduction of foreign banks that now have all the capital abroad, all the difference they make, and the differences are terrible, because you have to pay a lot more interest on credit than they pay in these banks' countries, and on your savings are interest far less than those banks pay in their own countries?- I'm sorry. Is it also high-tech crime that our finance minister transfers to one bank, which we all thought was a state bank, because it's called the National Savings Bank, transfers the state property of the former Social Accounting Service across Serbia? Is it even organized crime that this bank gets the right to pay off the old foreign currency savings, so in every newspaper when you open, you see how many people have to run from the counter to the counter to collect what came to them then?- I'm sorry. Whether it's high-tech crime and organization, you're used to beating NGOs, these NGOs, so they don't wear in sacks anymore, purses, documentation, but cut on disk and hand over. After all, Perisic only handed over three or four disks, so he would have to take the case documents. Even though the prosecution didn't break up much about his case, and he's running away, and I hear he's coming back, if he hasn't already returned, I haven't been there, so now you have a chance to arrest him and judge him for this. Is high-tech organised crime and what finished highways are given for 30 years and only on the basis of these two LOTs, as the Ministry of Capital Investments called, only according to these two LOTs from Horgos to Novi Sad and from Novi Sad to Belgrade, somewhere over a billion euros from state funds, will be poured into other people's pockets. Is it high-tech crime and listening to Serbian citizens, because we know that both BIA and SUP must seek and receive a court order to have the right to listen to any citizen in this country. And we also know that after the "buldozer revolution" of Germany, here, read now what this unfortunate Ceda Jovanovic writes, where she says that the German government gave a listening device to the then government of Zoran Djindjic and that these devices were put into circulation, into operation, because they couldn't get to the BIA, or BIA was out of control or to the VBA, because they too have the right to listen and they were out of control?- I'm sorry. So, they turned it on, Germany made an effort to give them funds, a listening device. Where are those devices now? This isn't just a question for the judiciary, this is a question for the MUP and for the BIA, where are these listening devices now and who are they listening to? On the other hand, there are indications that these networks of KDS are listening to citizens. Is that high-tech crime? Just a few more things. The state is a state, if it can judge. The state is a state, if it can charge. The state is a state, if it can defend its territory. All countries that can't do that are colonies. As far as this law is concerned, we don't need any special prosecutors or special prosecutors. Every district attorney to the level accused by the district attorney's office, every district attorney to the level accused by the district attorney's office, every prosecutor in the Republic Prosecutor's Office, and I mean the deputy prosecutors, they can do this job, they can charge. Did he break the law, is it crime? It doesn't matter at all how this crime was committed, it's important that the state, that society, that citizens are damaged and that the state must take protection of itself and of its citizens. We ask these prosecutors, these deputy prosecutors, of these judges to enforce the laws, and the fact is that from the republican prosecutor to the last prosecutor in the prosecutor's office, in the municipal prosecutor's office, their work is highly underestimated. The fact is that from the President of the Republic Court, or Supreme Court, to the last judge, to the last officer in the judiciary, their work has been underestimated. The fact is that we have a capable frame, except for the last time we elected prosecutors and judges, so we had the opportunity to have a lawyer come to us who spent the entire lifetime as secretary of the agricultural cooperative or primary school and come to be the deputy district attorney or municipal prosecutor. On the other hand, our judiciary, our prosecution was absolutely placed on healthy feet by training staff from interns, from lawyers who graduated from law school and were accepted as an intern, passed a judicial exam, went to the level of an expert associate, and eventually filled out the seats of deputy prosecutors and prosecutors. There's another lack of logic about the prosecution. We have deputy prosecutors whose term lasts six or eight years, I think eight years, after which he can, and he doesn't have to be elected. We have judges whose term has not been determined, so his term of office is until he retires or is elected to a higher office. It is illogical for a public prosecutor to be elected indefinitely, and a deputy public prosecutor for an eight-year period. I think it should be the other way around, because the prosecutor is the head of the service, the president of the court is the head of the court, the president of the court is elected for a certain time, for a term of office, and the judge is elected indefinitely. I think our judiciary would have to make it right for the people who work in the D.A.'s office and the judiciary. They're capable of coping with every form of crime, because crime has only changed maybe form, otherwise it's a thief's job and it's meant for the judiciary and the judiciary to be caught. Is the law broken? Is there a criminal law? Is there any way to determine punishment under this criminal law? It doesn't have to be the deputy prosecutor who deals with this business to get into the technology of how the crime was committed, the means by which it was committed, to get to know the last electronic car. It is important to him that there is a law, that the law is applicable, that there is a criminal offence on the other hand, and every prosecutor will charge, every judge will convict.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16813	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16814	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, just one or two sentences on this amendment. In a rhetorical sense, we have just witnessed low-tech crime, so I urge you not to accept this amendment at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16815	Replica, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16816	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, if you believe me, I have no idea what this predecessor said. Low-tech crime? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a crime case. Mr. MP - a rhetorical crime? You file a criminal report and don't go out for this pay phone, because if I wasn't polite, I'd tell you to knock some bullshit.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16817	Mr. Markovic, I realized he didn't hurt you, so it wasn't right for the replica, except he mentioned you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Gavrilovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Vojislav Milajic submitted to the 9th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16818	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a good thing the Proposer has accepted an amendment that changes the name of this law. The only thing that has been named so far, as the promoter has delivered to the Assembly, has been inadequately contained in this proposal. As far as the text of the law itself and the establishment of a special department of high-tech crime is concerned, it has already been said quite a bit. That this is excessive and unnecessary SRS MPs have just shown and proved their arguments. In short, just a few more words to say about this bill. I think, as the title itself was missed, so was the complete law. In fact, the law is fairly superficially written and reduced to only one group of crimes involving computers and computer networks, i.e. computer data and information related to computers. If there's something you want to do in this sense, it's not enough. This should have been extended to the area of telecommunications, because there are high-tech technologies and there is this high-tech crime. The Belgrade District Court is scheduled to establish a special department dealing with these crimes, which is another special department that we already have in our judiciary; which is the problem of its kind. In Article 5. (and I am going to expand the discussion outside of Article 10 on which I submitted the amendment) says that a special prosecutor for this area will be elected from the ranks of deputy public prosecutors or public prosecutors who possess special knowledge in the field of information technologies. I ask the promoter, although he is not present, whether he has records of how many prosecutors and their deputies today in Serbia possess the necessary knowledge from the area to be high-quality prosecutors in the area of high-tech crime. I believe that what is predicted here is not adequate in real terms and that we in Serbia do not have enough lawyers who are today prosecutors and deputy prosecutors and who are so trained in the field of information technology that they can work properly. Also, Article 6 states: "When it comes to the knowledge that a criminal case is involved in the cases provided for in Article 3 of this Law, a special prosecutor when he speaks in written form to the Republic of Public Prosecutor, asking him to trust or transfer jurisdiction. So he's waiting to find out that there's something in some criminal case that appears in this sphere, and then he's asking the prosecutor to transfer or entrust jurisdiction over the case, or procedure. Is it possible to base the judiciary on waiting for information to come out? Mr Krasic has just explained well, there is no basic problem here in the special department of the prosecutor's special department, there is a problem with the discovery of these crimes. So how do you find them? There should be experts, persons who are capable and professional enough to discover these crimes. Processing can also be done by people who are doing criminal acts so far, people who may or may not need some training in the field of information, so that they can only rule those terms that appear in this sphere. And I'm also asking another question, and that is, is there a record in the judiciary, let's say, how many crimes have been committed so far in the last few years, that can be brought under this law? Have we had examples of such crimes and how many of these crimes have been committed so far in our case-law? Article 10 speaks of jurisdiction and the organisation of courts. It says: "The district court in Belgrade, for the territory of the Republic of Serbia, is responsible for the handling of criminal cases under Article 3 of this law. The decision in the second degree shall be governed by a directly higher court. "A directly higher court is Serbia's Supreme Court. Now I ask the promoter, if we require a special department, means a first-degree body, a certain expertise, all the persons in that first-degree body, who will and how will decide in a second-degree procedure if the Supreme Court judges are not sufficiently trained in the field of information technology? How will judges of the Supreme Court who are not and are not subject to training, how will they decide in a second-degree procedure on these matters in this area? This is just another proof that this is not well-conceived enough and that this law, proposed at this point, should not and could not be adopted. Also, what is controversial here is the disputed funds that need to be allocated, and it is likely that here for this year to be allocated from the Republic of Serbia's budget, about 50 million dinars. These are quite large funds, given the state not only of the judiciary, but of the whole state in all its spheres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16819	We have four or five more amendments. You want to finish this or take a break. Let's get this over with. Okay, thank you. I realized no one's on Article 10 anymore. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Milica Gavrilovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Branislav Rankic. Here you go. We'll take a break when we've finished these three or four amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16820	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 12 is very brief: "The ministry responsible for the affairs of the judiciary provides adequate premises and all other technical conditions necessary for the efficient work of the Special Prosecutor's Office and the Council. We ask that this member be deleted, for the reason that here in the financial resources needed to implement this law provides that 50 million dinars, namely 49,610,000 dinars, should be allocated to the budget from the additional funds to implement this law. According to us, as you've already heard from the representatives of the SRS, a law like this is completely unnecessary. Given that this problem in the largest number is subject to the Criminal Code, procedures could be conducted before the current judicial frameworks and before the present courts. There is one illogicality here, and it is said that the Third Municipal Court will be the seat of the newly formed council and prosecutor's office, but 24,610,000 dinars have been allocated for room equipment. I'm guessing there won't be any new rooms, I'm guessing there's already some means to work in the Third Municipal Court, starting with computer and other techniques. This 25 million is money that will practically be spent on other purposes. Clearly, because of the financial resources needed to be provided in the budget, and the budget is being charged as you know, mostly from spending, from citizens' pockets. I would like you to accept this amendment and not fully adopt this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16821	Thank you, Mr. Rankic. Is anyone else reporting on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16822	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 13. The bill I'm asking for, of course, as in the other amendments to the MPs of the SRS, that it be deleted. We in the SRS think there is no need to specifically provide for state authorities to combat various forms of crime, because already in the existing justice system there are able judges and prosecutors to sue and judge various forms of crime. Also, when it comes to high-tech, high-tech crime or, as one colleague said, low-tech, low-tech crime, they are foreseen in the existing Blood Law against computer data security and can be particularly guided under the existing justice system. The formation of a special prosecutor's office, court departments and anti-high-tech crime services is unnecessary, and we in the SRS believe it opens the way for various types of machinations. Just to remind ourselves, we have a law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in the prevention of organised crime, then the same thing in the war crimes procedure, and here, you are now proposing this proposal to pass a law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in the fight against high-tech, or, however, high-tech crime. Because, I guess, the amendment of MP Milica Gavrilovic was accepted by the government of the Republic of Serbia, so it changes the bill's name, as far as I could tell. In addition to all these various forms of organisation of judges and prosecutors, there are various types of agencies, bureaus, centres, etc. That means we're increasing the state administration anyway. It's not a problem in the number of people who are going to work in the administration, or in the prosecution and the court. The problem is, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, because there is no source of income. The source of public income is growing weaker, the economy is failing, the taxpayers are no longer able to settle their obligations to the state. Simply, no production, services are becoming less profitable, etc. etc. So this law is unnecessary, excessive, and it changes the existing Law on Courts and their jurisdiction. Special Prosecutor's Office, as part of specialized bodies and special judicial departments, should not exist. I'll remind you of one example, we have a law and according to it an organized judiciary and a prosecution in the repression of organised crime. You know by the case of the special public prosecutor, Mr. Jovan Prijic, what abuses and violations of the law exist in his work and functioning. Isn't that an educational example enough for you not to repeat such a mistake? If we are talking about highly sophisticated crime, its forms and mode of action, or occurrence, I will state one comparison. The story dates back to July 14, 1999 from the USA Day newspaper in America, titled "United Nations, Evidence: Connecting Serbs to War Crimes". The journalist of the text is Jack Kelly, and the alleged crime scene by the Yugoslav Army, then the Yugoslav Army, the village of Kusa in the municipality of Gjilana. Namely, journalist Jack Kelly, due to a highly sophisticated crime, or in a different form, was expelled from work in investigator Mark Memot's investigation. Why? Because the man published it, he got it in a highly sophisticated way, of course it's a CD, a source of information that's not true, that was false, and that's why he was expelled from work. The investigation was conducted by investigative judge Mark Memot. It's about the false data that was delivered to this journalist Jack Kelly, no one else, Natasa Kandic. It is not only that a woman acts on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but it can be said from this example: "ours and worlds". During that time, the state authorities did not react to us, they were not allowed, of course, against the U.S. and Soroš exhibits of certain NGOs in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16823	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the legislator's representative, Zoran Stojkovic want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I'm taking a break until 3:15.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16824	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon work. One more good day. Let me start by informing you about the way we're going to work today. As we announced, some MPs during the morning work, today we will end the debate in particular, (only on deposit insurance) - 9th item of the agenda: Proposal for a deposit insurance law and 10th item of the agenda: Proposal for a law on the Deposit Insurance Agency, of course, on the business condition that we finish before 18.00 hours of discussion in details of the 9th point, and then we would end up with a small number of amendments, and tomorrow we would continue from 10.00 hours with the 11th point of the agenda, a debate in particular. National MP Rajko Baralic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16825	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, that's the member who gives you the authority to schedule board meetings. I'm sorry, since the new Rules of Procedure have arrived, I haven't learned what member it is yet. I'll learn tomorrow, my word of honor. There was a major disturbance in the supply of oil products necessary for agricultural work and came in the middle of the tourist season. I suggest that you, President, in accordance with the powers, schedule a joint session of four committees: for the industry (which is responsible for energy), trade and tourism, the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Finance, and that a precise report on what this is all about. Why is there no elevator in Serbia's stock reserves, which has led to a catastrophic supply situation? The war was over long ago, the sanctions were lifted long ago. It is the level of your powers and I ask you to do so, because it is practically impossible to do all these jobs at this point without any significant complications happening. In addition, a large number of private transporters object to oil derivatives that refineries without criteria share diesel-fuels and other derivatives only to the NaP and Southpetrol gas stations. There's work here for the Antimonopoly Commission. I ask you to assess, in accordance with your powers, to schedule a public session of these four committees, with the presence of four ministers and other people who can explain what this is all about and whether the problem will be solved. What is particularly important, the National Assembly should receive a report on whether this country has a stock reserve in diesel fuel. If there isn't, why isn't there? It's a serious sign that the state is not doing its job properly. Please, in accordance with your authority, do so and thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16826	Yeah, I'll check my options, and I'll try to schedule this session tomorrow. I'll talk to the board presidents and the ministers. I think the initiative is precisely in the spirit of what we wanted to achieve in the new rules and in the spirit of this body as the highest level of government in the country. Thank you for your initiative. We move to work on the 9th item of the agenda: – PROPOSING THE LAW ON OSIGURANJ DEPOZITA (specificities) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Stefan Zankov, Radisa Ilic, Branislav Janković, Zlatan Jovanovic, Natasa Jovanovic, Petar Jojic, Srdjo Komazec, Bozidar Koprivica, Ljubomir Kragović, Blagoje Kravinović, Milorad Krstinović, Bore Kutić, Nikola Lalic, Srboljub Marinković, Dragoslav Milković, Vitomir Miloševic, Nenad Mitrović, Dragan Živović, Prvislav Savivić, Dragoljub Simonović, Slavisa Slavović, Sulejman Spaho, Branislav Stevanovic, Stojan Tintor and Stojan Cvetković. You've received amendments from the Finance Committee. You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. The government and the Finance Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16827	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the question has already been touched in principle, why do we need a deposit insurance law? Apparently, in order to protect citizens in case the bank loses its work permit, i.e. to let the bank go bankrupt, so that Article 1 of the law applies, it reads: "This law regulates the compulsory insurance of the deposit of natural persons with banks, in order to protect the deposit of those persons in the event of bank bankruptcy. “When a man looks at it like this, he reads it, he does not think it over, he would say, ‘This is fine. We see how the state cares about citizens, (it's about natural persons) in case some bank doesn't operate well, that there's some deposit that's going to be in some reserves, in case the bank loses his license to work. Before the bank's bankruptcy or liquidation is completed, the citizens will be able to repay that money, which they have put on savings or on some other basis in that bank. Looking at that side, everything seems to be fine. However, given who is leading the policy, especially when it comes to banks, one specific, not so small, hint of doubt occurs. So, according to the current way of disbursement of natural persons, the Republic of Serbia was in charge. So, state. The state granted a license to work on business banks and other banks, the state guaranteed citizens' roles in these banks. In the event that the state withdraws the bank's right to continue its activities, (or if it will lose its license, whether it will go bankrupt, into liquidation), it would be the state, which would have to settle the citizens out of its budget. That's how it's been so far and it's been a big problem in this government. Why would the state store funds that citizens lose at a bank? Isn't it easier to make banks themselves, or citizens? That money, the percentage that will be deposited in some deposit, will have to be compensated from somewhere in bank business. Where's he gonna make up for it? It will be compensated from the loans taken by citizens from that same business bank. What's the effect? Not at all. Citizens will settle the deposit through loans and all other taxes given to banks during a debt-confidential relationship. And it wouldn't be a big deal if there wasn't a single climate here right now, that the ruling coalition that runs the finance portfolio, the banking sector, simply has one tendency to destroy the domestic banking system, whether it's private banks or banks that are in social property. What confirms such a single theory is an event from a few months ago, not to say almost a year ago, when the National Bank prescribed conditions that business banks would lend loans. Looks like there are two kinds of banks in the money market. Banks that are close to the authorities and banks that have extremely strict conditions for lending, with high interest and other banks on the market, and which want to operate on market principles. We had a situation where some banks (about a year ago) could be raised with some interest of nine or ten percent on the annual level, at the other 14, 15 and 16%. At the banks where the interest was lower, you could have raised without a jury, with these others where the interest was high, which is why you had to have a jury. Whether 30% of total income should amount to war. It was usually in these banks that were more unfavourable with the jury, with a high interest rate, with a limit of up to 30% and other banks where there were 50% of the salary. What's going on? Then comes the National Bank that prescribes the conditions for a citizen to take credit with the bank. Why? Why don't banks operate on a market principle? So you have extra money, you place it, and if there's much more, its value is lower, so the interest is lower and the credit is cheaper. If there's a shortage of money, that makes the interest bigger. What are the reasons? It seems that the reasons for these, that the business banks that were operating under more unfavourable conditions for citizens have, simply, protection, state, governor of the National Bank of Serbia and minister. Because I don't see why anyone would make such a move that only hurts the citizens. With such a move, banks are forced to ask citizens to accumulate various assets as a means of risk. How much costs can be at a business bank. So far, it has been customary for these costs to be limited to the upper limit, and now the lower limit is limited. It can't be below 1.5% or 2%. What are the banks to which such a political, non-economic, and profit-making procedure of the governors of the National Bank and the Ministry of Finance correspond? They're the National Savings Bank, the Commercial Bank, they're the best fit. Their loans were the most unfavourable on the market and all the conditions they sought to lend to the National Bank forced all other banks to seek the same conditions and Maltas did not equalise the interest rates that were in other banks with those interest rates provided by the National Savings Bank and the Commercial Bank. Maybe some banks and out of control, maybe some banks want to do business, maybe some banks do better business, or they're competition that bothers these two banks, the National Savings and the Commercial Bank. Then why, if the governor breaks his head, what happens when he takes away the bank's work permit? Why would the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia break their heads from where they would provide funds to compensate citizens who had money on savings in these banks? Simply, to solve this problem, a new law is given in the congregation procedure of the Deposit Insurance Act. Now every bank will have to pay a certain amount of money each citizen leaves with it as deposit insurance. From month to month. They say 0.1% -- not much. It's not much on the monthly level, but on the annual level it's 1.2%. Where's the money going? Does anyone at all wonder what banks do with money that citizens leave on savings? They're going through other loans. Who's using these loans? Those other citizens who don't have the money to provide themselves with someone good. Now these citizens will indirectly pay back the money to the people who left the money at the banks that went either into liquidation or bankruptcy. So there's no concern for the citizens here. The only concern here is how to manipulate banks, how to open or close banks, how to make a circle of privileged banks, that it doesn't cost a lot of the state under the pretext that it's for the benefit of the citizens, and only the citizens have it. These are the real reasons, not as it says in Article 1— that this law regulates the mandatory provision of deposits of natural persons to banks in order to protect the deposits of those persons in the event of bank bankruptcy. In any case, the citizens will have every bankruptcy of every bank to pay with their money and how fat.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16828	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee propose not to accept this amendment. The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16829	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2 with a proposal to delete Article 2. The SRS has otherwise submitted amendments to all the members of this deposit guarantee law with a proposal to delete, because it believes that this law is not good and in some way puts NBS in a position to additionally burden banks and reduce the interest paid by business banks on deposits to natural persons. This Article mainly deals with the explanation of the concepts referred to in the text of the draft law. It is well known that in Serbia today there are no many insurance companies, many banks' exposures from both the country and abroad are being opened, various companies with huge capital appear, and they are investing in insurance via banks with which they operate. Why didn't the minister try to set up a barrier for companies, banks, insurance companies that were literally spoken overnight and appeared on the market with huge capital? There's a lot of them, and now they're given a chance to secure and legalize their own capital created by who knows how. Huge amounts of money revolve around insurance, there's the NBS, there's the Deposit Insurance Agency and the inevitable deposit insurance fund. For all obligations not fulfilled by the agency, there is the Republic of Serbia. The finance minister often boasts that he is responsible for large foreign reserves in the country, but does not consider that Serbian citizens are impoverished and that they do not benefit from it. Why don't you get rid of Mr. Minister's bag so he doesn't import derivatives, not to let the people rot in gas stations all over Serbia. Where they gave you "two minus" (2-) for the feasibility study, if they went to Serbia, they'd stay in some parking lot with a canister in their hand to wait for diesel. Banks should depreciate depositors from their resources in any way should avoid the creation of agencies that carry greater burdens behind them due to an increased administration. Bank funds need to be controlled, it should be done by an existing inspection, not imposed on agencies. In any case, the SRS advocates the security of saving citizens, and this is how agencies themselves determine the rate of the three-month premium, which represents, above all, great power without adequate control and has a significant impact on the financial system. All of this will reflect the growth of interest on loans, which will affect the decline of production in Serbia, which entails other negative phenomena that significantly threaten citizens' standards. In the end, why isn't the NBS in control instead of the agency that you're giving a really great power without supervision. If the NBS already holds on to a special deposit of the Agency's funds, there's no reason for it to deal with deposit insurance operations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16830	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16831	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's see what is regulated by this Article 2 what are the concepts of this law, in particular, which are natural persons, as this law says. Therefore, in point (1) of Article 1(1), "the deposit is a dinar or foreign currency claim to a bank arising from a cash deposit, a deposit on savings, a bank's current account or another cash account and on the basis of which the bank's legal or contractual obligation to recover funds is created". The question is, what's the bank doing with that money, is it in the deposit, is it in the deposit by sight? It is perfectly normal for the bank to place these funds further on the market, not receive money in savings from citizens without having its own interest. Now, for every penny that's on savings, part of the income has to go to the Deposit Insurance Agency, which will have that money. What happens then when the bank decides to put the money on the market with a certain interest. First, he's going to have to calculate what the risk is, (and it's prescribed by the NBS) and then he's going to have to determine the costs, (and the lower limit has already been prescribed by the NBS) and then he's going to have to provide the funds to cover this deposit, and then he's going to calculate with his income. Who's gonna use credit-to-business banks at banks? The credit will be used by citizens who don't have a lot of money, who want to get to the most common good. Most of the time, citizens are in charge of washing machines, for stoves, for making or reconstructing some part of the house or apartment, which is why loans are being raised. It's rare for anyone to raise a loan to buy something that's really valuable, which represents some luxury, a status symbol, or something like that. No problem for them, they don't need credit, and if they need it, it's to bridge in a month or two until they get the money on the other side. So, who wants this joke from the governors of the NBS, the Deposit Insurance Agency and the Ministry of Finance, (and it's all united in a political party called the G17) to pay? They'll pay the citizens. And to make things worse, they'll pay for taking their money on credit, directly or indirectly. In point 2) - "A secure deposit is the deposit of a natural person providing the agency referred to in Article 3(1) of this Act, which does not cover deposits". Be careful now, "the physical person who performs the activity for profit gain", (sub-point (1) reads). It's already the concept of a business bank. Now the question is, why and their money so you don't get insurance? You've made everyone who's running any payment traffic work at a business bank, and so far, the NBS has been doing it, and now they're doing business banks. You gave them those powers. Now you do not guarantee for these assets that the business banks have, those who carry out certain activities have in the business banks and which serve to carry out that activity. Who's gonna make those people look bad? There's a big accumulation of money. Someone's gonna get hurt, and I'm serious. If one of the major banks enters one such liquidation or bankruptcy procedure that has many depositors using their accounts to carry out their business, they can do inexplicable damage to the market. In this way you can control increasingly important institutions in the state, including local self-government budgets, which are mostly deposited with business banks. So, if the governor says, this bank loses its license to work, the budget of some local self-government and the Republic budget, they can be damaged in this way. Furthermore, it does not cover the deposits of the Director, a member of the Governing Board or of the Supervisory Board of the Bank. The question is, aren't they citizens? However, the director, board member or supervisory board, often because of the bank's policy, cannot be elected unless they have their own earnings, the related ones do not receive salary on the current accounts of these commercial banks they manage. I guess that's some insurance for them, that if they keep money at their business bank or other banks, it's also a guarantee to other citizens that they can put money on savings or as you like to say, depositing. So, the bank shareholder, then, is not the one who is by some miracle, which is mostly citizens who are through some privatisation of a bank, but it will be now and then, so they have no right to ask their deposits back from the Deposit Insurance Agency, but in any case, the Agency, for their savings money at that bank, will take a commission of 0.1% per month. Family members referred to in point (2), (3) and (4), which means that even family members do not have the right to be compensated in this case. Here comes subpoint (7) of point 2), which is extremely interesting, which reads: "which have been created as a result of money laundering in the sense of the law governing the prevention of money laundering". Now the question is, do you really know who in this country is laundering money, which are people, why are you just waiting for the bank they're working on to be closed, so you take the money. Isn't it simpler to arrest them nicely, use that documentation that exists as evidence? The money, in any case, that's earned by illegal and illegal actions belongs to the state and a completely "peaceful Back" everything is perfectly fine. As any member of this bill is always left to doubt that someone like this simply wants to put certain banks in a privileged position in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16832	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, MP Branislav Jankovic, the Government and the Committee on Finance, proposed not to accept this amendment. The word is made by MP Branislav Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16833	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on article 141. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I submit an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a deposit insurance law in which I propose that the said member be deleted. It is quite obvious that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is in office of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and therefore the National Assembly sessions are set against the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, three days before the meeting, to prevent MPs from submitting amendments and to inform the public of Serbia through the explanation that, as in this case, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is only determined to continue robbing Serbian citizens. It is important to stress that the principle debate on this bill was ten days ago, so, due to the flow of time, many good proposals have been forgotten. As for the proposal, Article 3 states and the National Bank of Serbia guarantee natural persons for funds deposited with banks. Given that bank operating permits are granted by the State, or the National Bank, it is perfectly normal to be eligible for the deposit of natural persons' funds and there is no need to additionally burden banks, or to reduce the interest paid by the commercial banks to the deposit of natural persons. Such a law will increase even more expensive loans used by legal and physical persons. In a further analysis, Article 3, paragraph 1, states: "The bank is obliged to secure deposits of natural persons with the Deposit Insurance Agency"; in paragraph 2. – it is said that there are also branches of a foreign bank in the territory of the Republic of Serbia; and in Section 3. – that the branches of the domestic bank abroad, where the country in which it operates has not provided deposits and where it has secured deposits in the country in which it operates, and the National Bank of Serbia finds that the system is more unfavourable for the depositor under the deposit insurance system set out in this law. We are particularly bothered by attitude 1 because it is generally known that the SRS is principally against the formation of agencies because this means multiplying bureaucracy and further dragging its hands into the pocket of all taxpayers. If we know that the director of the personal income accounting agency has a salary and a coefficient of 10 and a member of the council coefficient 8, it is clear what the funds are.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16834	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16835	It is already in Article 3 of this law that you can see exactly what the proposing's intention was. It is stated in point 1: The Bank is obliged to provide deposits of natural persons to the Deposit Insurance Agency established by a special law (hereinafter referred to as the Agency). Let's get back to Article 1. A bill that says: "This law regulates the compulsory insurance of deposit of natural persons with banks to protect the deposits of those persons in the event of bank bankruptcy". We have a deposit insurance agency. The money you get from insurance is given to that agency. That doesn't seem strange to anyone, but there's a little problem. The agency is in charge of the liquidation and bankruptcy of banks, and there's the problem now. So it's secured by the deposit insurance agency, and that same agency runs the liquidation and bankruptcy of banks that lose their license to work. If it is established, and it has been found that the governor of the National Bank of Serbia is from G17, that the finance minister from G17, that the new director of the Deposit Insurance Agency will be from G17 - here is the complete control of the banking system, and you can control literally everything in the state, Ministry of Defence, so you don't need Davinic. You don't need Davinic to destroy the army, Dinkic is enough. He doesn't give money to the military and that's it. The interior ministry has no money, the minister does not give – and the job is done. With local self-government, you will close banks that do not provide, which do not open deposits on budget funds in certain business banks, but which you are fond of, which allow for income. If a more serious deposit is tried at another bank, that bank goes bankrupt, liquidation. If they agree to share the market with privileged commercial banks, it may come out of bankruptcy without being liquidated. In point 2. - "The branches of a foreign bank in the territory of the Republic of Serbia are obliged to secure the deposits of natural persons with the Agency on the basis of a decision by the National Bank of Serbia – if there is no deposit insurance system in the country of headquarters or not included in that system." Is there really any bank you represent as a foreign bank, is it really the founder of that bank some kind of bank from abroad? Is she really behind some business bank that works under some foreign name? What's the interest of that bank? Even current accounts opened abroad by this bank do not want, banks operating on the domestic market under the same name do not want to pay and vice versa, do not want to recognise each other. Why? Because here in the first place they're insecure about you, you're prone to a variety of malfeasances, you're willing to close even the world's banks just to get yourself some kind of profit, some kind of profit, something to smudge, as our people would say. So, just a bank that's foreign, doing business here, taking money from our citizens, doesn't have to be secured by a deposit insurance agency. What if you take away that bank's work permit? What kind of property does that bank have? Nothing. There is some funds for the reserve to be given to the National Bank, deposits, 15 or 20 per cent of the founding role or capital of the bank. That's all you got. They didn't pay the agency, the domestic banks did, their loans were more expensive. So, she's going to take money to save the citizens, she's going to place various loans, maybe money will just pump out of the state, money from the citizens of Serbia, (not her own money, but our money). At one point, he says, we can't pay the citizens back, let the agency do it, but we're not in that agency's system, so they're going to have to pay the citizens of Serbia again. Furthermore, a branch of the domestic bank abroad is obliged to provide natural persons' deposits to the agency based on a decision by the National Bank of Serbia in case the country in which it operates failed to secure the deposit. What do we care what happens to business banks that do business abroad and who gives them permission to work? The competent authority there, so let him betray them and let him answer for their deposits. Why would they suit me? Now here, in my opinion, one member, or point that is too high, when in the country in which the business is provided with deposits, the National Bank of Serbia finds that the system is more unfavourable for depositors than the deposit insurance system established by this law. You know what, I really don't think you can convince someone who's in banking what's cheaper for him, so who knows he's more expensive than forcing him into a law like this. This member is completely insane, because he simply actuates the principles of market business. It's normal for someone who has to spend some money in a particular deposit to watch where it's more favourable, where it's cheaper. Why would that be a concern for the National Bank of Serbia, is that his job?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16836	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. On the same amendment, MP Momir Markovic. Here, you have five minutes. I welcome the initiative that MPs who support the Socialist International sit together. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16837	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will draw your attention to another segment that applies to this and to many other amendments submitted by the MPs of the SRS. In the light of the amendments (the second paragraph of this argument), the applicant Branislav Jankovic, on behalf of the SRS, says: "The state and the National Bank of Serbia guarantee that the funds for the bank's misdemeanours are guaranteed by natural persons. Given that bank operating permits are granted by the State, or the National Bank, it is perfectly normal for them to be eligible for the deposit of natural persons’ funds and there is no need to additionally burden banks, or to reduce the interest paid by the commercial banks on deposits to natural persons. This law will increase even more expensive loans used by both legal and physical persons." We received the opinion of the Serbian Government (on all amendments), and the opinion on the amendment tabled by MP Branislav Jankovic said, "The amendment is not accepted, given that there are no reasons to explain why the amendments are based on the reasonableness and justification of the solution set out in the text of the amendment." Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I think it's a falsification, signed by Mr. Kostunica, as Prime Minister, but I'm almost convinced that he's such an inconclusive argument, why the amendment refuses, has neither been accepted nor signed. Please check whether Kostunica, the Prime Minister, signed what was delivered to us on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as MPs and promoters of these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16838	Thank you. There's no need, as you know, to sign on behalf, and don't let God put it together, it's a legal obligation. I totally understand your joke. Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee propose not to accept this amendment. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16839	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, now with this article four, the question is, what do we need this agency for, what do we need with deposit insurance? Article 4(1) states: "The Agency shall provide deposits up to the level of the amount secured". In the second position of the same member, "The Republic of Serbia guarantees obligations under Article 1". That means, unless the agency has money, it will have to return from the Republic of Serbia's budget again. Now the question is, why are we even doing this, why are we doing this now, why are we building some deposit insurance agency where it seems to me the only benefit is having the director of that agency, the people who are working in that agency, the board members, the board members. Who's gonna have to pay for that? Citizens of the Republic of Serbia. How? Through now, he's already collecting credits from credit-provided banks, because money will have to be poured into the deposit insurance agency. If the agency doesn't have enough money to pay it back to the citizens, and it seems to me that the salaries are in the National Bank of Serbia, or that our governor has over 300,000 dinars, he will probably take it from that agency, too, so it will have to be done from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So, twice we robbed the citizens, the first time we took their money, paid the agency, paid some money back to the bank for the first time robbing the citizens who took the credit, and the second time if the agency doesn't have the funds to pay the citizens back, then it's going to have to come out of the budget. Who's filling the budget? It's the citizens of Serbia again. Don't get carried away by that story about someone else paying taxes and contributing. They pay the citizens. Anything sold on the market, any value to be realised, any profits, on any basis, directly or indirectly paid by citizens. In any case, the tax is an entirely legal form of a state racket. Then think a little bit better about when you're yelling people's skin off their backs, whether it's the job of someone who has that money to work in their interests or in their own interest. For a long time, a circulatory letter goes towards all local self-governments that the number of workers in local self-governments is reduced by 10, 15, 20%, etc., under the threat that unless local self-government does so, they will not receive transfer funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. What are we doing now? We're gonna throw people out on the street! What's that? Some! Probably politically inappropriate! Who are we going to hire in the agencies? It's similar to us. That's what the G17 thinks, that's what Minister Dinkic thinks. Everything that's done seems to be working in that direction. There's no other motive. So to secure a job, a source of income for some of our friends, relatives, etc., under the pretext that it's in the citizens' interest. That because of the pressure the Ministry of Finance puts on local self-government, public enterprises, public administration authorities, to reduce the number of workers, to get people fired from work, that doesn't matter. You're not ours, they shouldn't eat, they shouldn't drink, they shouldn't have children, they shouldn't train them, they shouldn't go to sea. They don't need anything. Then you better kill them.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16840	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16841	Gentlemen Members of Parliament, as far as Article 4 is concerned, I think that this bill is unnecessary, for two reasons: first, paragraph 1 says: "The Agency provides deposits up to the level of the amount secured". Article 2 shall specify exactly what the determined amount is. Article 2 paragraph 3 accurately provides that the amount secured is worth 3,000 euros in dinar equivalent. So, Article 4 of Section 1, we're just repeating it. It is unnecessary in the same law twice to present the same text. So it's an unnecessary text. On the other hand, Article 2 reads: "The Republic of Serbia guarantees obligations under Article 1". The law on the National Bank of Serbia as a general law also provides for such a commitment. The law on the National Bank of Serbia is general law. He, as such, is a law of greater value than this law. So there's one unnecessary thing again. On the other hand, the Foreign Exchange Law also provides for the guarantee of foreign exchange transactions by the Republic of Serbia, or the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Item 2 as well as attitude 1. are unnecessary in this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16842	Thank you. Are any of the other MPs answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee propose not to accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16843	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in my ten-year parliamentary practice I had everything in my hands and I could see – various answers from various governments, but this is the height of insolence and insolence. First, to realize that we are in a kind of time machine. What you were thinking and what you had the opportunity to hear from Minister Dinkic seven or more days ago, is now back on the agenda. It's all the same, but Dinkic's not here. This explanation, which is written under indigo for all SRS deputies, is the highlight of this minister and this government's insolence. It's something I've never faced before, because no predecessor has ever thought of such insolence. I have to read it for the citizens of Serbia, and then explain to you what it means to do business in Article 5 for which I have proposed, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, to delete it. So I speak primarily to the citizens of Serbia, because those who called for a session like this have no conscience. The session was called with a large agenda of 45 points and a set of these laws from 9th to 16th in the most express way possible. You are well aware of the fact that the SRS on the day we spoke of the law in principle said it was completely unnecessary for the Assembly to ambush one single minute with such proposals of the law. That's why, in order to prevent these laws from being passed, we have written amendments, asking each of the proposed members to be deleted, with the argument that I am giving you. As each of the SRS MPs, starting from Stefan Zankov to Article 1 and until this amendment to Article 5 and so on, gave his proposal to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly, above all, that this law is not passed, the Government, beware that this is impertinence, with such a call for a session, with laws that are not necessary at all and which will not contribute to a better standard, the business of banks, but as an opportunity to institutionally another group or one group of one and the same people, put in control of the banking and financial system. Imagine the reasons for the amendment to Article 5, Article 1, and so on. Now they say, "Amendment is not accepted, since the reasons for the reasons which point to the justification and justification of the solution set out in the text of the amendment are not given." First, not in the text of the amendment, because it says, "It's deleted," what you're going to do, for a normal man and for someone who wants to realize that the law is unnecessary, if it says anything, it's deleted, so there's no reason, you don't need a better explanation than that. No, you wanted one, you meant perfidan, a way to play with the MPs of the SRS by giving these arguments. You point us to that, that's how you could give us the amendments, where those members are deleted, we give you this answer. Our request to delete Article 5 which says, as I suggested in my amendment that the Agency lays down regulations for which it is legally authorised, is not the same as your argument. Because if I suggest that Article 5 be deleted, this is based on the following arguments: First, regulatory and supervisory control over the domestic banking system, (if in these domestic accounts also these foreign banks, which become domestic) is both strengthened and raised to the highest possible level in 2003 when the laws on banks and the Law on the National Bank of Serbia were passed. Secondly, in this broad spectrum of tasks now under his paw, Radovan Jelasic, as governor, means he who manages the central bank, it is also possible that in the event of bank bankruptcy, he appears in this regulatory sense and runs that interventionist policy. As for the start of the establishment of agencies, the problem arose at the time, followed by the Serbian Banking Sunflower when the Bank Rehabilitation Agency was adopted. You now tell me, ladies and gentlemen who support this bill how it is possible to vote for something like this, followed by the Deposit Insurance Agency, when you know that this bank recovery agency has not only saved domestic banks, or Serbian banks that had so-called banks. Part of social capital, it's already completely shut down the national banks and put people out on the streets. The small door was introduced by those who do not think about the Serbian economy in a way to help it, but based their business on, above all, the population sector. This relationship is about 80 to 20 in favour of the population. Why? That's what my colleague Arsic was talking about. Because these credits are for broad spending, (and that's what citizens need most) bait for people, I don't mean gullible people, but people are forced to take such loans, so expensive loans, with literally interest rates, because they don't have basic income, factories don't work, they don't have jobs, they don't pay small. Where to buy a fridge, a computer, a stove, everything he needs. Many people are in debt and are taking these loans with a mandatory deposit of 20% since January of this year to pay electricity bills. Is that something foreign to you? You do not live in the state of Serbia although Dinkic has been expelled from these events, do you know how hard people live, that they have nothing to school children from. On the other hand, neither those to whom I have mentioned these laws, which keep that central regulatory policy by the governors and ministers, on the one hand to the banking sector, even they are not satisfied with your behaviour. They tell you and tell you – you will not listen to us, specifically when it comes to the Financial Lising Act, which we will talk about later, have and how great objections to your legal projects and what, above all, these experts Dinkic and Jelasic imagined. There is also a letter where they clearly signed, stating all their objections because, and what proved to be incorrect in walking from the moment he entered into force, that law is not applicable in practice. This manner of you, here, in Article 5, trying to regulate it, you say – the agency will pass the rules laid down by law, self-destruct the original law by giving the Agency an opportunity to bring unlimited number of regulations, not to jump into your mouth, but to a future group of people, director of that Agency, who will be from the same click, board of directors and all those to whom the state has to give money for the initial fund of business. You say -- go ahead, do what you want, and the state, that is, the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, will guarantee it, therefore, because the money, which is the beginning of this fund, is the money that comes from the budget, meaning, of all citizens. It is amazing that you are not dealing with what is today the biggest problem in Serbia, which is the banking sector, the one as it was imagined and put on the feet of Jelasic and Dinkic, on the one hand, and on the other hand the overindebted Serbian economy. Since it did not occur to you that in this direction you are thinking and passing some law that will allow these economic operators to receive loans with favourable return periods, with graces – periods that would be good for the Serbian economy, with favourable interest rates, to revive production. It's just amazing that you know it's like that, if you know it at all, and the indicators are, mathematics is cruel, very clear. In May alone, compared to last year, nearly 5% of industrial production fell. You boast that Bush gave you a blank to export 4,000 products to America. All these days, your export experts were killed, listed, listed, and this Minister Parivodić and the others and came up with five items, there is nothing further. There's nothing left to get out of here, anywhere. That's why it's unacceptable for you to propose laws like this. Since the minister is not here, you tell him, above all, you from a party whose member he is, that it is extremely immoral and cynical that such arguments are given to the MPs – that we have not justified enough our reasons in the amendment, where we ask that this law does not exist and that the member is deleted, so he gives us such answers. This will all one day, to those who have proposed to get on their noses, and what you'll all be carrying together, for voting for such laws, political condemnation of citizens in elections, and it's no harm. Because we come who are much better, smarter, more vispredicate, above all, honest to manage the banking sector. But unfortunately, until then, citizens will get hurt, because for this, as well as for this morning, for tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, which is on the agenda, for the funds, for the agencies, for the various directors and boards of directors you take from the citizens. Just ask them for money, give them money every day, and people get hungrier and poorer.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16844	The word has the People's MP Momir Markovic; you have three and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16845	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm not going to tell the story again about the unnecessaryness of all the agencies you've introduced since the beginning, when it occurred to you that in this way you could hire a part of your staff that brought out the "bubbler revolution". I'll talk about something else. I understand why the minister isn't here. The season started, festivals, live music at the cafes. He's probably setting up a gig somewhere with Mr. Keb. I expect at least they to be the ones he assigned to sit here and listen to the MPs, because, above all, this is the disrespect of the National Assembly and us as representatives of the people. National MP Natasa Jovanovic has tabled an amendment to Article 5, where he requests that the member be deleted. Why? If we link this amendment (to Article 5) with an amendment to Article 4 where it is said "the agency provides a deposit up to the level of the amount secured", which is up to 3,000 euros. "The Republic of Serbia guarantees obligations under Article 1." Article 5 says, "The Agency shall lay down the rules for which it is authorised by law." This same law will authorise it to regulate the deposit insurance fund by regulations, to regulate the premiums of insurance, to regulate the payments of the amounts secured, to bring provisions that, in the end of the line, since for deposits, the government is no longer able to pay the amounts secured, the state is behind it. The agency will lay down regulations that will also be in charge of the country in charge of Serbia. It'll go out of the budget, and the budget is filled with citizens' pockets. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, you from the government, if a two tours happen to be attended by Minister Dinkic, inform him that he has dragged his hand to the citizens in his pocket. There's nothing left to look for there.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16846	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you are, People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16847	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's a valid reason to delete this member and a few other grounds. I'll mention three. The first is in the following: Article 5 states: "The Agency is laying down rules for which it is authorised by law". Can we allow, is it also appropriate to allow something outside the law? That's understood. Why enter it into the legal provision? Another thing: we define deposit insurance with this bill. The Agency is a special draft law. The one who wrote this law was most likely copied from some of the other laws we have close to us, primarily referring to the Deposit Insurance Act and the establishment of the Deposit Insurance Agency in BiH. These two institutes are united by one legal law, so it is appropriate to install an agency in that legal regulation. So, if we're talking deposit insurance, then we need to decidently specify only the provisions relating to deposit security. The agency is a special aspect, a special law that we will consider later. (President: Mr. Buha, time is up. ) In Article 28. The proposal for a law on the establishment of a Deposit Insurance Agency is stated, as regards the adoption of general acts, that we reiterated by one law which had to be incorporated into another law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16848	National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 6th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee propose not to accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16849	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment of MP Petar Jojic, who tabled the amendment on behalf of the SRS, was rejected by the proposings with the same explanation. It means that the reasons set out in this amendment are not clear enough and that the proposaler, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, cannot accept this amendment. The explanation almost takes half the side. You can see quite nicely in part two that and how it fits the amendment submitted on behalf of the SRS. I read the explanation, not for your sake, because you have it in front of you and you do not read it, but for the sake of the citizens of Serbia. It means, "The state and the NBS are guaranteeing physical faces for funds deposited at banks. Given that the permits to work for banks are granted by the State, or the National Bank, it is perfectly normal for them to be eligible for the deposit of natural persons' funds and there is no need to additionally burden banks, or to increase the interest paid by business banks on deposits to natural persons." Such a law will increase even more expensive loans used by legal and physical persons anyway. So interest on loans is reduced by sight, and interest on credit is increased. What do you say in Article 6? "The Agency and the National Bank of Serbia share information regarding deposit insurance." In point 2. - "The National Bank of Serbia timely informs the Agency of the measures taken in the process of control of the credit and legal operations of banks". Now that it's the agency, her original name wasn't the deposit insurance agency. Its real name is – the agency for the recovery, liquidation and bankruptcy of banks. This is now just some nicer name that is regulated by the new law, and we know the disastrous consequences of the agency's work – 29 domestic banks are closed through the agency and then the governor of the National Bank of then Yugoslavia, Mladjan Dinkic. Then the minister comes out for this pay phone and says that we had the best reform of the banking system of all the countries of Southeast Europe. The best reform means – destroying, closing all banks, robbing their assets, renting their business space, certain, privileged banks that will finance further bankruptcy of the liquidation of these banks, though small money, because the business space is located in the most exclusive parts of all cities in the territory of the Republic. That's the agency's job. Article 5 says, "The Agency is laying down the rules for which it is authorised by law." The only regulations that the agency can make are: their labour rules, their reward rules, their systematicization of jobs, those are decisions that one agency can make. It works in accordance with the law and cannot pass regulations as sublegal acts. That's why we have the government of the Republic of Serbia to do the job. If it is a legal act, then this National Assembly, not some agency, the Deposit Insurance Agency, or a closed agency, should have destroyed a complete banking system. Why? For the robbery! How was that robbery done? The date of closure of large domestic banks coincides exceptionally with the date on which the Western European currency swap begins for the euro. You even made the wrong assessment at one point. You said - our citizens have four, possibly five billion marks, we need that money to get them out of their straws, to get it out of the country, so we can import electricity for Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic, so we can import this kind of oil from Syria that we can't process without other oil that's better quality, so now, here we have oil and oil derivatives disturbances on the market. In one part, you were wrong. They had citizens a little more money than you expected, but so much better for you. You went on with that job and you still don't know where that money went, that famous money that was at various offshore banks that were in Cyprus and so on. One part of the money is known, it ends up on some different islands, and it's a miracle there wasn't some tsunami, otherwise you'd be wrapped in black. The question arises, then, why should this deposit insurance business be done by an agency dealing with the closure, or destruction of banks. Is it that certain banks that are privileged, which are extremely close to and past authorities depicted in DS and this new one in G17, is that all they do for the purpose of political friends of these two political parties?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16850	Replica, deputy head of the G17 Plus Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16851	Ladies and gentlemen, I have been really trying to listen patiently all day long to everything that has been going on here from a number of attempts to challenge the work of the National Assembly, by mentioning the G17 plus and repeating the truth. Of course, that's not going to happen, but I want to say that the baseless mention of the G17 Plus party is really getting tired of it, not just for all of us in this assembly, but for the citizens of Serbia. I ask you to understand that by replacing thesis with repeated repetition, old stories and old untrues, you will not have the unwanted effect. Namely, hand-to-hand in the pocket of citizens is not a flat and fair tax charge, which serves all citizens of Serbia. Putting your hands on the citizens' pockets is when you take the foreign savings, when you rob the government's budget, when you bring it down to the beggar stick, when you melt the country's foreign reserves and when you simply destroy the country financially. I don't think I need to remind us here in the Assembly, or the citizens of Serbia what it is to rob citizens and when the greatest robbery of citizens in the history of Serbia has happened in these areas. Now, when Serbia's budget is stable, when banks in Serbia are stable, when we get a positive feasibility study, which clearly and decidently says that the reform of the banking system is one of the most successful reforms and that is the fact. You can deny it, as well as known economic experts. I believe that you all understand very well in finance and economy, but you will allow some other people in the world, Europe, and also in Serbia, too, in this part of the economy to understand. They said something completely different, that banking reform in Serbia, bank reform in Serbia is one of the most successful reforms. That the banking system in Serbia is now stable, but they don't have to tell you on the side. Simply, banks in Serbia are now being saved. Banks in Serbia lend loans. Last time we were in this country, I almost didn't remember it, and I wasn't too young, I had long-term loans. When did this happen? I ask you, by replacing the thesis, not to confuse both the Assembly and the citizens of Serbia. I would ask you to stick to further discussion, to stick to what we need to discuss, and not to try to make our work more difficult indefinitely, because I really think that the efficiency of the work of the Assembly is what we can contribute to more effective reforms in Serbia and the better lives of our citizens, at the very end of the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16852	The word has been made by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16853	It is symptomatic that the assistant minister is constantly coming out of the booth because she knows that my arguments are murderous and that I will continue where my colleague, Arsic, has stopped, and that is a crucial question for Serbian citizens, where the money is from Cyprus. It's about the creamy story next. And now, as for the amendment to the article submitted by Mr Petar Jojic on the deposit insurance bill – this is another contradiction present. And one question for all of you who are discussing the 9th item of the agenda on the deposit insurance bill, and the next item is the draft law on the deposit insurance agency. Put a little logic into that mind-thinking and in the fact that the economic situation in the country is today. If the Deposit Insurance Act is 99% of what the Deposit Insurance Agency is going to do, I ask you nicely, ladies and gentlemen, since we're at point 9. Where's your Agency? How is it possible for you to think so wisely and so well, and you know that this law, which is yet to be discussed under amendments, will be brought in, and now all that this agency needs to do, is incorporating into the Deposit Insurance Act. It's just amazing. If you've already wanted something, and it's pointless to invent an agency like this that's going to cost, so she must have her own initial fund, and here it's nice to say how she's going to finance herself, because you have a resolution and liquidation agency. So that's something the SRS was against, and what already exists, and this member, Mr. Jojic, submitted the amendment, confirms that I was right. Because you see what that member says -- "The Agency and the National Bank of Serbia are exchanging information on deposit insurance." It is normal for them to exchange information when the NBS Act is centralized at the level of the National Bank and then Article 2, as Mr. Buha explained earlier, is completely independent and immaterial. You say, "The National Bank of Serbia is timely informing the Agency of the measures taken in the process of control of the credit and legality of the bank's business." Why do you need the agency to inform the National Bank that she's doing the job the law has given her, this is just amazing. If it's supposed to be the agency's job, if it needs to be painted or an extended NBS arm, then it's something that's immaterial. There is no conversation on this subject at all with any valid arguments. So it's a whole new body with a director, with a board of directors, with resources, with its headquarters and with its operations already in its original activity has NBS. That's what we want to tell you and convince you that our attitude is right. Besides, if we can't convince you, the citizens see it very well. One million here, two there, 10 there or here, you know, it's easy to throw numbers when you have a budget. You think you're the smartest and you've come up with it best and citizens benefit from it. A report has come from the Commission that you care about very much, and it concerns the assessment of all those transition processes in the country, as well as in the banking sector. They're not very positive for you for the previous year 2004, and you took over power in March 2004. On the contrary, they say that they expected much more from you. So, to operate according to their rules, and otherwise if you turn around and look at any billboard or you are forced to apply for any credit in any bank, because it is mostly done by these sides that do business as domestics, you come up with an incredible truth that is cruel – that you need it and that you have to do it, I mean a large number of Serbian citizens, but you are aware that these interest rates are unbearable to the pockets that Serbian citizens have. These interest rates do not exist anywhere in Europe where such banks have their own business. Give me one country in Europe where any short-term loan is granted, provided there are no deposits with an effective annual interest of 12 to 16%. How is it possible, then, to praise such a banking sector and these alleged reforms, when for what you give these banks, you get less than 5% on an annual basis. That's 5%, and if you get lucky and that's for certain amounts, they say, a minimum of 8,000 euros, and so on. And then what are we talking about? Trust has been restored, but it's not possible, in these banks, and people are being lured by having to, above all, buy goods of broad consumption. It's just enough to look at where the money of an ordinary Serbian citizen is going and to see those who have some minimum credit line to be in debt, you'll see that it's mostly for goods that have some minimum value. It's not about houses or apartments, because it's impossible for anyone to compete under these conditions for such loans, because it's a small number of those, and you know it yourself, that it's a minimum war of 300 and some euros, and what is the average salary? So, the cruel reality is and the facts are like that and that's official statistics when it comes to the relationship of banks to citizens and what citizens have to give you. By the time the time comes that you're talking about, that banks can come out so cordially to the citizens, that Serbia comes out with honey and milk, who's going to believe it, and all of this is promised to us, in fact, to the citizens who trusted you in 2000. And maybe people are hoping, come on, in 2001, there'll be six billion grants, good loans, new apartments, houses, summers, abroad, kids getting schooled, new cars, and now that you look up rebelled against you and those of the licking association, so, six or seven of those leading banks that you've given the opportunity to operate here. So it's not pink, it's just work. It would be good if it were because of the citizens of Serbia, but it's not, it's the wrong policy. This report, which you care about, and as we have had the opportunity as MPs to get from those who control you, as far as this international domestic business sector is concerned, speaks quite differently. Look at the policy of the exchange rate and this fluctuating exchange rate and the euro ratio towards the dinar, whether it is real and whether it is possible for the one who produced it today, but not on the one hand, disabled by an incredibly low ransom price, because don't convince me that it's the same 80 dinars last year and 40 dinars this year. First, it's not, you know, it's twice as much money as last year. It's just amazing that you convince us that people have the opportunity to live better and that these banks are so overjoyed when it comes to the needs of citizens. They're doing their job, they're given the opportunity, the censorship is so big, they fit into these conditions that are prescribed -- here you go, offered or honored, that's how it is, but people have to take it, and on the other hand, they pay a lot of money, and that's what we're talking about here. So, inexcusable are the figures that contribute to our claim that this is unnecessary and all that there are discrepancies, therefore, on one side of the business of these banks that appear in our market and that remain in relation to the regulations and policies of the NBS. She has quite enough options under the law that gave her the opportunity to intervene and do business in her jurisdiction, so this agency absolutely does not need it. It's not a waste of time, it's the only rational approach to this thing, but you don't want to understand it. When you realize it will be too late for you, but it will be fortunate again for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16854	Anyone else on this amendment come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) There is no time for you from the SRS, as 15 minutes is time for the new Rules of Procedure for the amendment. One announcement, the 14th session of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, will be held on Tuesday, July 5th, 2005 at 14.00 p.m., in a third-floor hall. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Srjo Komazec. The government and the Finance Committee propose not to accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16855	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, which Srdjo Komazec, on behalf of the SRS, submitted the amendment, refers to the way the agency was financed. So, in the position of Article 7(1), – "For the purpose of providing funds for deposit insurance, the Agency educates a specific fund of funds (hereinafter: the Deposit Insurance Fund). The Deposit Insurance Fund is educated from: a deposit guarantee premium paid by banks," read further citizens of the Republic of Serbia, "income from investment funds of the Deposit Insurance Fund", meaning the agency should also be a profitable body of the state administration, at least that's how the proposer imagined it, and we will now see how it will be, "the funds achieved by the payment of the Agency's bankruptcy claims on the basis of the payment of the amounts secured". So, the National Bank of Serbia withdraws permission to work for a bank, an agency, if it has money, pays for that money and another bank that closes to charge the commission. The agency for no single dinar can be damaged. If he doesn't have enough resources, he'll tear some of the citizens off the part he's supposed to pay them off so that, God forbid, the director doesn't get paid. However, the next way of funding is already becoming a bit suspicious. It's said the agency can receive donations. What donation? Who will grant a donation to one of the government's authorities? Is the agency involved in humanitarian work? Does it share any help to the citizens, to help people at risk from floods, earthquakes, or other elemental disasters? Who's gonna give one of these organs a donation? The question arises whether this donation may be given for the purpose of some abuse – that it will not be given by a majority owner of a competing bank to shut down and destroy, for example, a bank in bankruptcy or liquidation. Why not? Whatever his donation is when he has one competitor, his income will be multiple. What's the matter? Does it say anywhere that it's forbidden? It doesn't say, which means it's possible. The following position says: "The funds of the Deposit Insurance Fund are used to pay the amounts secured in the event of the bank's bankruptcy to pay the administrative costs related to the payment of those amounts", these are the fees paid by the agency, "by the management of the funds of the Deposit Insurance Fund, as well as the repayment of the loaned funds used for the purposes of this position. According to Article 4(4), "Excludingly from the position of the 3rd member, the assets of the Deposit Insurance Fund can be used to approve the bank's loan if the short-term liquidity of that bank occurs during the winding-up process". Is someone normal to close a bank that's liquid? So, there were some who weren't normal and who were closing liquid banks, but just in case we put this matter in order to be regulated by law, so by chance, God forbid, the agency doesn't do something illegal, and it's not in the interest of citizens and other participants in the financial race to survive in these areas. "Creation under Article 4 shall be granted under the conditions laid down in a general act adopted by the Management Board of the Agency." It means there's no rabbit in that bush. There's one agency with which the money is from the insurance deposit. The agency, under the orders of the National Bank of Serbia, can launch a process of liquidation and bankruptcy of a bank that, despite the decision of the National Bank of Serbia, can be fully liquid and fully able to operate on the market, but is not in line with the policy run by the National Bank. So, let's put it in bankruptcy or liquidation, make it inequitable for a moment, and get the agency that conducts the liquidation and bankruptcy in charge, under the terms prescribed by the Agency's board of directors. Are these conditions more favourable than market conditions? Hypothetically possible, and knowing you and practically. So, for example, an annual interest at a bank is 14 or 15% that this bank, which is not at the will of someone holding all the financial instruments, would be ruined, put first into bankruptcy with the agency, make it inequitable and take credit from an agency that can be 100 percent on the annual level, because that, God forbid, is brought by the Agency's board of directors. Is that possible? Did that happen? Since you've been in power, it has been, whether in the old DOS or new, but it's been happening. So the banks are closed, the bank's capital is destroyed. Now, though, it won't go away in the Caymans, the Seattles, the Virgin Islands, now it's going to stay in the agency and someone's going to keep pulling in other ways. But in any case, through Article 7, it is possible for a completely capable bank to participate in the money market, so that it can be destroyed in one of these ways.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16856	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16857	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I move on to the amendment, I need to clarify two questions, I think the rest of them seem to have been unexplained. In fact, MP Veroljub Arsic asked if anyone was normal to close a liquid bank. Whether she's normal or not, I don't know, but I know she's Beobanka, let's just say, she's still under bankruptcy, she's closed, she's not working, and there's huge financial resources, and now that she's released, it could work. The second issue concerns the presentation of Miss Natasha Jovanovic, the SRS MP, since the previous amendment when she said where the money was from Cyprus. The money from Cyprus, ladies and gentlemen of the people, is in one domestic bank, but not to the Serbian domestic bank, but to the English domestic bank in the Virgin Islands. You remember he went to Batic, asked for money in Cyprus and found them. He went to Velija Ilic, asked for money in Cyprus and found them. It's about those 4.5 billion dollars that were taken out of Serbia. He went to Dusan Mihajlovic and he found that money. And in the end, Mladjan Dinkic left, found the money, but there's no more money there since he found them! As for the amendment, submitted by MP Srjo Komazec, concerns Article 7. - Deposit insurance, and we're going round again. The money from the deposit at the agency. It's the state for the deposits. The Agency can behave as it will, because there is a state behind the agency, the National Bank and the capital of the National Bank. In other words, the capital of these citizens who can no longer bear the yoke you have loaded on their necks. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it was only a moment in the presentation that the question – why is it mentioned that the government is dragging its hand into the pocket of Serbian citizens. Because both Serbian citizens and all Serbs have become intolerable, so many deep pockets are gone as long as you have a long hand and as far as you can drag it! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment and all the previous amendments to the SRS, all future amendments concern that this law be put out of force. The fact that we couldn't thanks to the "democracy" that you brought democracy to, but the "democracy" that you brought to the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, we couldn't have in that previous part enough to convince you and enough to explain to you to withdraw this law from the procedure. To stop, as an octopus, one agency is making two of its own agencies again, and the two agencies will be building agencies next day to local self-government. The only thing it does today in Serbia, if it is excluded, is the little economy of Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic and others that have become rich in one way or another, nothing more than business in Serbia does. You only have agencies working for you, only clubs are working for you, you're only doing various associations, some NGOs, and that, you'll allow, ladies and gentlemen, you don't need the West. Of the few hundred products you can export, you count the raspberries, then two more words, then the raspberries again, then the raspberries again, and you pay the raspberries to farmers in Serbia 40, 50 dinars. Two years ago, it was the same price.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16858	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16859	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will go back to legal norms, but in this case it is also a functional part of Article 7(4). The bill promoter says, "Excludingly from Article 3, funds of the Deposit Insurance Fund can be used to approve the bank's loan if the short-term liquidity of that bank occurs during the winding-up process, with an appropriate means of security." In the process itself, if the bank came into liquidation proceedings, it is both insolvent and insolvent. To give such a bank funds, and especially the dedicated funds of the Deposit Insurance Fund, is the gross law, and I think we need to erase this position and he should not and should not be in office as such. There's our deputy minister, and I'd ask him to give an explanation, because this is against the law, that he'll even go against the basis of this law. I know it's inappropriate now and that you can't possibly do it, but in norming, you have to take care of it. The banks in the liquidation process have been shut down. So, to give them dedicated funds from the deposit insurance fund, then we break and throw in the water the provisions of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16860	Thank you, Mr. Buha. You've realized that according to the Rules of Procedure, it's not possible to give the word to the deputy, but as soon as he's a minister, as MPs say, he'll have a chance. Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee propose not to accept this amendment. The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16861	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to the draft deposit insurance law by proposing that Article 8 be deleted. This member of the proposal speaks of the possibility of investing funds in debt securities issued by the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia, and gives the possibility to invest funds of the deposit insurance fund in foreign securities, which would not be in line with Serbia's foreign reserves. The National Assembly of Serbia has, unfortunately, turned, and is obviously in office of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is determined, as my colleagues have already said, to rob citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You all know that the state and the National Bank of Serbia guarantee that the funds are deposited with banks. Given the fact that bank work permits are granted by the state, or the National Bank of Serbia, it is perfectly normal that they are responsible for depositing natural persons' funds and there is no need to additionally burden banks, or reduce the interest that business banks place on the deposit to natural persons. Such a law will increase even more expensive loans used by legal and physical persons anyway. So I suggest you adopt this amendment of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16862	Thank you, Mr. Koprivica. The same amendment is discussed by MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16863	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the amendment submitted by Parliamentarian Bozidar Koprivica, on behalf of the SRS, should be accepted. Article 8 concerning the amendment is governed by the rules on how the deposit insurance agency, i.e. the winding-up and bankruptcy agency, will dispose of the funds collected on the basis of deposit insurance. It is said in the first position -- "The agency is obliged to keep the funds of the Deposit Insurance Fund in a special deposit account open at the National Bank of Serbia. The Agency can invest funds of the Deposit Insurance Fund on the basis of a decision by the Management Board in debt securities issued by the Republic of Serbia or the National Bank of Serbia." The question now arises, the state wants the money the banks invest in the name of the deposit to be used on its own free will and appraisal. Whether it will be based on a decision by the National Bank of Serbia or the Agency's board of directors, it doesn't matter. It is important that it can be used, i.e. to invest in debt charters of values issued by the Republic of Serbia or the National Bank of Serbia. Soon it will be on the agenda and counter-guarantees that this assembly should provide on the basis of some loans and debts, there have already been stories in the debate in the principles of counter-guarantee and to whom it applies. It refers to good work, forms and participants of organised crime, to people who participated in the organisation of the assassination of the late prime minister, to people who stole electricity from Serbian citizens through various financial and other speculations. So the state needs to vouch for that. If the state can't pay off those guarantees, then we're going to activate the deposits that the business banks gave to the insurance of the natural persons. What if that's not enough, so let the bank go bankrupt after all. Will you then give Serbian citizens a record of the value of the Republic of Serbia or the National Bank of Serbia? What does that accomplish? What's the point of passing this law? Is it, as you claim, that the insurance of citizens holding deposited funds with banks of Serbia or that the state in one particular, slightly corrupt way comes to other means and continues to speculate from October 5th or 6th, which lasts until the day of today. On the basis of a decision by the Management Board of the Agency and a contract concluded with the Agency and on behalf of the Agency, the National Bank of Serbia shall, on behalf of the Agency, invest funds of the Deposit Insurance Fund in foreign securities of value or deposit them with foreign banks. So, that original robbery that started closing our domestic banks, with the replacement of Western European currencies in the euro, is now continuing through deposit insurance. The legislator says that if this law enters into force, the means that the state, or agency, chooses, will be three times higher than before, will be around 22-23 billion dinars per year. Where's that money gonna end? So, again with foreign banks or we're going to invest in other countries, and we need money to start domestic economy, export, to increase the number of jobs, to increase the standard of citizens. A colleague of mine came out here and said that the MPs discussed these amendments are obstructing Parliament's work. Where you will have greater obstruction of Parliament's work than the ruling majority. When was this congregation scheduled? Friday afternoon. A little over 72 hours before the start. How many dots? At 45. Why? In order to obstruct the work of MPs by one of these laws, one such legal proposal will enter into force on 1 January 2006. So it's obstruction. Why? That MPs can't study, that they can't review the laws that are proposed, that they can't prepare to work on them. It is an obstruction of parliament's work, not of the discussions behind this speaker. What is the objective of such obstruction of the work of the MPs? It is, that a session is being prepared through this accelerated course, in fact, to hide certain facts contained in the legal proposals. Among others, one such fact is contained in Article 8 of this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16864	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Does anyone else want to talk about this law that has been in the congregation since 12 April? I thank all the people who did their job and in time delivered all the amendments. We continue to work on the amendments. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee propose not to accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16865	In an amendment to Article 9 submitted by counterpart Ljubomir Kragovic on behalf of the SRS, bank obligations to the Agency are regulated. It's said in point 1. - "The bank is obliged to pay the Agency a deposit guarantee (hereinafter referred to as premium) in a manner and within the time limits prescribed by the Agency". Why didn't we prescribe it by law? Why does the Agency have to do that? There is nothing easier, put it in law, put it in front of the MPs, some MP might think of a better solution, they'll submit amendments, we'll discuss it, if it's better, it'll be voted if, normally, you're not stubborn to stick to something, and later on, we'll have amendments and additions to a certain law. It is further said: "The bank is obliged to provide the Agency with a monthly report on the total and secured deposits, as well as other information that the Agency may need to carry out its law on established operations in a manner and within the time limits prescribed by the Agency." It's the agency that's prescribing certain deadlines again. It's the Agency again that will condition how banks work. It is again the Agency that will determine the business policy of banks and interest rates on the market. So it's the Agency. We are now making one of these legal proposals, full of the Agency's rights to run banks, not its founders and owners. That is the problem of all the legal regulations that come before this congregation, and this matter. If the bank does not pay the premium within the prescribed time limit, which is set by the Agency again, the Agency shall inform the National Bank of Serbia, which shall take appropriate measures in accordance with the law. What are the appropriate measures and with what law? Is that a bank closure if the bank doesn't pay the premium? All the facts are that it is the objective of controlling business banks, to allow as easily as possible to operate certain privileged banks, which are present on our market. We cannot believe the well-willed proposings who keep pointing that out, which is what Article 1 says. – to protect the deposit of natural persons in the event of bank bankruptcy, because it is enough for the bank to be one day late or to make an administrative error, so that the bank is in bankruptcy and liquidation. One part of the tax matter was related to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. That's why we don't trust you, because it happens that tax control determines that someone has charged a value added tax for 300 dinars, so charge him a fine of 100,000. When changes and additions to the Law are made, we will read here, for this speaker, those solutions by the tax administration that Serbian citizens are being robbed, argued, not by persuading. Which means, if one business bank is late (to pay a premium) less than 24 hours under the law, which nobody knows, but the important thing is that the agency didn't get the money in time, simply, that bank is put into liquidation and bankruptcy. We know how this can be done from Article 7. of Article 6. etc. – that one bank, which is fully able to participate in the market, is, in that bankruptcy run by the Deposit Insurance Agency, one hour, pushed into ruin and robbed, only for a few hours of delay.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16866	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word has a People's MP, Momir Markovic. Here you go, Mr Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16867	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, here is the possibility that all banks, which are not under the strict control of one encrypted political party, should not say that I do not give the right to a replica, so that they come out here and say that we are attacking this party – that all banks that are not under the strict control of one encrypted political party will be very easily, very quickly and very simply liquidated. You know what daily liquidity is. You know it's possible that the bank won't be able to be inequitable within two hours and can't pay the agency. The agency, which has representatives, pardons, experts and coded political organisations, informs the National Bank, in which it also sits representatives of the encrypted political organisation. Now, experts from this encrypted political organisation, which sits in the National Bank, have made a decision on the bank's bankruptcy, which is not under the control of an encrypted political organisation's experts. I understand what this is all about; the elections are coming in, whether you want to understand it or not, but this fall will be an extraordinary parliamentary election. Those encrypted and other political organisations will go to the foot of political history, as they will not achieve a part called censorship, to enter parliament. First of all, it is necessary to subdue well, and secondly, to house all activists who work for this encrypted political organization. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if it weren't for this, if we could trust the experts of this encrypted political organization, then today many domestic banks would be working, functioning, not entering the National Bank with a sock on their heads and with a kalashnikov in their hands. The 4.5 billion dollars that were in Cyprus would be in Serbia's cash flows today, and much would be different. I also understand the desire that during this time, until autumn, the funds can be provided at least so much that this encrypted political organization can live for a while, but that experts can live on such a itching, even the sons and sons of their sons, therefore, up to the fifth generation should be provided by families, and time is unwittingly flying. That is why I believe that at least the conscious part of the MPs will vote for this amendment and for all amendments to the SRS, and that this bill, which is a common laugh, will be put out of effect.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16868	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The People's Messenger Milorad Buh. There's no reason to speak in code. It's not a code, it's just a car accident.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16869	As with the other members, we will have to limit ourselves to Article 9, paragraph 3, which says, "If the bank does not pay the premium within the prescribed time limit, the agency informs the National Bank of Serbia that is taking appropriate measures in accordance with the law." This is about standardising the rules that transfer the jurisdiction that belongs to the Agency to the NBS. If we analyse the provisions of the NBS Act, we will see that there is no possibility of applying for a commercial offence, but that stands on the agency as an entity having jurisdiction under the provisions of the Agency Act. When we standardized in this deposit insurance law, we dropped out of our sight that we don't regulate the Agency's jurisdiction here, but there is a lex specialis law, a law on the deposit insurance agency. The provision of Article 9(3) cannot stand here, since that jurisdiction belongs to the Agency and can only be provided for by the Agency Act. However, we have made another failure. He is visible from Article 21, in criminal provisions, which says: "A fine of 100,000 to 3 million dinars will be fined for the bank's economic misdemeanour," and says: "1 if the premium does not pay in a manner and within the time limit prescribed by the Agency (Article 9(1)).).’. We've given this attitude 3 to the NBS's jurisdiction to file a report for an economic offense, and in Article 21 of this law, we've said it's an agency. We've mixed pots here and I think we have to make adjustments here. This member must also be deleted because of this illegality. It is obvious that whoever proposed this law, who wrote this law, has again taken into account the provisions of a united deposit insurance law and the establishment of a deposit insurance agency. I suggest that this member, in addition to all the other members, be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16870	Anyone else on the same amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Blagoja Krajinović submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee propose not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16871	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, a member of the 10th that is short, but it can be said to be quite interesting for the discussion, it is said, "The bank is obliged to pay a premium from the day of enrolment in the court register until the day of the adoption of a decision by the National Bank of Serbia on the withdrawal of the permit to work on that bank." So, there is no other way, as the applicant interprets it, but to withdraw a bank's work permit, as if the bank had to deal exclusively with the deposits of citizens, or natural persons, as if it could not deal with, for example, with paid traffic only or exclusively with legal persons. Here, the promoter leaves the only option, i.e. showing his desire that the bank will stop paying the deposit, which is by withdrawing the permit, no different. This law is so well-conceived that banks that interfere with certain financial circles in the country, which are close to this government, are simply removed from the market. In what way? Here, one way is this deposit insurance law, the next is the deposit insurance agency, which has so far been called the Agency for the winding-up and bankruptcy of banks. Later on, you added to the name "sanitation," but you had a very bad fixation. All the banks you've recovered from coming to power to this day are closed. So that's the only real reason for the adoption of a law like this -- that through the work of this agency they're completely under the control of the bank. They will no longer be able to operate as the market predicts, as it is everywhere in the world, but will operate as ordered by the agency, and the agency is the extended hand of the National Bank, and the National Bank is the extended arm of the finance ministry, and the finance ministry is an extended arm of a encrypted political organisation. So, absolutely all financial flows, and even the work of this assembly, are controlled by a coded political organization. The encrypted political organisation scheduled a meeting of the assembly three days before the start of the session. The deadline for submission of the amendment was less than 24 hours, which is why it does well to explain the submission of amendments to each SRS MP, that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is obviously in office of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. a coded political organisation. That is why the National Assembly sessions are set against the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, in order to make it impossible for MPs to submit amendments and to inform the public of Serbia through reason that, as in this case, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is only determined to continue robbing Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16872	Please, MP Natasa Jovanovic, following the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16873	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, we are coming to what is not a structural problem in the state of Serbia when it comes to financial flows, but unemployment that is growing. If this is how you want to deal with the banking sector, then let's see what Article 10 provides. I repeat again: we are now discussing amendments to the bill, under the 9th item of the agenda. Only the next law establishes a deposit agency. If you are talking about this and Article 10, where Mr Krajinovic, an SRS MP, asked for its erasure, you will come to the argument of the SRS and what my colleague Arsic and I said in all those discussions from the beginning and to Article 10, because Article 10 says, "The bank is obliged to pay a premium from the day of entry into the court register until the day of the adoption of a settlement by the National Bank of Serbia on the withdrawal of the permit to work on that bank." All senselessness of the establishment of the agency and of this law (only by following to this Article 10) is reflected in Article 10 of this Act. Why? Because NBS is already the one, according to the law that has existed since 2003, which has been issuing work permits, which is responsible for monitoring the business of banks and which, as it says here, withdraws the license to work on that bank when the terms of the law are obtained. Now we come to the position of domestic banks or those that were once in this new banking system and this new network of banking businesses. Where they are, why they are systematically destroyed and what will happen to these few who remain domestic banks until the moment Dinkic and Jelasic privatise them. That's an important question, because I'm not going to give you the name of that bank, because you don't take it as an ad, and I'm not going to reveal to you the source of that information that's authentic. Domestic banks with local capital, which are operating on our market, which, for the moment of the eye, will not blink, either Jelasic or Dinkic withdraw the license because they are not still in the system that I am talking about, under direct control and the bat of that two or someone who is with them is a bank that operates with the economy and is its basic activity since 1984, 1985. In all these stages, and especially in the years of unremembered sanctions against our economy and citizens, that one of the banks, which has not yet been privatised, but which in the end will have to endure no pressure, and above all because of, on the one hand, unfair competition from these foreign banks that operate as domestic ones, still wants, it is its intensity to operate exclusively with the economy, because there are others who do business with the population, and this is a relationship of 80 to 20 in favour of these foreign ones, when it comes to the population sector. Look what's going on. Except that they are threatened to be suffocating because of the incredibly high censorships that are constantly changing, and they are forced to go into some integrations, because these small "small" but are not at the will of the governor and the finance minister, they are being suffocating business entities that are in the category or in rank A, in the highest level of business in this economy when they are given business points and all they need to get as a bonus, rank fourth, fifth, or first group. If I were to tell you what kind of domestic company this is, because it is something that every resident needs or for rehabilitation or for treatment, you would see that this company cannot be either as a distribution network, or as a producer's activity in rank V or G. It is knowingly ranked because it is a depositor of this bank, which is not under Dinkic's control – where is the market business, where is the inability and control of the monopoly? Of course, there is no such thing in this country in this article 10th and all those opportunities that the governor has personally and the National Bank of Serbia, any possibility that a bank, which resists such a mono-political policy, is being led on that side or from that powerful lobby finance centre, by those who are small and small to them. These are the people who and how they have heard of our economic operators and helped them during sanctions to survive and to do much better than since these famous reforms of yours came to the state, of which neither the economy nor the citizens have any use. That's why we don't want to talk in a retrograde context and return to something that time has long since run over, but from the experience of these economic operators and these experienced bankers and businessmen, you have to pull something out, because through this kind of business and through this kind of central bank impact on our country's banking system, they suffer only damage. They can't benefit either, and they can't have the economy they're doing business with, because it's systematically being destroyed. If Hamovic, Lazarevic or other close friends and ministers were these business factors or factors, another song would be. This is how people who do not want to be put in place and who are resisting powerful financial lobbys don't want to get into some suspicious business, or to do something they never wanted to do, but think they can still fight for their place, but it's impossible because it's a ruthless market where they wipe out one move of feathers or rubber, by governors or ministers, all those who aren't willing.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16874	Anyone else want a word? Here you are, People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16875	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will go back to the legal formulation of Article 10, which says: "The bank is obliged to pay a premium from the day of enrolment in the court register until the day of the adoption of a decision by the National Bank of Serbia on the withdrawal of the permit for the bank's work." Each bank in the current legal system, the legal system, the Republic of Serbia pays the insurance premium on the basis of the insurance established by certain legal regulations. It's one fact, and the other fact is that all banks currently living on the financial plan are listed in the court register and have a work permit. Again, the bill promoter is in error when he says that the insurance premium will be paid from the day of registration to the register. Why would the bank sign up under this law? It has already been entered and has been authorised to work and it is perfectly normal to meet all the obligations provided for by current current current rules in the area of insurance. The right formulation should be – that the bank will pay the insurance premium in accordance with this law, i.e. on the date of entry into force of this law, and the moment the authorisation for work is withdrawn, it ceases to pay. So, in this case, we are proposing to delete this legislation, or member, because it is inadequate and is not an appropriate situation, given that all banks currently operating in the financial field are registered in the court register and are authorised to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16876	The 11th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. But the government and the Finance Committee suggest that this amendment be not accepted. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16877	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the proposal for a deposit insurance law, I have submitted an amendment to article 11, which is deleted, however, I have one thing to say. We with this new Rules of Procedure have been denied, especially in the writing of amendments. Namely, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is obviously in office of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because the National Assembly meetings are set against the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, in order to prevent MPs from submitting amendments and through explanations informing the public of Serbia that, as in this case, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is only determined to continue trying to rob citizens of Serbia, and in particular it is thought of the encrypted party, according to counterpart Moma Markovic. However, the state and the National Bank of Serbia guarantee natural persons that funds are deposited with banks. Given that bank operating permits are granted by the State, or the National Bank, it is perfectly normal for them to be eligible for the deposit of natural persons’ funds and there is no need to additionally burden banks, or to reduce the interest paid by the commercial banks on deposits to natural persons. Such a law will increase even more expensive loans used by legal and physical persons anyway. Article 11. The draft deposit insurance law says: "The bank is obliged to pay the initial premium, a three-month and an extraordinary premium". So far, institutional solutions in the area of deposit insurance, and in partnership with other financial systems, were at least unsettled. The secured amount of deposits provided by the insurance agency in due time was 5,000 dinars. This would mean that when the bank is liquidated, the agency only assumes a commitment of up to 5,000 dinars. By adopting the Deposit Insurance Act, Article 11 states that the bank is obliged to pay an initial premium amounting to 0.3% of the cash share, the minimum underlying capital of the bank. The question arises whether we provide a deposit or burden on the bank's core capital, which is how we finance the Deposit Insurance Agency, but therefore reduce the possibility of lending to the economy and the population for a high amount of the initial premium. The agency determines a three-month premium of 0.1%, which additionally burdens the bank's business, with the amount of discretionary law given to Finance Minister Dinkic, that, based on the situation in the banking and overall financial system of the Republic of Serbia – the level of risk at which the amount of funds in the Deposit Insurance Fund is at stake, a maximum three-month premium of 0.1%, which would then be in the monetary policy function through the reduction of the loan offer; as this maximum three-month premium will additionally burden the credit potential of banks. Since the deposit insurance agency will never have enough money, then the banking system will be charged regularly with those 0.4% of the extraordinary premium. With such a high intervention in the form of deposit insurance, there is a possibility that bank directors attract additional deposits due to the fact that they are secured by the deposit insurance agency. Then, without a large credit analysis or credit rating, the creditor shall be granted loans and at non-market interest rates, as the deposits are well secured by the deposit insurance agency. That'll create a problem with the bank manager again. Therefore, Article 11 of the Deposit Insurance Act as an indeterminate and shrub should not be accepted by fellow MPs from the ruling majority. So this way, gentlemen of Parliament, I ask you not to vote for this member in the voting day, because the member is very bad, as well as the draft deposit insurance law itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16878	Anyone else on this amendment? Is it the People's MP Milorad Buha or Mr. Veroljub Arsic?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16879	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 11, I apologize for having to read the provisions of this bill, first of all, for the viewers who follow us and who need to know, given that they have no laws in front of them, and this is a public session, and I think we must inform the citizens of the bill's proposals, so I am taking this opportunity to show citizens the basic aspects of the proposed laws and all that we, as the SRS, are proposing and suggesting to build this law. Article 11 The proposal provides that the bank is obliged to pay the initial premium, a three-month premium and an extraordinary premium. Since I worked at the Bank Rehabilitation and Deposit Insurance Agency at some times, among other things, I studied the area of deposit insurance as a lawyer, and in my practice I did not find it in this way to determine the premium. In legal regulation, above all, highly developed financial institutions, the United States, France, England, Germany, there is a completely different system and I think that this system should be applied. I will now try to explain the basic elements by which the legislator and the legislator of this law went. Look, when it comes to the initial premium, the promoter, for his part, meant the insurance premium, which should be paid by the banks when they were set up. As regards banks and founding, they do not have adequate deposit mass and cannot pay, since insurance premiums relate to the deposit mass agreed between the committee and the bank. So the provisions of this law are (and this applies first of all to Article 20) I can't apply them and they're inadequate. If we don't have a deposit mass, we simply don't have a chance to settle an adequate premium on that mass. On the other hand, a three-month premium cannot be four months, six months, nine months and twelve months, because it is a premium and as such is cut. It can be paid monthly, can be paid three months, and as a rule it does. We in practice have a three-month account and three-month premium payment, but a premium as an institute can't be a three-month premium. So she is a premium, and as such she must be accepted in such a form. As for the extraordinary premium in the practice of other countries, there is also that provision and it could remain. As for the initial and three-month premium, I suggest they be deleted. Another suggestion, regarding the type of insurance premium. I think that's where we should apply the differentiated premiums in our practice. And what does a differentiated premium mean? The differentiated premium is applied in those shameful systems and in those financial systems where we classify banks, since we do the classification of banks based on credit and bank quality, I think it would be appropriate in this case to go with an adequate differentiated premium. I think she would be adequate and very applicable in our system.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16880	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16881	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, this Article 11 determines how these premiums will be paid and one basic financial principle is not respected, which is that the premium is paid for what is actually provided, and the deposit is secured. There's a regular premium and let's say that, in some ways, it's acceptable in this case. However, there is an initial premium, a three-month premium and an emergency premium. What's the initial premium? The initial premium refers to the founding role of the bank, a minimum, and can also be applied to the total founding role of the bank. Now the question that has already been raised is: does a bank that registers also have to deal with the question of the deposits of citizens, or natural persons? He doesn't have to. Then why does he have to take part in the deposit insurance? Perhaps the bank will exclusively, to base its activity on payment and business with natural persons. Why, then, in dealing with legal persons, the bank should damage its deposit committees which it does not have and does not intend to deal with. Then why are we forcing, in this case, a business bank to pay a deposit insurance premium? Let's say that it's defined what is the initial premium, what is three months, what is the extraordinary premium and what it serves. Is that in the enthusiasm of closing banks, when the money disappears in the deposit insurance agency, and then you're going to cut through those other banks, which, by some miracle, survived your euphoria of closing banks, to pay off someone's political, non-economic and wrong moves. No, the bank's business moves, but the political moves, these authorities. We've seen how it works, but now it would go the other way. The first would go to the encrypted people who control the finance ministry, the finance ministry controlled by the National Bank of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia, who controls the deposit insurance agency. I'm going to repeat the real name, the liquidation and the bankruptcy of the banks. So if that euphoria occurs amongst the encrypted, then there's no money in the agency, then we'll have extraordinary premiums. Who's gonna pay for that? Serbian citizens again, not banks. You're getting carried away and you're trying to explain to the citizens that that's what banks are going to pay for. He won't! Citizens will receive less interest on resources by sight, deposited funds and armed funds at banks. Citizens will raise more expensive loans with these same banks because they are burdened with an initial premium, a three-month premium and an emergency premium. Why? A constant question arises as to why all of this should already be said in one of the members of this law that if the agency does not have funds to secure deposits, then deposits will be settled from the Republic of Serbia's budget, as is now being done.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16882	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bora Kutic. The government and the Finance Committee propose not to accept this amendment. The People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic, then the People's Messenger Milorad Buha, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16883	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we're back on those premiums. So in Article 12, paragraph 1. - "The bank is obliged to pay the initial premium within 45 days of the date of entry into the court register." In point 2. - "The initial premium is 0.3% of the bank's minimum founding capital." Who's prescribing the minimum founding capital of the bank now? Whether through the law on the deposit insurance agency, liquidation and bankruptcy of banks, the agency will prescribe a minimum founding capital of the bank, or will be done by the National Bank of Serbia or the Ministry of Finance or someone else. Who's prescribing that? We're going back to the story of why this refers to the initial role of business banks. There are no citizens' deposits in it, there is nothing to be provided by the draft of this law. So, some bank wants to register, wants to run payment traffic, wants to work as a business bank, exclusively with legal persons, and now has to pay 0.3% of its founding capital to the insurance agency of deposits for natural persons, or citizens with whom he does not operate at all and has no contact at all. Even in Article 2 paragraph 1(2), you stated that deposits do not apply to natural persons who carry out their activity in order to obtain profits. So he's already associated with business banks. There's always one question: why are you looking for money to secure something in certain banks that don't work with physical deposits? So, simply, he's running payment traffic, he's making some income, he's got founding capital, he's got his own capital acquired, and he's directing that capital into the economy. So, no natural persons, no citizens, but you're asking 0.3% of that founding role. What happens if one such bank makes a certain profit during business, and pays what the current tax laws apply, and later declares the stake as a founding stake, not dividend founders, majority owners, wants the money that the bank earned to be a founding stake for the bank's further work. Whether they'll have to pay 0.3% again and so on forever. Every year, it will be determined that some kind of insurance is paid that banks have to suffer, and they do not do business at all with citizens, or individuals. The aim of this bill is to allow this government, through deposit insurance, to have securities of value, which no one will, because the fact is that it is gradually losing confidence that the Republic of Serbia is issuing as some kind of value, precisely because of this ruling majority that has been functioning for the fifth year, so no one will cover the budget deficit through the agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16884	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16885	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, since article 12 has already been read, I'm not going to read it, I'm just going to make a brief comment. The provisions of Article 12 differ with the basic elements of deposit insurance and the very essence of deposit insurance. In the formation of the bank, the first thing that makes bank management in the process is to make a request for approval for work. Where a work authorisation is granted, the applicant shall submit an application for registration in the register. At that moment, according to this bill, the bank would have to pay the premiums, but if we see that they are paid three months ago, it actually has a first commitment to it after three months. We here cut it short with those banks that are actually going into business, and they should work after 45 days of enrolment in the register to start paying the initial premium, but the basis on which the pay is very problematic. It says here that 0.3% of the bank's minimum founding capital is paid. So, not on the bank's deposit, not on the secured deposit, not on the bank's deposits agreed between the committee and the bank, but on the founding capital. It's a unique example, I haven't seen him anywhere, and I'd like to ask the Deputy Minister to reconsider this formulation. I suggest erasing this provision because no insurance premium on founding capital is paid anywhere in any system. So, on founding capital, there's no basis for any other legal basis, there's no concern for the state. It is the founders who set up elements and conditions in the bank's work and business. They're responsible, the state has no responsibility. Why would the bank pay the state now for something that has no basis? It is the founders who take responsibility for the bank's business and work. But on the other hand, there is a question of the legality of this provision. If we set up a basic postulate, the basic principle of being paid on deposit, then you can't pay on founding capital.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16886	Thank you, Mr. Buha. Anyone else report for the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Lalic. The government and the Finance Committee propose not to accept this amendment. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16887	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Article 13 is closer to defining the rates of premiums to be paid in the bank's security deposit. The agency determines the rate of the three-month premium for the following year by 30 September of the current year, based on the situation in the banking and the overall financial system of the Republic of Serbia, the degree of risk to which it is exposed and the amount of funds in the deposit insurance fund. So these are the parameters the agency will use. For each case, paragraph 2 says that the rate of the three-month premium is not more than 0.1%. However, if you take a closer look at it in Article 9. (he is already in a bit of collegiate with Article 13.) It is said in point 2. "The bank is obliged to provide the Agency with monthly reports on the total and secured deposits, as well as other information that the Agency may need to carry out its law of established operations, in a manner and within the time limits prescribed by the Agency." Why not do it once every three months when there is already a three-month rate to be made for next year and no later than September 30th. The three-month premium shall be calculated and charged by the agency on the basis of the average balance of the total secured deposits in the bank in the previous quarter. Then why are the monthly reports filed? What's the point of putting up with it? If one of these monthly reports does not arrive at the agency, the agency immediately informs the National Bank of Serbia, which is taking appropriate measures, (i.e. the Ministry) and completely pushes the bank into bankruptcy, i.e. liquidation. The Agency for Dinar Deposits accounts and charges three months in dinars and for foreign exchange deposits in euro – per euro rate (by a specific currency) which is valid on the day of the payment of this premium. The most interesting position of this Article 13 is point 5. – the agency may suspend the account and charge of a three-month premium if the funds of the Deposit Insurance Fund reach 5% of the total amount of the secured deposits. Why does it not say that the agency must suspend the payment of the deposit guarantee premium if the value of the deposit exceeds 5% of the amount of the secured deposit. Why do we leave the agency with the possibility that she, as provided for by this law, will start acting like a bank. She herself begins to function as a bank, with the ability to close other banks. He can initiate the liquidation and bankruptcy procedure, run the liquidation and bankruptcy of other banks. It itself begins to operate as a bank because it can buy securities of value from the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. It can invest in foreign banks with our deposits, (means, that we finance other banks that may not even operate in the territory of the Republic) to invest in other industries and other budgets. It's already the markings of a bank. That's a fact. Would someone under such authority, when they don't care about domestic banking, because it's seen by all the legal proposals that come here, simply, when (the deposit insurance funds) reach 5%, (the total amount of secured deposits) we won't say any more, we have enough. If there's a deposit increase, we'll continue to charge, and if it falls, then what happens to the money that's in the deposit insurance agency. Will he be returned to the banks? He won't. He's leaving the banks. He's leaving the banks. Refundable someone will accumulate quite large financial resources, reportedly under the care of citizens investing in banks and money as planned by this bill and the possibilities it provides, will most likely end up buying paper from other foreign banks and states. That's the problem with this law. Or, as it is said, that the bank that is in the liquidation process, because it is not the same liquidation and bankruptcy. Liquidation is one-way ticket, no return. In the case of a bank's liquidity, current liquidity, it is possible that the Agency may grant credit under the conditions prescribed by the Agency's Management Board. The Agency is conducting a liquidation procedure. So, she can knowingly, if she estimates that the bank's assets are bigger than all its debt obligations, knowingly push into inequitableness, exploiting that inequitableness, placing funds out of deposits as loans under more unfavourable conditions, and thus destroying the bank. That's what this law says that what's worse, no one will answer. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16888	Here you go, Mr. Buha has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16889	In Article 13, I believe that there is a questionable provision of Article 4 which says that, for a dinar deposit agency, a three-month premium is charged and charged in dinars, and for foreign deposits in euro, according to the euro rate according to a particular currency that is valid on the day of the payment of this premium. According to the Law on Payments, the Foreign Payment Act is clearly established as well as the payment system. No one, not even the banks, can break the provisions of this law. First of all, the legislator must know, and I was surprised that it went through the Legislative Committee and that he did not notice the illegality of this provision. So we can't charge in euros. We can only in dinars at an effective exchange rate, which can be a sales, purchase or middle course and therefore make a payment. So, in euros, we can't charge.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16890	Anyone else on the amendment to Article 13? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Marinkovic. The government and the Finance Committee propose not to accept this amendment. The word is made by the MP Srboljub Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16891	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 14 which is deleted for reasons that additionally imposes on citizens, i.e. approved loans, are huge and I believe that they are unnecessary, for reasons that the state and the National Bank of Serbia guarantee natural persons for funds deposited with banks. Given that the government’s, or National Bank’s permits to operate banks, it is perfectly normal for them to be responsible for deposited natural persons’ meetings. It is not necessary to additionally burden banks, i.e. to reduce the interest paid by the commercial banks to the deposits of natural persons. Such a law will increase even more expensive loans that make it difficult for citizens to return credit in time, and in certain situations loans cannot be returned. Citizens remain without their property, even properties etc. It's creating a big problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16892	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16893	Article 14 tries to regulate euphoria if euphoria occurs among encrypted political parties when it comes to the closure of banks. How do you provide deposit funds if that euphoria really takes hold? In the first position of Article 14, it is said: "If the funds of the Deposit Insurance Fund are not enough to pay the amounts secured, the additional funds shall be provided by the payment of an emergency premium on the basis of the Agency's decision". So, despite the 5% you plan to take from at least the total amount of deposits, this is not enough, so another asset is being used and the Agency's Management Board is being called up to decide to apply an emergency premium. What's going on now? Again, those banks, which miraculously survive the current euphoria, will have to provide funds for the closure of another non-equity bank. We're going back to the story, who basically provides those funds. They're providing citizens again. So, some insurance is paid for some amount a citizen left to some bank for safekeeping, with some interest. If you increase the percentage, or the amount of the premium, it is perfectly normal that this bank will reduce the interest of the citizen who holds the deposit with that bank. She has to, to preserve the substance she's going to work with. So, citizens are now getting less interest on funds, which are in banks based on sighting or saving. On the other hand, that money is used further for the purpose of lending citizens. It is only natural that such a legal proposal, if it comes to life, and it seems to me that it is the will of the congregation’s majority to live, will increase the cost of the loan, or interest that citizens raise in these same banks. Why? So that someone could, without any obligation, play with the bank's business. That's the problem with this law. Paragraph 3 states: "The Agency shall account for the extraordinary premium and charge on the basis of the last established average balance of the total secured deposits referred to in Article 13... "Later in the next article, we will see what happens if those funds are not enough. But in any case, instead of worrying about how to enable banks to do normal business on the market, the stability of foreign currency, which is constantly linked to the revaluations, to secure an economy with minimal inflation, which is again used as a revaluation of some capital when the credit is raised. You here have the only wish, either direct or, in this case, indirect means of taking as much money as possible from the citizens, no matter what. Is this a commission when replacing the currency – Western European currencies in the euro, whether these are legal provisions, whether it is value added tax, income tax, criminal policy implemented by tax authorities, etc. So, the goal is not that the state is working in the interests of the citizens, in this case, and of these congregational majority, the aim is that citizens work in the interests of the state, or a minority that has been captured by the authorities, and there is no 2.5% of the electoral body behind it. Now the question is, does the state exist because of citizens or citizens exist because of the state? You would, in any case, like this to be the other way around.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16894	Thank you, rhetorical question – rhetorical answer. Here you go, Mr. Buha. The word has been made by the People's MP Milorad Buha on the same amendment to Article 14.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16895	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we must return to legal regulation, given that it is obviously not adequate, and that the legislator has failed in many formulations. I'm trying, (maybe I'm boring) to get that form done, to clear up, and the details that aren't fit for this law, we're gonna have to delete. Article 14 states that an emergency premium is actually charged on the basis of the Agency's decision. This formulation is not adequate for the next reason – because we do not know what the Agency's decision is. The Agency’s bodies are: the Management Board of the Agency and the Executive Director of the Agency. Given the fact that this is an emergency premium, an emergency charge and the agency's extraordinary income, above all, I think that this provision is inadequate and that it had to stand: based on the decision of the Management Board of the Agency. Why does it matter? It's important in practice that there be no abuse. The Executive Director of the Agency simply cannot obtain these powers belonging to, in accordance with the provisions of the Deposit Insurance Act, exclusively to the Management Board. But in this legislative proposal, it is an inadequate definition of what the Agency's decision means. Furthermore, in law itself, we must define all essential elements when charged, within which deadlines. So we can't leave it to the board of directors, because there could be some abuses again. The proposal is to complete this provision of this article, which says "based on" the "the Agency's decisions", because the agency's decision, as an institute, does not exist legally. There is a board of directors or executive directors. The legislator must be defined, most likely in the definition there is no possibility, given that the provisions of another law accurately provide for the authority’s jurisdiction, i.e. in this case it is the Management Board. I suggest that this member be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16896	Thank you, Mr. Buha. Does anyone else want to talk about the amendment to Article 14. Here's a word from MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16897	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are, here with Article 14 to clarify the situation of hand-to-hand in the citizens' pocket. Article 14 will be authorised by the agency unless there are enough funds, to prescribe an emergency premium and to account for up to 0.4%. The previous Article 13 states: "The Agency may suspend the account and the payment of a three-month premium if the funds in the Deposit Insurance Fund reach 5% of the total amount of secured deposits". So, we didn't commit to the agency, either, when it fills this 5%, to stop more, and here we allow it - Article 14 to take more funds by way of an emergency premium, to take as much money as it needs and a little more just in case, because appetites are a miracle. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, nowhere in this bill does it say what is the limit that, through the current, three-month, extraordinary premium, the agencies will charge from whoever provides the deposit. It doesn't say anything about the number where the agency is going to have to stop. In this way, the banks, which will deposit funds, will be forced to take what the agency takes through interest or in a different way, from the depositors, thus dragging their hand into their pocket and, just as I said in Articles 7 or 8, hand to elbow, Serbian citizens, whether through the budget, whether through these funds. Therefore, the amendment of MP Srboljub Marinkovic and this member of the law should be adopted. After all, all members of the law should be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16898	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoslav Milkovic. The government and the Finance Committee propose not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Dragoslav Milkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16899	On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 15. Proposal for a deposit insurance law. Article 15 reads: "If, even after the payment of the extraordinary premium, the Fund for Deposit Insurance is not enough to pay the amounts secured, the Agency can provide additional funds by borrowing, based on the decision of the Governing Board, with the prior consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia". We suggest that this member be deleted. Besides, the SRS won't vote for this bill. The state and the NBS guarantee physical persons that funds are deposited with banks. This is where the various agencies, boards, directors are scheduled. Serbia is a poor country, not Sweden, that so many administrative workers are financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. You've established an agency along with each ministry, so it's my suggestion that you form an agency to thank Solana. You have managed to restore the Resava school, copying laws from EU countries. Serbia is not France, the Netherlands, Belgium. Serbia is a poor country. Mr. Markovic, don't interrupt me, I'll bring out a problem from the south of Serbia. The South of Serbia, or Pcinj County, especially the municipality of Trgovište, is in a catastrophic state. Everything's stopped, everything's gone, only institutions that are funded from the Republic of Serbia's budget are working. Serbia's most wanted goods are chains and locks. The population is moving to Belgrade or out of the country. The border community is running out of people. Given what is being prepared in Kosovo and Metohija, the NewsWEEK magazine published one map in the 1990s, which envisions Kosovo and Metohija becoming an independent state in 2005. I demand that the Serbian state take appropriate measures urgently and do not allow an Albanian parade to be created on the basis of accidents, crimes, blood, killing and destroying spiritual Serb sanctities. There would then be a loss of southern Serbia, Serbia's collapse, the Raska region, Vojvodina, eastern Serbia. Serbia would become a banana republic, and Serbs would be a nation without state besides the Kurds and the Palestinians. From year to year, the territory where Serbs settle, narrows down, we lose our territory. They declare us a genocide, no one apologizes to us, and our leaders apologize to the Croats, Muslims, Shiptars. Turns out we're the only people to blame for the war on the premises of the former Yugoslavia. I demand that the state of Serbia intervene urgently, include all international actors and not allow Kosovo and Metohija to be declared an independent state.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16900	Mr. Markovic, please, about the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16901	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, Article 15, reads: "If and after the payment of the extraordinary premiums", as long as they decide to take, because they do not have the limit, "the funds of the Deposit Insurance Fund are not enough to pay the amounts secured, the Agency can provide additional funding by borrowing, based on the decision of the Management Board, with the prior consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia". What if the agency doesn't get the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Is the agency going into bankruptcy and liquidation? How will you regulate when giving that agency is far greater than previous incomes, regardless of how in an absolutely inadequate way it is filled with that fund in the agency. What happens to the agency, what happens to the depositors, what happens to the business banks that deposited their assets into the agency? What's gonna happen to the insurance? A bunch of open questions this law doesn't answer. I therefore believe that the amendment to Article 15 should be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16902	On the same amendment, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16903	Ladies and gentlemen, there is now a question of the existence of Article 4. The bill, which says, provides the agency with deposits up to the level of the amount secured. Article 2 says, "For the liabilities of the 1st Article, the Republic of Serbia guarantees that, in Article 15, we would have a situation that, even after the payment of the extraordinary premium of the deposit insurance fund, the additional funds of the agencies could be provided by borrowing, on the basis of the decision of the Governing Board, with the prior consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Now we see that the entire activity of the agency is complete, which can be freely called the bank. Those funds that it receives for deposit insurance can be used to purchase paper of values it emits either by the National Bank, or by the Republic of Serbia, or by another foreign bank. When he spends that money and decides to close a bank, he has to take credit. From who, that's the question. Whether the cost of the loan will be greater than the profit the agency will earn by buying securities of value, regardless of whether from the National Bank, whether from the Republic of Serbia or from another foreign bank. If that happens, who's gonna be responsible? How can you even, if you're planning on doing some insurance at this level, this is not an insurance company, so you're going to place that extra money on the market because you're leaving the possibility: what if? That possibility says you can also be in charge of those banks that are going to pay the money back to the citizens through the agency, so it's going to be twice as useful. Not to mention the benefits they had of closing some banks in 2002 and 2003. So, every member, however the debate continues, has too many doubts about the regularity and good will of the legislator of this law. More is going in this direction, to confirm the possibility of manipulation on the money market, where someone needs to, through a certain legislative proposal, to achieve not a very small profit.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16904	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16905	In this article, the legislator has slightly corrected his legal legislation, and in decision-making he has determined the law and qualified institution, or body, which is the Management Board of the Agency. However, he missed, as it is said to be in debt, according to the billmaker, he meant foreign borrowing. In accordance with the provisions of the NBS Act, no institution, and especially not the Agency, cannot be charged abroad without prior consent from the NBS. For his part, in the formulation of this article, he was referring to foreign borrowing. We cannot avoid the National Bank of Serbia, although it is said here under the previous consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We must include the National Bank of Serbia in the whole process, and that is where I propose that the legislator introduce that formulation. On the other hand, if it's about borrowing in the country itself, I don't think there's any need for any borrowing. Given that previous members are provided for all deposit insurance obligations, those in the jurisdiction of the Agency shall be guaranteed by the Republic. In this case, the environment must be found in finding funds between the National Bank of Serbia, Serbia's budget and the agency. My suggestion is to complete this article, he's inadequate. The very formulation of duty is inadequate and there is no telling what responsibility he is referring to. I note again if you are referring to "indebted" abroad, we cannot do so without the prior consent of the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16906	Anyone else on the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Milosevic. The government and the Finance Committee propose not to accept the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16907	Article 16 begins with the bankruptcy of banks and Article 16 regulates how this will be done when it comes to deposits of natural persons, or citizens. The bank in bankruptcy is obliged to provide the Agency with information on depositors and their deposits in accordance with its instructions within 15 days. I think it's too high, because deposit insurance agencies are leading to bankruptcy and liquidation of banks. She's the one who's directly involved. We don't have any cooperation with the bank anymore. Once the bankruptcy is launched, there's no bank anymore, now it's a bank in bankruptcy. It's being deleted from the register until the bankruptcy is over. Either the bank is going to be liquidated, or it's going to settle its liabilities to the debtors, so with some smaller capital, it's going to continue business, but now it's a bank in bankruptcy. The bankruptcy of the management except for the Trade Court and the agency that proposes its bankruptcy manager to work for the agency. After receipt of the data, the Agency shall determine the amount of the amount secured per deposit, based on the balance of all deposits of that deposit in the bank on the date of adoption of the National Bank’s decision to withdraw the bank’s work permit, including the corresponding agreed interest until the date of adoption. However, there the proposer simply wanted to be fenced from it; what if the bank paid the insurance deposit to the agency (deposits are some kind of living matter, it changes from day to day). So, the number of depositors is increasing, the amount of deposits in the business bank is increasing, but it is not covered by the three-month period in which it is being launched, it makes a decision to launch bankruptcy over the bank. What's going on now? Citizens who met in the meantime have no right to ask the agency for anything. That's what this bill says. Now the question arises – what about those insurances that were simply, the man came, invested in the bank, the bank paid the insurance, cost three months, spent the money where he wanted, wanted his money back in the deposit? He won't. Will the bank? He won't. Then all those who are the depositors of that bank, whether their deposit is secured or not, should be found in that space between the last insurance and the decision on the bank's bankruptcy, all deposits should be compensated. Here even the possibility is that, if only one part of the deposit is only part of the deposit, that part is being settled, and not one that is not, although that citizen or natural person over a longer period of time could have repeatedly paid the agency's deposit to a much larger amount than it was the amount at the moment of bankruptcy being launched over a bank. So, he'll only get the money based on the last payment of the deposit insurance agency to the amount of deposits he had at the moment and not a penny more. If he had paid for months and years, and that deposit had changed depending on who was the only one benefiting from it. Except for the agency. In that it is a problem that the legal proposals of this kind are most often applied to us for the first time, and these are the experts who wrote these laws to you or you tried in a certain way to do something revolutionary in banking, to brag that you actually invented hot water.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16908	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Mitrovica. The government and the Finance Committee propose not to accept the amendment. The People's Messenger Nenad Mitrovica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16909	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, and on the basis of Article 141. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be subject to amendment to Article 17. Proposal for a deposit insurance law, and Article 17. The bill reads: "Deponent has the right to request the Agency to pay the amount secured, and the Agency is obliged to ensure that the amount secured is paid to him within 90 days of the date of submission of that request. The depositor shall, with the requirement set out in Article 1(1), attach a certified correction proving the merits of the claim." So, the cash deposit agreement, the savings role, the bank's current account, the savings book, the inheritance solution and the other. "The request of the 1st member's position cannot be submitted after three years of the date of adoption of the National Bank of Serbia's decision to withdraw the bank's work permit. The Agency for Dinar Deposits pays the amount in dinars, and for the foreign exchange deposit in euro – according to a specific currency which is valid on the day of the adoption of the decision under Article 3." The amendment requires that this member of the Deposit Insurance Act be deleted, because in this case you have entrusted all the tasks to the Agency and continued with the practice that all jobs go through the agency, not through the competent authorities to carry out these tasks. The state and the National Bank of Serbia guarantee natural persons to deposit funds with banks, and we of the SRS do not trust either the finance minister or the governor of the National Bank, so we doubt their intentions. Given that bank operating permits are granted by the State, or the National Bank, it is perfectly normal for them to be eligible for the deposit of natural persons’ funds and there is no need to additionally burden banks, or to reduce the interest paid by the commercial banks on deposits to natural persons. Such a law will increase even more expensive loans used by legal and physical persons.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16910	Mr. Markovic, you're next. According to article 98, I'm taking five minutes off. Thank you. [[After break – 18.55]] We're continuing our work, gentlemen. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16912	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here is another inconsistencies, another inconsistencies of this law that goes in favor of an SRS request expressed through amendments that this law be rejected in the day of the vote, that is, to adopt the amendments of the SRS MPs. Article 17 says: "Deponent has the right to request the Agency to pay the amount secured, and the Agency is obliged to ensure that the amount secured is paid to him within 90 days of the date of submission of that request". Articles 11, 12, 13 and 14 are regulated as to how the agency will charge depositor premiums, so it says – the bank is obliged to pay the initial three-month premium and the extraordinary premium; the bank is obliged to pay the initial premium within 45 days of the date of entry into the court register, and the initial premium is 0.3%, etc.; the agency determines the rate of the three-month premium for the following year no later than 30 September of the current year and on the basis of the situation in the overall financial system of the Republic of Serbia, the degree of risk to which the amount of the insurance fund is also exposed, and the premium rate is 0.1%, and the three-month premium of the agency is charged and charged on the basis of the average balance of the total collateral deposits, etc. So, you're required to pay the first premium within 45 days. Pay the three-month premium before the first three months are up. Please pay the extraordinary premium at the time when the agency determines the amount of the emergency premium, or how little funds there is in the deposit. When the time comes for you to collect the deposit, then you as a depositor have to wait 90 days, or three months from the day you filed for a refund of funds. So, three months the agency will be using your resources, three months you won't be able to afford your means, whether you're a private person, a company, and three months you'll have to wait, and when you have to pay, then there's a whole other story. I ask, who will and how will have the funds from the moment you apply, until those three months have passed when the Agency has to pay you back your deposit. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that in today's debate we have really proven the needlessness of passing such a law, its legal cavity, its financial cavity and its essence regarding kidnapping, but literally kidnapping of funds from both citizens and businesses in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16913	Thank you, Mr. Markovic, but that's not on the agenda, it was a principle debate. We're talking about amendments. The word is Mr. Buha, amendment to article 17.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16914	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to make a comment here in Article 17(2) that says that the depositor is obliged to attach, with the request set out in Article 1 of this article, a certified correction proving the merits of the claim, and I would stop reading there. Just a brief comment. Look, a depositor, or citizen. Most often, the citizen is not guilty of bankruptcy, i.e. the liquidation of the bank, because there is a competent institution, i.e. the NBS, which takes care of the liquidity and insolvency of banks and takes adequate actions towards the resolution of the liquidity and insolvency of each bank. So whoever is not to blame is obliged to take certain legal and various administrative actions that will prove it their right. In our terms, it's very expensive and long. Somewhere in the interior, a certain bank came into bankruptcy, and now in a ransom of claims we see here that a tender has been called, so she bought a bank, we assume it's a bank in Belgrade. A man must come from the inside, not guilty of the bank's bankruptcy. On the contrary, by means of his contribution, or by means of his financial means, he did activity towards strengthening the bank's creditworthiness. He must suffer in this situation, and suffers in such a way as to collect documentation, spend certain funds, and on the other hand, to pay cash amounts for the journey and to settle his claims. I don't think that's appropriate and that the bill promoter would have to go with a completely different formulation. Simply, the bank that has taken the obligation to settle the claim against the citizen is obliged (as it fulfils the obligation to have all relevant documentation, and if it is not available, there is that documentation in the Agency or in the competent court that carries out the bankruptcy, liquidation and calls on the citizen, since it has all relevant information from the names and last names, father names, JMB and all other relevant data. ) So we must not expose the citizen's deposit to the costs, travels, and any other peripetia that arises if a man turns on a counter and then experiences discomfort. On the other hand, Article 3 of this article says that the request to recover his funds where he deposited in a certain bank is outdated within three years. I think the bill promoter here has defined himself as an obsolescence of the claim on material donations that go out of date after three years. Since it is a bond-law relationship that arises in business, in deposit operations, I think that deadline should be far longer. Why is it longer? Because we have situations for citizens to come from abroad, bring funds, drop off at the bank, leave and don't come back. They don't have enough relevant facts and data about the bank's business, but they trusted that bank, they trusted the bank's credit rating when he negotiated it, and simply, after three years of not getting the information, they can't withdraw it. I think that deadline would have to be far longer and that antiquity would have to be within some optimal 10 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16915	The word has the MP Veroljub Arsic on the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16916	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let me say, in Article 17, that first part -- the deposit has the right to require the agency to pay the amount secured, the agency is required to ensure that the amount secured is paid to it within 90 days of the date of submission of that request. We're saying it's not a dispute, and what's the issue? Who's supposed to do that on behalf of the agency? This shall be regulated by Article 16(4). - "The Agency shall, as soon as possible, make a decision on which bank will, on behalf of and on behalf of the Agency, pay the amounts secured and conclude the contract with that bank. "Frequently the price is not a crucial factor, it is the most common explanation when tenders are being set up. The price of the service is not a crucial factor, how much a service in terms of public procurement will be accepted. Here will be the condition of the most likely branch network across Serbia, which the bank has, because it will be, the infrastructure the bank has at its disposal, deciding the criteria for obtaining the job of paying the deposit guarantee premium. What kind of banks are these in Serbia? Those banks that took up business space, therefore, the NBS, that is, the old payment services and those banks that took up the business space of banks that were liquidated in 2002 by the then governor of the NBJ. What's the name of these banks? The National Savings Bank and the Commercial Bank. Banks that have been revived have emerged on the market by entering the business space or NBJ, i.e. the PDO or the business space of closed banks. Now they have a monopoly and they can do whatever they want. Every job that goes through an agency, through the NBS, through the government, thanks to that network that's in one illegal, illegal and immoral way created by bank robbery, will get that job and make a profit out of it. So it's not the purpose of this deposit insurance bill. We'll see about that later in Article 18. The goal is to eliminate excessive competition and if there is anything else to be earned. With one blow from two flies.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16917	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. The government and the Finance Committee propose not to accept this amendment. The word has the People's MP Dragan Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16918	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's another piece of evidence that the new Rules of Procedure allows us to be this few in the O.R. I would return to Article 18 on which I submitted the amendment to delete for one reason why I find this law inappropriate, as far as the current conditions are concerned. If that were the case, I could make a few findings. The position of the SRS is very clear to the agencies, but also to the banks. The networking of banks under the staff of the National Bank and the Resoring Ministry of Finance is very clear. The situation with the banks can only be favourable to the one that works under the staff of the National Bank and the Ministry of Finance. As far as the agencies are concerned, I think there's an agency networking in progress, which would be a finding of a tour of the Minister of Local Self-Government, i.e. The tax administrations left behind only people who can be chiefs or heads of directors, who are loyal. Networking youth pressure agencies, i.e. New start-ups, small, medium-sized enterprises, a lot of them in the country. I think the pressure on unpaid debts in tax administrations is pressing entrepreneurs to take unfavourable loans from banks to just pay off and settle debts owed to the state. The agency established for forced payment will be secure about the agency regarding these deposits and banks. I think that finding is quite clear, that the networking of agencies is under way, as is bank networking already done. Article 18 refers to the protection of the Agency, i.e. People who deposit funds at banks. Banks that are in bankruptcy proceedings to fill the agency or settle the bankruptcy mass, i.e. If the bank can't do it, the National Bank will do it, so the agencies are totally protected about their business. The question arises what the agency is doing, doing business, what about winning, i.e. the means to achieve, in which the Agency further invests those funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16919	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16920	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, article 18 says "Deposit requests based on secured deposits are transferred to the Agency. Requests under Article 1 of this Article shall be made by the Agency from bankruptcy, in accordance with the law governing the bankruptcy of banks. The depositors whose claims to the bank exceed the amount secured, the difference between the claim and that amount is found in the bankruptcy procedure." We know very well, it wasn't that long ago, how literally the domestic banks were choked, how they were first emptied in one way or another by the vaults of these banks, and then liquidated. In view of the fact that domestic banks in this banking system only work two privileged banks, it is the National Savings Bank, which was also said to have secured initial capital from the National Bank deposit, which would have been at the Euroaxis Bank in Russia, so these funds were recovered and the National Savings Bank was formed. I don't want to talk about how all the payment service's business fund was given to that bank for use and that's how it became. What about the banks that are out of the bankruptcy, since the total capital of these banks will be previously withdrawn, and then there won't be enough funds for these deposits in the bankruptcy. Article 18 and no other member, I have reviewed this law until the end, does not regulate that question. Does this mean that the depositors in this situation will be damaged by the amount of deposits they have made? Does this mean that this law sends a message to future depositors – deposit your funds at the National Savings Bank not because it owns the national savings bank, or the good part of the actions of the National Savings Bank, Hamovic, Lazarevic, and is not the reason that the finance minister at least has some action, because everything he has done for the National Savings Bank must not have done for nothing. Deposit funds, and if you do not agree with the National Savings Bank at the Commercial Bank. All other banks are inequitable. We now have a situation that for more than two years Beobanka is in bankruptcy, and now has the funds in the bankruptcy to settle all claims against Beobanka and that Beobanka starts to function normally and that in a very short time it will be a bank that will be able to run over these two privileged banks in business. I therefore believe that the amendment to Article 18 should be adopted and Article 18 deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16921	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16922	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, article 18 reads "Deposit requests based on secured deposits are transferred to the Agency. Requests under Article 1 of this Article shall be made by the Agency from bankruptcy, in accordance with the law governing the bankruptcy of banks. The depositors whose claims to the bank exceed the amount secured, the difference between the claim and that amount is found in the bankruptcy procedure." The question now arises, why do deposit insurance and why should banks pay insurance in the first place, when, because of a political decision, someone takes away their work permit or starts to interfere with privileged banks, we will remove them, lead them to bankruptcy in connection with a bank, demand for depositors, or Serbian citizens from deposits, and the deposit will be filled out from the bank's bankruptcy. Then the question is, couldn't it have been done right away? So, the bank's license is withdrawn, bankruptcy is launched, bankruptcy is known. The bankruptcy is the claims of that bank, its movable property, and that's it. Then why the agency and what's the purpose of the agency? To sell out the bank as soon as possible, to shut it down as soon as possible. In the view of the 3rd of this article, it is said that the depositors whose claims to the bank exceed the amount secured, so that the claim can then exceed the amount secured and on what basis. The bank has to submit a report to the agency once a month to pay the insurance premiums once a month. How his claims are now exceeded by the amount secured, unless he was in a vacuum between the last payment of the premium and the closure of the bank, and not by his own fault, but by his bad law. It is given, in paragraph 3, the opportunity to settle its claims in a bankruptcy procedure. In this bankruptcy procedure, who will be his biggest opponent? It's just the agency. She will make those deposits she paid to re-demand from the bank's bankruptcy, or to settle the amount of deposits paid. Then what's the chance that this citizen whose interest you're in gets that difference of deposited funds in excess of the amount secured. What are his chances? Nothing. Why, then, in Article 1 of this Act, is said - this law regulates the mandatory insurance of deposits of natural persons with banks in order to protect the deposits of those persons in the bankruptcy of the bank. Then why does it say that?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16923	Thank you. Anyone else on the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Prvoslav Savic. The government and the Finance Committee propose not to accept this amendment. The word has a folk ambassador, Prvoslav Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16924	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 19. The draft deposit insurance law, which requires that the mentioned article be deleted, although this bill should also be deleted, i.e. withdrawing from the assembly procedure. The SRS parliamentary group submitted amendments to each of the members of this bill because they all have a similar explanation: -- the state and the National Bank of Serbia guarantee natural persons for funds deposited with banks. Given that bank operating permits are granted by the State, or the National Bank, it is perfectly normal for them to be eligible for the deposit of natural persons’ funds and there is no need to additionally burden banks, or to reduce the interest paid by the commercial banks to the deposit of natural persons. Such a law increases even more expensive loans used by legal and natural persons, all in order to continue robbing Serbian citizens by now foreign banks, since there are no others in the territory of the Republic of Serbia other than two domestically. All this with the will of former governor of the National Bank, and now Minister of Finance Mladjan Dinkic, because he is now a foreign star, right? To return to deposit insurance, including the savings stakes of citizens, which so far has been guaranteed by the National Bank, because the future job will be taken over by the deposit insurance agency. This, as well as other agencies, has been formed for reasons of hiring political equalists, Mladjan Dinkic, not because it will be a real guarantee in securing deposits. This agency will certainly do its job and secure deposits. How they will charge the commission, and pay the damages to the depositors – I doubt it, because they will make an effort, of course, with the help of Dinkic to find a way to avoid such obligations. Minister Dinkic is indeed an expert in the area. He proved this in the Dafiment Bank case, which he introduced into bankruptcy and thus damaged many citizens. As governor of the National Bank, he avoided the obligation that the National Bank had to guarantee citizens' deposits. He explained this by saying that the depositors who raised interest on the funds invested in the principal value do not have the right to the principal, as well as that the money they gave forms for the sake of, and not for, the reasons of interest. That's probably how it's gonna be with the deposit insurance at the insurance agency. The best thing to do is to stay out of business and leave deposit insurance in the jurisdiction of the National Bank, provided that the creator of the same work is not Mladjan Dinkic and similar experts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16925	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Simonovic. The government and the Finance Committee propose not to accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The People's MP Slavisa Slavkovic submitted to the 21st amendment. The government and the Finance Committee propose not to accept this amendment. The word has a National MP, Slavisa Slavkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16926	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment which reads: "Article 21 is deleted". Article 21 says – a fine of 100,000 to 3,000,000 will be fined for the bank's economic misdemeanour if the premium does not pay in a manner and within the time limit prescribed by the Agency, if it does not provide monthly reports on the total guarantee of deposits. The state and the National Bank of Serbia guarantee natural persons for funds deposited with banks. Given that bank work permits are granted by the State, or the National Bank, it is perfectly normal for them to be responsible for depositing natural persons' funds. It is not necessary to additionally burden banks, i.e. to reduce the interest paid by commercial banks to natural persons. Such a law will increase even more expensive loans used by legal and physical persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16927	Thank you, Mr. Slavkovic. The word is Mr. Buha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16928	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as criminal provisions are concerned, I think we've missed the law again. They belong to the provisions of the Deposit Insurance Agency Act. Why? Because if we go back to this law, we see that the material basis of this law and the legal regulations relating to deposit insurance do not indicate anything, and we see it in Article 2.) the deposit insurance agency. So, the active ID for filing a commercial offense in this case has an agency, and we haven't defined it here. Article 2 defines the concepts and we had to have it, but since we have a special agency law, we see that simply from the context of this law we do not see the active legitimacy of the agency. I think this member here is unnecessary and he must refer to the provisions of the Bill on the Deposit Insurance Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16929	Anyone else report for the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. The government and the Finance Committee propose not to accept this amendment. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Suleiman Spaho.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16930	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS, I have tabled an amendment to the Bill on Deposit Insurance on Article 22. I'll be brief and say that this bad law will increase even more expensive loans used by legal and physical persons. I have to talk to you, since 2000 until now, first DOS, and then this government makes so many bad laws that in every way Serbia is not allowed to breathe and wants to drown it. As long as there is any Serbian radical, (and thank God we are the most here) Serbia will breathe as much as it can. When our esteemed president, Dr Vojislav Seselj, returns as the winner of The Hague Kazamat, then Serbia will only begin to breathe with its lungs. The citizens of Serbia and Serbia will be far better. What do you say? It's such a bad law. You have not accepted our amendments and not only in this law, but in all laws. One of the biggest liars and frauds, Mrs Natasa Kandic walks free with Serbia and shame Serbia and Serbian citizens. He lies, and above all he lies about our Tomislav Nikolic party's Tomislav Nikolic's esteemed deputy that he did what he didn't and what all the institutions have indicated so far. I would ask her so publicly that this fraud as a Muslim no longer defends me and thousands and hundreds of thousands as far as I think. I am one to defend, honest and honest people such as Mr. Seselj, Tomislav Nikolic, Vukic and a million Serbian radicals of honest and honest people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16931	Thank you. Following the same amendment, MP Momir Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16932	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS and several MPs from the ruling coalition, as many of you as you are here, have reached a member who literally determines the answer to the question we asked at the beginning of Article 1, 2, 3 and 4. Where's the funds from? When we talked about hand-to-hand in the pocket of Serbian citizens, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs came out here in a replica of certain MPs from some of the MPs' clubs, I would not give them the right to reply again, and therefore I will not mention who they are, and you gentlemen MPs know. When we said that she had dragged her hand into the pocket of Serbian citizens, some were offended, some laughed. Article 22 says "The initial funds of the Deposit Insurance Fund of 700 million dinars are provided in the Republic of Serbia's 2005 budget." What is the budget of the Republic of Serbia, but, in the extreme line, the pockets of all of us living in this country. What is the budget of the Republic of Serbia, but in the end, the pocket of all Serbian citizens, out of those pockets, is being taken out to fill the budget. What is the budget of the Republic of Serbia, but something that you have filled through taxes, taxes, taxes, cuts, and other taxes. You've come up with a lot of names on how to take money from Serbian citizens -- put it in that budget, and now we're going to fill the Agency's fund with these funds. Of course, the jobs will be filled with supporters and activists of a political party, since it holds the finances, so that part will be satisfied. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have proven in today's debate that this law is, firstly, groundless and secondly unnecessary, because it has provided deposits so far, provided by the National Bank. Why the National Bank cannot continue to do this, but must form the Agency, a wide-ranging bureaucratic apparatus must be expanded as well. I, at the time of this pay phone, explained what bureaucracy, like amoeba, set up one clerk, in three days another office was opened. The two of them in six days will be four again, etc. I know that many in one political organization will find a catch at the same time as the last factories are shutting down or selling out for a bogeyman, the moment the employees of these factories go to the streets. Especially since in the union, the president of that union representing them, sits in the position of the chairman of the Board of Directors of the Employment Fund, in particular that you bought the other president of the union and especially that the third president of the union from one of your parties, one president (so as not to resent me), the union also deceives citizens of employees, unemployed, those who lose their jobs. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the smartest thing to do is, (if there is authority from a man from the ministry, I don't know his function, I think he's a deputy minister) to withdraw this bill. It would be best for Serbia, for the Assembly and for all the depositors in this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16933	Anyone else want the same amendment? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16934	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague Momir Markovic said how much this would cost - 700 million dinars. We gave someone a toy called the budget, so the kid's playing, a little there, a little over here, a little in his pocket, and a little recommendation to local self-government to fire the workers. A little by little, it is recommended that state administration authorities reduce the number of workers. Little by little, 700 million for new workers. What's that? From G17. What's been repeated here many times, at this pay phone, is actually an agency that we provide 700 million dinars for. The successor of the Deposit Insurance Agency, recovery, bankruptcy and liquidation of banks, established by the Deposit Insurance Agency, recovery, bankruptcy and liquidation of banks, will be transferred to the Special Account of the Deposit Insurance Fund, etc. So there's one agency, there's a certain capital in that agency. She's done these jobs before. She's already closed 29 banks. It has already sold out the business space of these banks – the National Savings Bank and the Commercial Bank. Those who ran that agency have already put a lot in their pocket. I guess there's not much left for the Deposit Insurance Agency. A new team is coming hungry and eager. That's why the new team of Serbian citizens will pay 700 million dinars to settle everything. I ask the question, which party will these new employees be from? From which party will the Director of the Agency be? From which party will be the Management Board, the Supervisory Board, etc.? Shall we again, on that line -- encrypted, Ministry of Finance, National Bank of Serbia, Agency. It's all kind of a circle.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16935	There's a word under the same amendment, People's MP Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16936	In Article 22, we mention the initial funds of the deposit insurance fund of 700 million. It says, "The law-proposer is an initial asset... ". So these are some initial assets that give the state 700 million for certain Agency affairs. Then, in paragraph 2, he says, "Existing funds from the Deposit Insurance Agency's Insurance Fund." So within the current agency, which was once federal, and now the Republic, for the recovery of banks, bankruptcy, liquidation and security of deposits, there are funds that are also in a special fund. They are the means and they are the means to cover the bankruptcy, the liquidation of banks. So there's no initial means. Initial funds are the assets that the agency has received from the federal budget while it was federal. It's an initial asset. This can't be initial, because there's something in that fund. So it could just be a certain donation that's given from the budget to that deposit insurance fund. I'm asking you, why would the state now single out 700 million in that fund? There's no real basis. So we're creating a future strategic situation related to bankruptcy and the liquidation of banks. It's a future. Right now, there's no need to raise those funds from the budget. Especially for me is the question of whether they are foreseen by the 2005 budget? If they're not foreseen, it means it's a non-intentional waste of funds. It could eventually be a budget rebalance for 2005, but now it's gone. The wording itself: "initial means", "initial means" for something, are not standing right now. Again, the bill promoter missed the definition of this member. I suggest that he delete himself, along with the total erasure of all the legal provisions we pointed to.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16937	Anyone else on this amendment? (No) The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Stevanovic. The government and the Finance Committee propose not to accept the amendment. The word is made by MP Branislav Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16938	Ladies and gentlemen, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 23. Proposal for a deposit insurance law. My colleagues have made a lot of remarks about this law, and so have I. In line with the previous amendments, I have submitted an amendment to Article 23, which, according to the previous one, says: "It is deleted. "We heard great criticism on the account of this proposal from my colleagues, for a reason, when it comes to the fact that you bulldozer revolutionized the shortcut in your way, by closing a large number of our domestic banks, while at the same time bringing foreign banks, such as Raiffeisen, etc., you brought in banks that lend loans to our citizens, with very large interest. I want to say that the Serbian government takes care of loans from the World Bank and the IMF, which are used for privatisation in our country. I have to point out that, because we have the case of Argentina and some countries in the world where the IMF and the World Bank have made dependent states out of these banks, that they can't be released from the crisis for the next 50 years. This law you've proposed should protect the citizens. But that's what I'm suggesting you can't say. Also, you gave agricultural loans exclusively to your party comrades. Very quickly these money was spent and the rest of the citizens didn't turn up for these ordinary loans, let alone for these grants you talked about a lot, and none of it was. But what do you say after so many criticisms under this law? I'm saying that we Serbian radicals managed to decrypt the encrypted party and say that the major crime in the banking system was committed by Mr Dinkic and Jelasic, who are being written about by many daily newspapers. Also, the efficiency of congregation work, often referred to by Parliament Speaker Mr. Markovic. I must say, that 45 draft laws that we need to consider and some 500 amendments in just 10 days can't be called effective work. This is forced labour, in haste, without quality discussion, without special debate individually on each law and every amendment. I want to say something about your democratisation of Serbia. Today we had a Privatisation Committee where you showed how democratic you are. You didn't let any representatives of Soko Sturka enter the Assembly, which we were supposed to discuss today on the Privatisation Committee. Also, you did not put on the agenda for the next session, (you gentlemen from the ruling parties) "Soko Sturk", where there are apparently irregularities of the Securities Commission, where more than two-thirds of the employees of Soko Sturke have objections. You didn't have the decency to receive these people, as we've had practice so far. It's an obvious scam and crime! I mean, this privatisation will make us servants of Germans, Slovenians, Croats and Americans. There are few people from Serbia who buy our businesses.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16939	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you go, Mr. Buha. I accept this self-critic we've been listening to a few times. As you can see, you're absolutely right. The budget is spending five million today. To explain why this law, on which there are so many serious objections and now we hear them, unfortunately, no amendments other than the amendment have been submitted in two and a half months, except for the amendment, have been deleted. I hope that doesn't happen in the future. I thank you for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16940	Article 23 The bill stipulates that the initial premium is paid by a bank registered in the court register after 1 July 2005. A similar formulation is provided for in Article 12 of the same proposal, which says the bank is obliged to pay the initial premium within 45 days of the date of entry into the court register. It's a little contradictory, that in one law we interpret the same legal thing in two ways. These are transitional provisions, but also in transitional provisions, we must adhere to the context of the law. I think the legislator, when he gave this formulation, thought of those banks that would be formed after the adoption of this law and that this initial premium refers precisely to those banks that will be established after the adoption of this law. If this is the case on 1 July 2005, it means that the provisions refer to the initial premium provided for in Article 12 and there is no need to redefined it by a special member of the law that has a completely different context. Also, I suggest that this member (repeatedly, there may be some elements of an interpretation) be deleted as such.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16941	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? (No) On Article 23 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 136(5), paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted by the Finance Committee. At its meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Proposer's representative adopted this amendment. On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stojan Tintor. The government and the Finance Committee propose not to accept the amendment. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16942	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, re-regulated and double-set, since we have two identical members. Article 24 says the three-month premium rate for 2005 is set at 0.1%, and we have the same provision in Article 13(2), which reads "the rate of the three-month premium is not more than 0.1%", and Article 24 says "the rate of the three-month premium for 2005 is set at 0.1%". In my opinion, it is unnecessary twice in the same article to specify both the base and the height of the premium.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16943	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? National MP Stojan Cvetkovic submitted to the 25th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee propose not to accept the amendment. The word is by MP Stojan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16944	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 25. Proposal for a deposit insurance law and I suggest that Article 25 be deleted for several reasons. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is obviously in office of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore the National Assembly session is set against the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, so as to prevent MPs from submitting the amendment and informing the public of Serbia through reason. The government of the Republic of Serbia is only determined to continue robbing Serbian citizens. Such a law will increase even more expensive loans used by legal and physical persons anyway. We have the most expensive loans in Europe today. And while a growing number of workers are out of work, expensive loans prevent the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Recently, it released data that 1,500 shops have been closed in the past few months, and this is due to Minister Mladjan Dinkic. In southern Serbia, the situation is even more difficult, especially in the municipalities of Lebana, Medvedja, Bojnik, Crna Trava, where the unemployment rate is growing from day to day, while incomes are increasing. I can't finish without saying that Lebana County was back in 1945. No factory works, objects and roads are left to fail, 3,000 workers are out of work, 2,000 families have no employees. Lebane is simply dying. A random passerby would conclude that there is a plague in Lebanon, not a democracy made up of DS committees, Karic and G17, SPO and NS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16945	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16946	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this last member of this bill clearly shows that not only did you lose the compass but you lost the calendar. Article 25 says – this law takes effect on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", and will apply from 1 July 2005. If you look at the calendar, and the SRS issued a very precise calendar that says it's July 4th. How do you mean retroactively to apply this law? I understand that you're trying to pass all the laws, which have some insights about some encrypted political organization. We'll vote on this in 10-15 days, while all the bill proposals we discuss will be passed through the procedure, and then this will be published in the Official Messenger. After that, it'll be eight days, and you'll be applying it from July 1st, from the day before yesterday. It's really amazing. I'm going to show the calendar to the ministry gentleman, and I'm going to give Mr. Angelkovic as chairman, so that this kind of law with such a falinky doesn't put it on the agenda in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-04-0.u16947	I thank Mr. Markovic. I have a calendar and you know that today is the Fourth of July, and here I am, using the opportunity, since you encouraged me to congratulate all the NOP fighters on Fight Day. I hope there's no one left on this article. This amendment, seen by Mr Markovic, is foreseen in the next Article 25, where the law is expected to apply from July 1st. Article 25 of the amendment lays down Article 136(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted by the Finance Committee. At its meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Proposer's representative adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search of the Bill's proposal, in particular, does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. I'm closing today's session. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
