ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. We continue with the point relating to the debate of the whole of the State General Budgets Bill for the year 2019. Mr Garzón Espinosa has the floor in the position-fixing round by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I begin with general considerations about the nature of the debate that we have here today and which we also had yesterday. It seems obvious to insist on this, but it must be done: the draft budgets are always a political project, a project that - far from any technocratic interpretation that implies that it is a question of economists in their lab working with macro-magnets - expresses the model of society and the ideology of parliamentary groups, particularly of the Government. It expresses, in short, the future that is being seen for our country not only for this year but for the next and subsequent years. That is why the debate should focus on issues related to education, health, social services, infrastructure and, ultimately, on the social state that exists in our country. This is what we should expect from a budget and from a debate of these characteristics. However, as we saw yesterday, these issues occupied a smaller part of the political debate. It seems that there are parliamentary groups that have no interest in talking about the social reality that our country is going through, a social reality that is going through a severe crisis in the form of unemployment, precariousness and structural poverty that demands responses and reforms from this Congress. Of course, there are other important issues that are also the subject of political discussion, but our parliamentary group does not share in any way that these other matters, which are absolutely legitimate, are priorities for the improvement of the lives of working families in our country. And at this point I would like to address especially the independence parties that supported the motion of censure to evict Rajoy of the Moncloa, because I share and understand the pain that you may be suffering right now; I understand, although I do not share, the cause that you defend, but I do not just understand in any way how to put down these budgets helps or strengthens the cause of the dialogue that most of this Parliament bet on. I would therefore like to ask you, on behalf of my group, to reconsider the position that you have at the moment because I believe that these budgets, as I will now say, are positive for working families in all parts of the country: in Andalusia, Madrid, La Rioja and also in Catalonia and elsewhere. As far as budgets are concerned, which is what we need to talk about, we should be historically situated. In 2008 there was an economic crisis in our country, in 2010 the government of the Socialist Party closed down to the neoliberal policy suggested and imposed by other European authorities and started a policy of cuts that can be synthesized in that expression that says: socialization of losses, privatization of profits. Indeed, although the crisis had been caused by multiple factors, one of them was the huge private debt, especially of companies, which in very few years was socialised, and that debt, which at the beginning of the crisis did not exceed 40% of gross domestic product, has ended up becoming almost one hundred percent, as a result of those government reforms; a real legal scam that transferred not only wealth and money, but also debts from working families to large companies. But it was also cut in public services and, therefore, in the quality of life of working families in our country. The budgets that are now in force, which are those approved by the People's Party, still today represent 21% less investment in education, 31% less investment in health and 54% less investment in promotion, and so on with respect to 2010. That is to say, we are still far below the public service quality levels for 2010, and this picture, this map, will continue if we do not adopt budgets that change this trend. Thirdly, as part of this same political project, the labour reforms of the years 2010 and 2012 made labour relations precarious, dismantled employment, attacked collective bargaining and trade unions, and ultimately produced a wage reduction that made the lives of workers precarious; a precarious life, in short, which looks very well at the figure of 1,700,000 fewer jobs than before the crisis, 28% of people who are currently in our country below the poverty line or the drastic fall in the weight of wages in income, as was pointed out at some point yesterday. These challenges that I have just posed, social challenges, are not the only ones that exist, it is true; there is the challenge of the territorial model, which yesterday occupied most of the debate and on which you know the position of our group, a position committed to dialogue, with a federal model and with the satisfaction of the needs of the popular classes throughout the country. But there are other challenges, such as, for example, the ecological challenge, because our planet is on the verge of collapse as a result of the fact that its biocapacity has been largely overwhelmed, and let us not forget one thing: in the end, the laws of nature prevail, and without a planet there are no nations or flags or, of course, budgets. All these challenges required greater courage on the part of this Congress to put forward future strategies for our country. The budget we discussed in this year 2019 could be considered a good first step towards reversing the reforms and cuts initiated in 2010. In short, this is the message, these budgets are a good first step to start correcting a lost decade and a decade of cuts that, of course, have very negatively affected the lives of the humblest and most working families, but the emergence of the social and ecological crisis would have required much more. Our group is proud to be able to say that we have contributed a great deal to this budget. Thanks to the agreement that we reached with the Socialist Party, with the Socialist Party Government, some of the measures in that agreement are already in force, such as the increase of the minimum inter-professional wage up to 900 euros and other measures that are incorporated in this draft budget that this House has to vote on; for example, maternity and paternity leave, benefits for more than fifty-two years old, and other measures of a marked feminist nature. These are budgets, and in particular these kinds of measures, which represent the popular classes, the women who will manifest themselves this 8 March and other social sectors, which are demanding progress and not setbacks. Other commitments are also incorporated in these budgets, such as a fairer taxation in accordance with article 31 of the Constitution; a Constitution that is cited for many things but essentially forgets all those references to social spending and progressive issues. These budgets could have gone much further in fiscal matters. In fact, the Minister knows that there are still many measures agreed with us that should have been incorporated into these budgets, but it cannot be denied that these budgets have increased the escalation and made tax collection fairer. As a result, pension lines can be reached that have risen by 6.2%, social spending has risen by 38%, and housing policies have risen by 41%. Of course, there are things missing, but these points manifest an absolutely necessary change of course after ten years of retreat. There are missing elements. For example, it is bad news that this Government remains committed to the path of stability, primarily because the concept of stability is pure ideology and hides more than it clarifies. The problem is that this leads to a gradual reduction of the public's burden on gross domestic product. This is very good with the symptomatic fact that the spending ceiling due to these budgets is lower than that which existed in 2016 with the People's Party and its government. In other words, we are witnessing a progressive disappearance or diminishing of the public's burden on the gross domestic product which, of course, reduces the capacity of the State to meet the needs of the working class. But the most important thing is that it is difficult to see in these budgets a strategic project beyond the one proposed by the European Commission itself. For this reason, I said before that the social and ecological challenges that are on the table, and that this Congress cannot avoid in any way, required much more on this occasion. They required, for example, to have addressed labour reforms. A strategic project should have accompanied these budgets by a repeal of labour reforms, the recovery of labour rights lost in the last decade, the recovery of the weight of wages and, ultimately, the reversal of the impoverishment of wages in our country. But it should also have included a strategic bet for domestic industry. A country that unfortunately depends, and much depends, on low-value-added sectors, which depends, and much, energetically on the outside, should have put forward an economic and growth model that would allow us to have autonomy in order to be able to design our country in the future. Unfortunately, the facts accompanying the budget debate do not abound in this respect. The Alcoa case, for example, points out that the Government of the Socialist Party has not wanted to accompany these budgets with that strategy bet that is required and that having bent on the interests of the multinational, of course, is not something consistent with a strategic bet for this country. The same could be said, for example, of what happened in the mining basins, those that have received Miner funds, such as the Asturians, or those that have not received it, such as those of Cordoba. The same can be said in a case which the Minister knows very well, which is the case of Linares, in Jaén; a people who have come out systematically, and continue to come out, demanding solutions to politics in the face of the deindustrialization and impoverishment that lives on their land, and who do not find in these budgets a strategic bet of reindustrialization, of autonomous economy, of sovereign economy that allows to respond to the social challenges as well and of enormous inequality that our country is going through. There is also, for example, a lack of commitment - among many of the missing commitments, we must say - particularly alarming, linked to what I was saying, and I want to finish with that. There is a lack of an essential commitment right now, especially on a day like today, in February, which is to lower the bill for light. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in February there are people in our country who are cold. In January, the bill for light rose from 7 % to 8 %. There are many families in our country who cannot pay the bill for light and are therefore cold in a country that says of itself that it is democratic. Our country had a public energy company that was Endesa. It was privatized by Felipe González and then by Aznar. She was then looted in a scandalous operation that caused her to lose EUR 14 billion and which she had the help of the Government, in that case the People's Party. We must also dare to use the Constitution. Article 128 of the Constitution provides for and permits the Government to be able to intervene, to confront economic power and to meet these social challenges. All that's missing. In short, things are missing, it's true, and we're saying it. There are many challenges that require greater courage on the part of this Government, but we believe that these budgets are a modest but first step towards reversing what has happened in the last ten years. We therefore hope that the rest of the groups, especially those who supported the motion of censure, will share our diagnosis and also the conclusion that there are not enough arguments to return these budgets. There are enough arguments to be more demanding with this government of the Socialist Party and with these budgets, but there are not enough arguments to throw these budgets, which are a modest first step after ten years of cuts on working families. Thank you very much. Health and the Republic. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u3	By the same group, Mr Mena Arca intervenes.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u4	Thank you, President. This is my neighbor Isabel's lease. [[Show a document]] He pays 400 euros, is seventy-one years old, lives alone and receives a pension of 624 euros. These days I'm always worried because he wants to know if we're going to approve these budgets. She has insisted that I show you this contract because she does not trust that all Members of Parliament are aware of the reality that neighbourhoods like mine, Torre-romeu, in which the crisis never went away, but that we learned to live with it. There are thousands of isabels who have learned to live by seeing that their children have to settle for a salary of 800 euros after years of unemployment and that their daughters are paying even less to do the same job; to live by saving up to the last cent to see if their grandchildren, whom they continue to care for, despite a hip made shreds, can afford a public university. Because, even if the Government of Torra and Aragonès refuses to face it, that is also Catalonia and, although we have not had the support of the Government of the Generalitat, this agreement today has the seal of guarantee of the Confederal Group and also has a lot of Catalan seal thanks to the effort of En Comú Puem. [[Applauds]] And look, ladies and gentlemen, we have explained a lot what these budgets mean for Spain and Catalonia. Let us remember, a community leader in abusive rental prices, with the highest university fees and in which in five years more than 11,000 dependent people have died waiting on waiting lists. In short, ladies and gentlemen, this agreement would mean raising the head of the lost decade of Rajoy's government. But this is not just about budgets, this debate takes place the day after the triggering of a trial that embarrasses us all who work for change in Spain. Mr Sánchez, dialogue is not a concession to the independenceists. You're wrong when you're scared of your barons or you're scared of the trident in Columbus' photo. Dialogue is today a victory, surely the greatest achievement of those we enter into politics to carry out the second democratic transformation that this country needs. It has cost mobilizations, breaking in with five million votes, an internal coup in your own party, exceeding the 155 that you supported and cooperating in the motion of censure. Your government, Mr Sánchez, is just the tip of the iceberg of all this and they have no right to mortgage this political majority. [[Applauds]] We are the hope of all those people who deny a Spain kidnapped by Vox, of which they are tired that there are some who understand that this country is a registered brand, of which they are tired that the trio of the photo of Columbus distributes cards of good and bad Spaniards. Mr Tardà and Mr Bel, you were also part of this hope with the motion of censure. Therefore, I ask you not to make the same mistakes, do not blow up all the bridges to end up voting with Citizens and the People's Party, not when Catalans and Catalans have so much to say about the democratic course that Spain must take. This week, as I say, the darkest days for Catalonia have begun in forty years of democracy. In this context, it is a historic mistake for Catalan parties to renounce their own voice and influence in the Government of Spain, as we do today. Why face this process alone when we have the extended hand of democratic Spain Why close the doors to alliances when we can push together to erase the inheritance of those who have brought us to this situation Why vote with the People's and Citizens' Party today, with those of the 155 permanent, when we can assert our strength [[Applauds]] I'm done, President. Catalonia, none of the Catalonias we represent here today are alone. The prisoners are not alone, my neighbor Isabel and her daughters are not alone, those who push for a democratic transformation of Spain are not alone today either. [[applause]] When CEDA came to the government, Companies told all of Spain in their speech: they will find in our Catalan people the most generous impulse of fraternity in the common desire to build a free and magnificent federal republic. I don't want a Catalonia, no Catalonia, alone. Catalonia is and has always been the engine of change and the impulse of hope. Let's keep it that way. Thank you. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u5	For the same group, Mrs Díaz Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u6	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, President, I am speaking today as a representative of Galician citizenship to the representative of the State, because in the end this is the case; it is about Galicia being also a matter of state; it is about how we value Galicia's budgets today. I have to tell you, Minister, that beyond good intentions these budgets are a contempt for Galicians and Galicians. They are not acceptable to In Marea because they are not acceptable to Galician citizens. Look, minister, we would have to go back to 2002, with the ineffable Aznar, to find such a low investment for Galicia. From Rodríguez Zapatero to the present the budgets for Galicia have always recorded twice what we have today, with one exception, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, 2017, with a Galician, Mr Rajoy, who took the worst blow to Galicia by cutting one in three euros in our budget. [[Rumors]] Madam Minister, we have told the President not to do so. We are aware, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, that these budgets are social, they are the most social in history. Minister, you know, you're not going to convince us, we've ripped them off. We have achieved the best minimum wage in history; we have cut off the pharmaceutical coffer; we have raised the scholarships; we have improved dependency; we have raised the pensions; we have recovered the unemployment benefit. [[applause]] It's our job, we know they're social. But, President, they are not Welsh, and to speak of a new Agenda for Change they must be social, but the agenda must also be territorially just. To speak of a territorially just agenda is to speak of a new country, is to speak of a common state project, in which we dialogue with the comrades of Catalonia, with Galicia, with Euskadi, with Valencia; that we build a life expectancy for our peoples. [[Applauds]] This is a new budget and a new territorial agenda for our country. Of course I do! We need a state, a minister, to take care of its people, but also to take care of its peoples. Perhaps it would be good for us to learn from feminism, because ultimately to care, minister, is not to impose nor is it to aggravate or to leave Galicia aside, as they have done on this occasion; to care is to reach out to us. By the way, speaking of feminism - there is Mr Casado, who is not interested in anything - we warn you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP and Citizens, that we are not going to let you put us in the past. [[protests]] [[Rumors]] Neither the women nor the workers of this country will allow you to move forward with what you want us to put in. [[Applauds]] We've already warned you. President, budgets have to comply with Galicia. We ask you three things: to reverse the budget cuts, to incorporate the multi-annual projects that have eliminated it, and to define a new Galicia with the infrastructures we need. We ask you today, Minister, to commit yourself to the Galicians and the Galicians, to come up here and tell us that if we continue with the negotiation and if there are budgets you will rectify the numbers that have put us on the table. We're not asking for the moon, we're asking for Galicia. We are telling them that they need to improve this budget, which cuts investment in our country by 20%. I'm done. Look, minister, there are more representatives from Galicia here, but their position is preferred. The comrades of the PSdeG are going to approve the budget say what their numbers say; those of the People's Party are going to vote against the government say what their numbers say. The old party, the worst in politics. [[Protests]] It's not our position and you know it well. We have fought for a social budget, but now we ask you to comply with Galicia, which also galegizes the budgets. Mr President, we in the social sphere have complied with you; it is now up to you to reach out to your minister and correct the budgets for the Galician people. If so, it will count on our support; if not, we will face up to it. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party... [[A Member of Parliament: You are the worst]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u7	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u8	... yesterday they lied. We cannot have a president who climbs this rostrum by falsifying data and humiliating women. So, no doubt, you will be defeated. [[A Member of Parliament: What an education!-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States We can-In Comú Ponde-In Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u9	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I have listened carefully to all the statements made by the representatives of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and I have to say, Mr Garzón, that you have highlighted this morning - and yesterday we had the opportunity to be able to deal with it for a long time - the goodness of the budget. The first thing I would like to convey to you is my appreciation of the technical and rigorous work you have done, and your deepening of each of the subjects that light up these budgets. It was a good political agreement, which transcended public accounts, so it will allow us to continue to develop some of these measures which are extra-budgetary, but which have a very important social burden and an important benefit for the citizens as a whole. We must therefore continue on that path in order to be able to fulfil them. The budgetary agreement we reached essentially reflected the spirit of the motion of censure. It was an agreement that tried to reverse the rights that had been stolen during the crisis, that put people at the centre of our political debate, and that therefore led to a change of course that in these eight months we have been going through with decrees-laws that we have brought to this House, and that they have counted with their support, with divergent positions on certain issues - we must also say - but that in the end we have had the ability to reach points of agreement that we forget about electoral revenues - with which some seem to be going all day entertained - and looking for a formula that would really allow economic recovery to capillary to the whole of Spain, and thus could reach households and be perceived by the people. I think it is important to highlight the political debate on the budgets today. I am referring to a position that we shared in the two formations regarding the usefulness of politics, the legitimacy of politics, as long as it is able to solve concrete problems and to meet the urgent needs that are posed by citizens, and therefore it is the one that calls us on a day-to-day basis to continue exploring those formulas that allow us to move forward. I thank the group of formations that make up the United We can put that ability to put that work, which is essential for all those of us who dedicate ourselves to public life, at the centre of all debates. Secondly, Mr Garzón, we have complied with the budgetary agreement. We have had different meetings at which we have checked that indeed all those budget items that had to be affected by the agreement did so. You have mentioned many of them, which have to do with the budgetary allocations relating to public education, basically in the environment of scholarships, the drop in university fees, the material and the textbook for those most vulnerable families, the ability to put the improvement on the table in relation to the procedures that must be arbitrated in the future in order to lower the bill of light, to have the ability to revitalise the fifth pillar of the welfare state, as is the system of dependency, which had been abandoned to its fate, only to the lung sustained by the autonomous communities, and which therefore required an impetus, required a revitalization... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u11	Wait a minute. Quiet, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u12	In short, all those issues that allow us to be able to cure the scars of inequality that have left this austerity policy to the extreme, to combat poverty and to put the economy as you said and politics at the service of people. I think we were joined by values, I think we were joined by the commitment and also by the desire to transform a society that had fundamentally problems in the day-to-day life of citizens, and that had to allow us to move forward. But I must say, Your Honor, that it is clear that the agreement we signed with your political formation did not exhaust the work of the Government, although you have referred to a far-reaching part, in which all the ministerial cabinets are turning much of their knowledge, which has to do with the whole ecological transition project in this country, which has to do with the project to accompany industry in that line, in those global challenges, in those challenges that the 21st century economy is facing us, and which will therefore be accompanied by the climate change law, which is also a law in which we have been working together with your political formation to ensure that the main complex issues that are reflected in this change in the productive model, in this change in the use of energy, in all that implies this model are placed on the table, as well as the energy and climate strategy, which, as you know, are fundamental elements that accompany the action of this Government. You said that the draft budget probably did not include all the changes in the productive model that we have to undertake in the future, and you are right, did not intend to do so; in fact, in parallel with the presentation of the budget, it was presented by the Government, by Minister Calviño, the Agenda for Change, which contemplates - let us say - all the vectors that have to affect this change in the economy, in that new direction that allows us to take advantage of the opportunities of the future. I always recommend a careful reading, because it is a document that sets out broad strategic lines that are good and convenient, because they are the beacons that allow us to know it not only to its lords, Members and Members, but also to the economic sector, to the markets and to all citizens; a document that seeks to know what are the keys, what are the parameters on which the economy in the future understands this government that has to develop, but also that it has had the capacity to concreteise a series of measures even with a timetable of implementation, because, as the Transitional Minister sometimes comments, the time we are not able to spend is wasted, difficult to recover. That means we can't have any delay in channeling this whole issue. Your Honor, the ecological challenge, the demographic challenge, this kind of strategy for the future in which the Government, I insist, has been working intensively, obviously require that we also have a vision of long lights, and that in addition to fixing the problems of tomorrow, the problems of today, the problems of social urgency we have the ability to know, to anticipate how the competitive advantages that Spain will have to develop in order to be on equal footing, and if we can even at the forefront of many of those challenges that climate change is posing. In fact, we from the Government live as an opportunity all the matters that have to do with the change of the productive model, because we believe that Spain has objectively favorable conditions to walk and be competitive in this line, although on the subject of renewable energy we do not need to ask what our opinion is, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are developing that double speed: the speed of urgent attention to those people who have social needs, to those regions that are in a complex situation, after a period of industrialization, on a basis that we have to be able to transcend, and that implies collective negotiation, involves work within the regions and involves development plans that allow such employment to flow to other sectors of activity, so that the regions can have an economy that is also driven by the action of the Government itself. You know that we are working intensively on these lines and - as I said - I hope that in the coming weeks we will discuss and debate intensively about the challenges facing this country and also Europe - this is obviously not exclusive to Spain - which will allow us to move forward. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that I share with you that the movement is clearly on the move, and that we have had the opportunity to agree on many of the measures that have been adopted by this Parliament. I am convinced that with many others who are about to come to this House this will happen, and I believe we have had the capacity to at least... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u13	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u14	... to present a draft budget, and I join your invitation, because it is a good draft budget for Spain, which is what this country needs, and therefore it would be important for the political groups to react from their vote, because the situation of job insecurity, the situation regarding the vulnerability of dependent persons, the waiting lists of our health centres or the capacity of a person to continue his studies is clear that they depend solely and exclusively on the political will of this Parliament to try to promote measures that allow his recovery, beyond the legitimate fact that each political group defends, in relation to other problems that this country has, positions that yesterday were widely discussed in this House, and on which I will therefore not again raise any added elements. The draft budget does include some measures that will allow us to develop actions in the infrastructure network of these regions. You set an example in Andalusia, the example of Linares. Remember that the draft budgets include EUR 140 million for Highway 32, which also means that it is not only a question of supporting the industry itself which is in transition, but also that our road network, our rail network, our infrastructure network accompany the growth of the productive fabric in those areas which may be most isolated or which may have been most difficult in the past to make the investment the same as it was. I would also like to say to Mr Mena, who has spoken on behalf of En Comú Pomera, that you know that we have had a dialogue and that we will continue to work to improve not only the quality of life of all the citizens of this country, and of course of Catalonia, but also on the possibility of incorporating in this draft budget such important issues as respect for the Statute of Autonomous Communities of Catalonia, the enforcement of judgments with the annuality that was agreed in the Joint Government-Generalitat Commission; elements that allow the volume of resources that reaches the whole of the autonomous communities to be higher than that of previous budgets, and it is not random. The autonomy of this Government is a determined bet; we believe that the welfare state, which resides largely in the autonomous communities, needs a boost, needs an injection, needs what we normally call a revitalization that allows us to continue to walk in excellence, after years of cuts and difficulties in providing in time and form the services that citizens need for their daily lives. I would also like to share with you the need for dialogue; I believe that yesterday we had the opportunity to discuss it at length and to continue to appeal to that common sense, to that sanity that facilitates the citizens of this country - and we said it several times yesterday - beyond the thinking of each political group on the territorial vertebration of Spain, to know that here, in this Parliament, their voice is present. You set the example of a person's specific situation, but there could be millions of people who would come to this Parliament to demand a solution to their specific problem of health, education, dependence, light billing, thermal social bonus or many issues that are peremptory in the day-to-day. Therefore, Your Honor, we continue to insist from the Executive on the need to take into account the advantages and progress achieved in public accounts, although it is clear that when one has to agree, to dialogue, not everything that would satisfy one hundred percent can be clearly contemplated. Mrs Díaz, I was a little surprised by your intervention, I have to say. I believe that we have had long talks - I insist - between the PSOE Group and the PSOE and the Executive Group on budgets, and I think that the whole policy that is going on in these public accounts cannot prevent us from actually seeing what is important in this country, and I am referring to the fact that legitimate issues cannot be put forward, from my point of view, with regard to territorial investments, in the face of the battery of rights recovery measures provided for in the budget. Let us say that the backbone of the agreement to which we came was the restoration of the social contract that citizens had lost during the time of crisis, the need to push, even above what had been achieved, amounts to ensure that a person who was waiting for a dependency benefit was met, and I say this because this budget includes the largest items of history in dependency or in scholarships. I think that was the essential thing that we had formed as the core of our budgetary agreement between the two formations. And I have to tell you that with regard to territorial investments, to the tables of the autonomous communities, we must review for the future the procedures that you have heard more than once, because they are not homogeneous, because we can no longer measure the volume of investments that a community has only with its chapter 6 or with its chapter 8, we must incorporate chapter 7 and also chapter 4 into those items that really go in the direction of boosting mobility or investment. All these issues do not have to become - it is not the will of this Government or any Government - a sort of ranking to see which community gets a higher or lower investment per capita or a higher or lower investment per GDP. I believe that we will also have to walk in this country to be aware that infrastructure policy is an element of territorial cohesion and a basic element for a government with a view to territorial vertebration. This means, putting the example of Galicia, that there is an autonomous community that for the past five or seven years is having a greater weight of investment, because high speed is coming - I say let's put the case, because this is an extraordinarily expensive infrastructure -, you cannot pretend that when the high speed project ends that autonomous community will continue to get that volume of resources, because if it would not be impossible for high speed to reach other parts of Spain. With regard to this policy - I would say that the whole of the territories always look at how we are reflected within that territorialization - we have to do pedagogy about the fact that the large infrastructures are put into the draft budgets precisely to address historical problems or situations in which a certain infrastructure has not actually arrived, where high speed is a clear example. You know, because we also had the opportunity to see at the different meetings we held, that last year there was a distorting effect on Galicia's investments that had to do with the load of shipyards. The Government of the People's Party incorporated as an investment - not only in Galicia, but also in Andalusia and Murcia, and some political groups denounced it in this Congress of Deputies - the workload of shipyards, an element that remains in force today. I even told him at the meeting that if this Government had followed that poor budgetary practice - from my point of view - Galicia today would have a greater investment than last year in comparative terms. Therefore, the investment in Galicia, which apparently seems to be diminished compared to the previous year, is due to this workload of shipyards and it is due to the fact that the high speed has been completed, and that therefore these resources cannot be maintained sine die in an autonomous community, because if not, we would not be able to meet the needs of the train also in other parts of Spain. However, you know that I have extended my hand so that these public accounts can be improved during the period of amendments. Therefore, if these accounts finally saw the light, it would remain open so that we could work on those issues that you and the rest of the political groups understand allow us to improve the percentage of investment also in Galicia. I finish my speech, ladies and gentlemen, by transferring that I think we have done a good job. I believe that we have been able to develop a draft budget which is a turning point in the recovery of citizens' rights. I believe that this budgetary agreement and this budget that has finally been drunk from that source is what was expected in the spirit of the motion of censure: to have the capacity to reverse part - and this is a first step - of the rights that were stolen during the crisis, and also to have the capacity for policy to be useful for citizens to feel that their problems and needs are really present in the debate in this Chamber. I also believe that we must continue to consolidate the alliances between the two political formations so that we can continue to develop a policy of progress, an equal policy, a policy that puts women also at the centre of the political debate, which is capable of meeting - as I said earlier - the challenges of the productive model, the challenges of the ecological transition, of climate change, of environmental difficulties in order to keep our planet green in the future. In short, I think we share values, I think we share projects, which may at some point be contradictory, but in which we have had the will to reach consensus and agreement. Therefore, as on the first day of my speech, I would like to thank your ladies and gentlemen, in particular all those who have worked in the negotiating group and behind the negotiating group, which I am aware that, as in our case, there are always many more people who are working on all these matters. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that any initiative that is pending to come to this House, and that it had no reflection on public accounts, can arrive as always agreed. We are in compliance with the agreements, the whole of the points covered by this agreement will be fulfilled. If we have budgets, of course, the budget figures will accompany it, and if we do not have budgets, they will be in the political spirit that both political groupings have agreed. This is the line, this is the job, and I believe that this is what the whole of the citizens expect of us. I'm sure they'll thank us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Garzón Espinosa has the floor at the turn of the reply.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, there is understanding, there is similar music, and I believe that we must recognize, as you have done, the work that has been carried out, with great effort, by the colleagues of our parliamentary group and their different parties and those of the Government, because it has indeed been a lot of hours of work, a lot of effort and a lot of interest in bridging differences and finding common ground that could carry out a satisfactory project, not only for the different negotiating parties, but above all, which is the priority, for the whole country. Therefore, as you have said, I extend thanks to all those who have worked in a context in which there was no guarantee - as is being seen today - that this could come out. We have worked with the intention of making it clear that at least there is an alternative to the three right-wing and their economic and social project. It has been seen in Andalusia how it takes very little to agree on a neoliberal policy, clearly against the social and working majority. Well, before that, there's an alternative. At the very least, regardless of what happens with this budget processing, it is clear to citizens that there is an alternative to the three right-wings of this country at this time. The situation in this country requires that agreement and that common spirit which, as I have said in my initial speech, has differences but which requires a height of vision. Since early 2019 we have been seeing many job regulation files in many and very different companies in our country and many of them are large companies, such as Vodafone, where colleagues are right now in the middle of an ERE. This government has the opportunity to be braver, faster, even. I don't know exactly what could stop you in some circumstances because I think the right has said so many barbarities that you can't say any more and therefore the government has the ability to go a little further, ignoring that part of the country, those right-wings who want to stay in the past, and building a space for the future. I say this very particularly because there are elements that we have suggested to you over the past few months - differences have been seen in some real decrees - and, if the Government has the will, we will send a much clearer and clearer message of hope to the families of this country. That is why I reminded them of article 128 of our Constitution, which is one of the articles long forgotten by political parties but which gives the Government protection to satisfy human rights and guarantee the most basic rights to the families and citizens of our country. I'd give him the example of the light bill, but I could also quote Alcoa's case. I believe that the Government cannot ignore that it has instruments in the Constitution to accompany these budgets with what you have said is its strategy. What we want to transfer here today to the rest of the parliamentary groups - because this agreement is already in place with you - is that we have the desire and the hope that the block of the motion of censure that has put the People's Party and Mariano Rajoy's government out of power will remain. We want it to be maintained because it is absolutely necessary to develop the laws that here, in one way or another, we are pointing out, outlining and because I believe that this block of the motion of censure is heterogeneous, it is contradictory at some points, but of course it challenges us to the future of Spain, in front of the three right-wings - the two with presence in this Parliament and the one that is outside at the moment - what they do - as we saw at last Sunday's demonstration - is to talk about the past, the immobility and, of course, to ride - as was said yesterday - in the face of the crisis, the hatred and the lack of politics. Criticizing dialogue is the absence of politics and that is a dead end. I therefore hope that, in order to address all the challenges we have raised - social, ecological, political - there will be a democratic spirit; that democratic spirit is very well crystallized in the motion of censure and in that heterogeneous bloc that we have managed to launch forward a project of hope. In any case, Madam Minister and Mr President, if the General Budgets of the State were not to come out at this time, we would ask you not to drop all the laws that are currently being negotiated, that are in process, that are positive and that, in hypothetical early elections, would fall. They are laws that are in our agreement and that are worth developing because they reverse not only economic but also civil cuts - as in the case of the law gag - which is absolutely necessary for us to correct. Therefore, I invite you, regardless of what is happening today with the votes, to continue with this spirit, because there is no other way out; the exit of the three right-wings is more confrontation, more rift, more confrontation between the Spanish; the exit of the three right-wings is really breaking Spain. Therefore, in order to build a Spain of the future we need to continue along this path by sorting out those obstacles that perhaps, as hypothetically could happen today, we need to solve. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u17	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u18	I speak very briefly thanking you for your last speech. Your Honor, I do agree that the progressive forces of this country are facing a critical moment because of the neoliberal and ultra-right wave that is pervading advanced societies, this three-headed right that we were able to witness yesterday in this Parliament, as well as that not only this political agreement and draft budgets intended to reverse the damage caused by years of crisis and cuts... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u19	Silence, please; silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u20	... but I also believe it is important to stress that the rights and freedoms that have been achieved are being questioned in themselves, the very existence that these rights can be developed in the future. I say this because, unfortunately, we have heard subjects relating, for example, to gender equality, to sexist violence or to abortion, which obviously represent an involution in the achievement of women's social rights and globally in this country. I believe that there are few people in Spain who want to go back to past times, times that were long gone, and that those who use that language are looking among their pretensions for that moment of involution. I believe that the progressive forces of this country need to be able to unmask all the theatricalization that is taking place and to deter some of these pretensions from being intended to be whitewashed, because sometimes it gives the feeling that things can be said that politically can be foolish and yet are approached with some normality, as if there was nothing behind them. I believe that we have meeting points, that we have had the capacity to explore and address them, and ultimately, Your Honor, we will continue to work towards improving the quality of life of citizens on issues where I believe we have overcome some traditional left-wing pruritus in reaching agreements and agreements, because I believe that the left of this country is aware of the political moment that is being lived and that above any other issue we are united by values, we are united by commitments and we are united by the desire to transform society itself. [[Applauds]] That is why, let's keep talking, let's keep arguing, let's clear the edges of the disagreements that occur in politics when two groups are not at all coincident and let's continue with the goal of recovering the social contract with the citizenry. You said that we were bringing the commitments that we have made during this time of dialogue - we are going to bring them and they are here in this House - the truth is, Mr Garzón, that in some of the measures envisaged in the agreement, such as the one concerning the law on biting, it is not the responsibility of the executive that can not go forward but that, as you well know - as I do - there is an attempt by the Bureau of Parliament to extend the period of amendments so as not to continue the processing of certain laws - issues that I commented on yesterday - and I even said that there is a paradox that some, in this noise that the right is trying to raise, say that we are using the institutions, when in fact in the institutions where the Bureaus are governed, there is an effective blocking of the processing of legislative initiatives that we have denounced on different occasions. Let us now again appeal to the political forces that are leading it to ensure that this situation does not occur and that the will that this Parliament will bring about in the laws with the majorities consolidated here will flow. We will therefore continue to work as before, but I also say to you, Mr Garzón, that we will respect and promote the agreements between the social partners - between trade unions and workers - within the social dialogue table, within the Toledo Pact; in short, in all those spaces of dialogue and encounter whose enormous usefulness democracy has shown over the last few years. Therefore, with regard to the situations that can occur in certain industries, it is essential that we also go hand in hand with the social partners because we are sure that the specific answers that can be given in each part of the territory will enable us to illuminate our road map. I said this in my first speech and I say this also now: we are not going to give up, like you, to continue improving the lives of the Spaniards, live where you live; we are not going to give up, like you, to shield social policies; we are not going to give up to protect the most vulnerable or to make, as you said, a fairer redistribution of wealth. We will continue to promote dialogue as the only possible way to resolve conflict situations and will not give up protecting democracy and coexistence. I therefore trust that we will continue to work together with loyalty, with responsibility, as we have so far, so that our country will continue to move forward and not back down, as the right-wing people want. Thank you very much for your contribution, thank you very much for your work and also thank you very much for your commitment. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. What a time, not so far away, when it was up to the women Members of the House and the economics deputies to lead the major budget speeches in this House! Today very few seem to care about budget content and we are the generalists, who know a little bit about everything and much about almost nothing, who are in charge of ventilating the discussion on the accounts. Hearing the married-riverist right, it does the same if these accounts are good or bad, if they are well formulated or not, if they can improve the well-being of citizens after many years of tightness. In fact, it doesn't matter what the budget contains because - they say - the Spanish homeland is in danger. We do not know whether well-being, economic stability, the improvement of the quality of life of citizens is, but the Spanish homeland is, or so they say. In imminent danger of what we don't know exactly. According to them, it's going to break last morning, without apparently, despite being a great nation, being able to survive after amputation. But in reality it has been a long time since the truth is the least in Spain: even the communiqués are made only with much veracity and the images sent from demonstrations are false. We are talking about ETA agendas in Catalonia, a coup d'état over and over again. Where they have taken the style book is clear: Goebbles already said that a lie repeated a thousand times becomes truth. They compare the process with 23-F; they release, as yesterday, a 'never did so much harm in such a short time' and remain so broad; they say they defend the independence of justice and the spokesman in the Senate of the People's Party presumes to control the judges through a wasap and still does not resign; they presume to respect the law and at the same time present in Congress and in the Senate initiatives to demand that the Government not comply with the Statute of Guernica and make no transfer. You see, the least is the truth. Words such as: betrayal of Spain, delegitimized, ridiculous, submission to independence, hostage, and even felons are often used. Man! The anti-face warrior! Come back to the comic book. [[Laughter and applause]] And then one comes to mind the name Bellido Dolfos. Some older ones will remember it, as it was the typical felon traitor, so qualified in the school history of the Franco school that some of us had to endure. That character, pretended deserter, after having killed King Sancho de Castilla was chased by the Cid with a horse's fingernail, until he took refuge behind the small door of the betrayal of the walled Zamora of Queen Urraca. It is still curious that today the Zamorans have decided that the Bellido felon has a street with his name in the city and the door has gone from officially calling itself the gate of treason to the gate of loyalty. The one who was defined yesterday as a felon today is already considered a patriot. How do tornadoes change depending on the crystal you're looking at! Aznar was a patriot to you when he negotiated with ETA through intermediaries, and with his current standards he would be a felon. Because that is precisely the last one, a rapporteur. A rapporteur! They have set up a scandal for someone who is not even an intermediary, but simply relates the matters dealt with and bears witness to deliberations and agreements. I'm not saying it; the RAE dictionary says it. I would have given them the same if instead of a rapporteur they had decided to put a bottle of fresh water. [[Laughter and applause]] They needed any excuse to do a swimming pool in the Neymar style area and scream penalty; that's what they needed, any excuse. The elections are not called on the street. You, who by the mouth are more constitutionalistic than anyone else, should know. If they want to change the government they should submit a motion of censure, although who would go as a candidate for government president in the proposal because, of course, it is a constructive motion of censure. Would Mr. Married I don't know if Mr. Rivera would agree. [[Laughter]] Now that I think about it, you can also propose to Mr Abascal, even if he is not a Member, it would be constitutional, in case you do not know it! Since they promote him so much and feel so close to him in his patriotism... And, after all, they've already posed together in the photo in Columbus. [[Applauds]] And I say well, they've posed. It has not been stolen, the work of paparazzis, they have done it voluntarily and consciously. [[laughs]] And I have to say that it is unforgivable that a party such as Citizens, which belongs at European level to the liberal democratic family, shares banners, stands and communicates with Vox and Mr Abascal. Can you imagine Mr Rivera Verhofstadt or his admired Macron in a photo and supporting a joint text with Salvini or Le Pen That photo will always chase Rivera in Europe. [[Applauds]] And stop saying they're a center game. [[Mr. Cantó García del Moral utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u23	Mr. Singing!
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u24	A true center party does not refuse to talk to other democratic parties, nor does it intend to change electoral laws to erase hundreds of thousands of Basque or Catalan citizens from the political map as if they did not exist. [[Rumors]] A true center party must always defend dialogue and never impose and order and command. What are you going to be a center party! They have used PP and Citizens their voice to further divide society. It's ironic that they put it in front of each other every day. In his mouth it has been heard that those who attended the demonstration they called were the good Spaniards. There's gotta be a collegiate who's got bad Spaniards then. [[A Member of Parliament: Otegi!]] Obviously, my group does not enter either category, but is it that the Spaniards represented by the PSOE, Podemos and other formations that do not share their creed are not good It is good the manifestation because the Spaniards we are united, said one of its demonstrators who spoke to a microphone. Obviously, you think the only Spaniards are you. And then the exclusive nationalists turn out to be us! [[Applauds]] I do not know what the President of the Government will do if the budgets do not go ahead. I may call for elections, but for my part I insist that if so convinced they are of the need to change the Government, they will present a motion of censure; that is what they should do, that is the way. And if you don't present it, it's because you don't agree with each other, and you're afraid the numbers won't come out. Paraphrasing the Don Mendo de Muñoz Seca, who so much likes some in this House, and taking my license to alter the numeral in reference to the Alliance Casado-Rivera-abascalista, I will tell you that it seems to me that to assault towers three Quiñones are not enough; more Quiñones are needed. Moreover, if they understand that these budgets are a disaster and that a majority of the House would agree with them, and finally the amendments as a whole will come forward, I do not know how much haste they have in elections if their own budgets are to be extended in force. [[Laughter]] It is ironic that some go out to the street asking for ballot boxes and others are in jail being prosecuted for rebellion for wanting to have them. Yesterday Mr Rivera told the President of the Government that the first right of citizenship is to vote. Yeah, yeah, except in Catalonia. As long as they just want to impose and not convince, the political conflicts in Catalonia and Euskadi will not be resolved, and the left must also be aware of this. The statements of old leaders, such as War or González, and of political leaders, such as Page, Fernández Vara or the ongoing diatribes of Lambán against Catalonia, have been striking, even calling for the illegalization of political parties, calling for immobilism, joining the voices of the right. The way of doing politics in Spain produces a clear rejection in Basque society. The constant not for the no, the lie, the continuous scolding, the search for confrontation and the scream into which the Spanish policy has become is unpleasant. The disaffection of Basque society towards these behaviors is blunt and we fully understand and share it. The President of the Government said that there would never be a referendum and that they would never recognize the right of self-determination. Let me need something. In fact, they did so in Suresnes in 1974 and in the Euskadi Transition behind banners calling for self-determination. Suresnes: Gonzalez, Guerra... The programme read as follows: The definitive solution of the problem of the nationalities that make up the Spanish State undoubtedly starts from the full recognition of the right of self-determination of the latter, which entails the power that each nationality can freely determine the relations that it will maintain with the rest of the peoples that make up the Spanish State. In addition, it was very clear who they were talking about, because then there was another paragraph, point 4, in particular, which says that the PSOE also recognizes the existence of other differentiated regions which, because of their special characteristics, could establish appropriate bodies and institutions. He was making a distinction and talking about self-determination. In any case, it is today and the President of the Government and his party say that there will never be a referendum. There may be no such thing today or tomorrow, perhaps not even tomorrow, but one day it will have to come simply because democratic progress in society will be imposed, because Western political societies are changing, because Europe will have changed, because the participatory processes of society will develop more and more, because political conflicts will no longer be regarded as democratically resolved if it is by force and because the social claim will be immensely overwhelming and will be by consensus, informing, convening and agreeing on majorities and consequences. In the meantime, we must manage our differences, find agreements that make us all comfortable, knowing that this agreement is neither the desideratum of one or the other. It is not worth the permanent unconstitutional 155 or the 'because I control the BOE' or the immutability of the law. The law is to facilitate agreements, not to prevent them! Budget policy is the most important economic tool available to a Government to establish its strategic lines and to be able to influence activities and measures of interest to citizens, apart from the decree-laws to which we are accustomed by the governments in these last legislatures, and let me be relieved. Once again, some have called into question the achievement of the deficit target, an objective, which, if it has been close to what has been expected in recent years, has been met by the surplus and by the fulfilment of the deficit by the local administrations and the autonomous communities, not because the State has fulfilled it. By the way, the target of 2018 will end with a deficit of 5 points above the initial forecasts and it would have been reasonable that in an exercise of responsibility the reality would have been adjusted to the objectives of 2019 initially foreseen, endorsed and authorized in addition by Europe and that they would, in the end, be for the benefit of society, an oxygen balloon of almost 6 billion, but that many left and right parties prevented it in this House. That is exactly what the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party voted for. In recent years, budget debates have questioned the forecasting of tax revenues for believing that they were overvalued. Tax collection was also called into question last year and, however, a 99% tax collection has been achieved with respect to the planned. In addition, this year there is a difference, as there are packages of tax measures such as new tranches in IRPF, effective rate in corporate tax, taxation in socimis and in sicavs, measures that, by the way, have been established in Euskadi for a long time. On the other hand, new taxes, limited cash payments and the fight against tax fraud. I have to say that, compared to those who argue that a tax increase always slows down growth, we say that not necessarily if you look for balance. Nor do we believe that reducing taxes directly increases growth. A social welfare state with less income cannot be maintained. The problem comes when you pay taxes but you don't know what your destination is or whether your destination is someone's personal pocket. Of course, the new taxes, Minister, must be agreed with the Basque Government. For us it is essential to fulfil the budgetary commitments of the previous Government with the PNV to which President Sánchez committed himself on the day of his investiture in the motion of censure. We have had moments of tension over the slowness and lack of momentum in the development of these matters, but fortunately the channels of communication seem to be working and various initiatives have been reactivated, there is dialogue with the ministries and the basic content of these agreements is integrated in the proposed budgets presented. Obviously, in the unexpected case that Wednesday - let's see what happens - the processing will prosper, we will have to make some adjustments and we would also, as the Government knows, have to close some new agreements. But the important thing is that there is an adequate climate for progress in the implementation of projects and that dialogue between governments and parliamentary groups works. In short, let it be promoted with political-administrative diligence as agreed. We understand that the budget project goes along that line and can benefit Basque citizens. Let me make a point about the spurious statement made in the Citizens' Amendment. It literally says: the Treasury's loan involves taxing the rise in pensions. However, if the quota is not adjusted, this matter is the responsibility of all citizens who do not have the privilege of being in a foreign territory. And they continue to wonder about the reasons for the PNV to demand greater pressure, as they say: since in the end the Basques are not going to pay... Let's see if they find out at once. One, we, the PNV, got pensions up last year and also this year, all pensions and especially widowhood pensions. We were the ones who forced the Rajoy government to accept it. You were able to do it, and Mr. Rivera didn't or didn't know or surely didn't think of it. Two, Mr. Garicano has been repeating the mantra that the State loan to Social Security is not paid for by the Basques. False. We've already told them and they're still not learning it. State public debt is included in the calculation of the quota, Law 11/2017, article 4.3.c). Wait, I'll read it to you literally. [[Rumors]] If they don't shut up! Really, it's terrible to be in that seat next to the Citizens Group, it's not quiet! Let me literally read to you Law 11/2017, section 4.3.c: the general burden of the State is the interest and amortization of the State's debts. [[Laughter and applause]] The autonomous community must therefore pay 6.24%. Garicano and Rivera, a lot to talk about concert and quota - yesterday Mr. Rivera did - and they have no idea what they're talking about! And as a friend of mine would say: one of two, or here there are some who have fewer lights than a smuggler ship or there are some who smuggle with broken merchandise. [[laughs]] [[Applauds]] There are more amendments to the whole tabled by other groups. I will not refer to all of them, but I believe that it is necessary to do so with regard to those of the Catalan groups, which are ultimately able to tilt the balance to one side or another. They know that we have always been respectful of their decisions and strategies, we share them or not at certain times, we have supported the right that assists Catalonia to decide its future and its own existence as a nation and we will continue to do so because we believe in it and because we defend the same for Euskadi. But with all due respect and without trying to teach anyone lessons, I must tell them that in negotiations we must always try to recognize the limits of the interlocutor at the juncture of the moment and know how to manage the times. You can't be thinking about what they're gonna say all the time. Burying in words or gestures may be the most comfortable thing, but on many occasions it is not exactly the way to be more faithful to what you want to defend. The content must prevail over the continent. The Catalans and the Catalans mostly want to vote in a referendum. They should be able to do it. Catalan political leaders have been suffering more than a year of incomprehensible provisional detention. They should be free and free. But in politics, it takes more than reason for things to happen. It is not enough simply to desire it and invoke it, and decisions must be made by raising our gaze and with a medium and long-term perspective, beyond personal or collective reliefs. Movements that are adopted one day can determine the direction that future events can take, that will draw us away or bring us closer to our aspirations. Some think - I know, more than one - that the worse it is, but that is never so, and less for the smaller and weaker part. In short, what I have come to say is that we have to do politics. Personally, I do not see the advantage for Catalonia of rejecting these budgets. I understand the emotional moment we are at, coinciding with the beginning of a trial that culminates in an unjust and vengeful provisional prison and which, in passing, has done little favor to politics and to constitutional Spain itself on whose behalf it is carried out. But for Euskadi, for Catalonia and for democracy the most appropriate thing from the perspective of the Basque Nationalist Party is to vote against the amendments to the whole; to continue the parliamentary discussion of the accounts and to try, if possible, to promote their approval so that the legislature can run out. And we will do so not because we are convinced that it is the budgets that we would have made, but because their vote can be a symbol, a disjunctive one, among which we understand that dialogue is the best way to resolve conflicts and those who understand that everything can be done at a blow of imposition. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u25	I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. I believe, Mr Esteban, that as the debate took place yesterday, the discussions, the discussions we had in this House, your speech this morning represents - let me tell you this - a breath of fresh air also in this House. I believe that it has - and always the PNV - had the capacity to represent the best of Spanish parliamentarianism. In the tone, in the measure - disagreent or not in relation to the interventions you make - and always in the spirit of your parliamentary group is trying to reflect on a question, with legitimate demands that I respect - which some share and others do not - but I believe that you always give here, within this House, a signal of mastery as to how parliamentaryism has to be exercised. Therefore, Your Honor, from the Executive and from my party, I would like to acknowledge the work that PNV is doing with these budgets and with other measures that really require dialogue, consensus, which will or will not come to fruition, but which have always had the attitude and the talent necessary to be able to discuss practically everything. So thank you very much. I would also like to say to you that I share a large part of the speech you have made this morning. I believe that these are good budgets for the citizens as a whole; they are budgets that, in specific matters in each of the territories, probably address matters that are most sensitive in relation to infrastructure or territorial competences, and also - and certainly not - to the benefit of which all the citizens of this country are fed in relation to public accounts, in relation to social measures that are reversed. In short, with regard to all those issues that you have commented on and which I believe to be fundamental that they should not cease to be present for a single minute in today's debate and in the vote. When we vote that no to these budgets we are denying that part of social progress that, as I said before, is fundamental for politics to really be legitimized by all citizens, so that there does not occur that disengagement effect that this three-headed right often seems to claim and that, therefore, it can be found in dialogue, debate and consensus capacity the response that citizenship requires, because representation is plural because society itself is expressed this way, because it itself is plural. Your Honor, with regard to some of the issues that you have commented on - which I tell you already that many of them I have nothing more to share - I do want to say that Catalonia is an indispensable part of the constitutional pact and has been a consubstantial part of it. It was present in all the debates that have taken place and it continues to be present in the day-to-day, despite the fact that some always pretend to give the appearance that they are excluded from any kind of negotiation or any kind of agreement. I say with this that in the situation in which this country started the constitutional consensus and the transitional phase both the reality of Catalonia and the reality of the Basque Country were contemplated and, therefore, Your Honor, we can continue to make progress, but it is quite reflected what are the diversity that accompany our Constitution because they have always been present and from the very beginning we have shown them. Secondly, Mr Esteban, it seems that democracy is sometimes represented in this Chamber as a sort of dichotomy between positions found in which it is only a matter of deciding whether to stay with one or stay with another. This Government and this party understand that this is a narrow vision of democracy. Democracy is a broadband that, of course, has different meeting points, different exits and different entrances and you have to go through that broadband to try to reach a solution that represents the feeling and expectations of the majority of citizens. No more democracy is made from a referendum approach yes or no referendum. It becomes more democracy when politicians are able to find consensual paths that allow us to move forward, to reap the aspirations of the majority of citizens and, ultimately, to continue progressing in progress and social conquests. That is why this Government has always given its hand to dialogue in any conflict and in any circumstances. We see no other formula for solving the country's problems than through dialogue. As you rightly said with regard to the full amendments tabled, of course the dialogue has a framework, the dialogue necessarily takes place within coordinates. It would be deceiving or deceiving citizens to deny that these coordinates are present, that this traffic in ideas and important issues that are put on top of the carpet when dialogue takes place has to run along that highway that allows us to meet and continue working. Therefore, there is no doubt that this Executive will continue to seek permanent dialogue solutions to the problems facing this country, whether it is the territorial challenge, whether it is to balance - as you said - the objectives of fiscal consolidation with a reasonable increase in public spending that will allow the reversal of those rights or whether it is an impetus to economic growth that will enable citizens to have opportunities for employment and to improve their quality of life. I believe that in the debates, whether budget or not, that we have held during these eight months we have found on both sides that this attitude of dialogue was present and that this government has had a real vocation to solve the problems that arose last year in the 2018 budgets with the Basque Country; elements in which you know that we have been working decisively and that we will continue to do so with or without budgets. As I have told the Group of the European People's Party, this Government, when it enters into an agreement, fulfils it and, therefore, uses all its energies to develop it and, if it encounters an insurmountable obstacle, gives its face, explains it and gives reasons why these issues cannot be addressed. I share all the exposure he has made about the taxation that the country needs. I appeal again that the taxation of the twenty-first century will require those political leaders in the economic area to explore the new areas of the economy in order to adjust them to a traditional taxation that is sometimes a suit that does not fit within that body. There may even be a situation of comparative aggravation between traditional sectors. We must be able to face the challenge of a globalised world, of an economy that also circulates through new technologies. We must have the capacity to recognise new areas of activity that arise in the networks and all those that remain to be discovered because, in fact, there is a paradigm shift in the relations between citizens and the market through these new technologies as well. I believe that the politicians we dedicate ourselves to public finance have the fundamental challenge of looking for that formula, those fiscal figures that allow us to better capture the contribution of those who legitimately have a profit, a benefit from the economic work that is developing in our society. We will continue in that relationship by exploring with you and talking about these issues that concern us. The fourth aspect that I wanted to refer to, Mr Esteban, and which we have had the opportunity to talk about also beyond the budgetary framework, is that it is true that in this country we need to take a deep look in the future - in the not too distant future - at how to control the new and various parameters in terms of fiscal consolidation in which we are in our country. There are autonomous communities that are in budgetary equilibrium, there are autonomous communities that are in surplus position and there are others that are still far from the deficit target, so I think this is an important country debate, it is a debate that we have to address and, therefore, we have to overcome those issues that the Organic Stability Act itself did not yet contemplate since there was, for example, no surplus, which it only contemplated for municipal corporations. We need to continue to regulate that the situation of autonomous communities is already approaching this type of situation in a significant volume of communities and, therefore, we must also regulate how and how this surplus can be used, beyond what are state-of-the-art agreements in budget laws. These agreements have allowed this surplus to be used by around three or four autonomous communities last year, but there is some difficulty even in controlling this type of expenditure. Therefore, Mr Esteban, I also hope to have the experience of the Basque Government, which in this area has much to contribute, so that we can all give ourselves a fair framework, an equitable framework, a framework that meets that diversity, because there are no two autonomous communities that can be equal and therefore we can walk so that we do not spend so much time managing to solve specific problems that result from the fact that the legislative framework is not adapted to that new reality and to that new circumstance. That is why we wanted to take up some of the issues that we have outlined only in our discussions in the course of parliamentary amendments. I am convinced that, regardless of whether it is the right place in the debate on amendments because this project thrives, in any case, Mr Esteban, I have to say that this government cares a great deal about the assessments that the Basque Nationalist Party wanted to make on these public accounts because that always enriches us. Therefore, regardless of whether there are budgets or not, we are also open to listening to your contributions and continuing to work on that line of consensus. I'll finish the way I started. I believe that this budget is a good budget for Spain, it is a budget in which, as you said, Mr Esteban, until the last minute there is a possibility that the groups that have proposed to table the amendment as a whole will be able to withdraw it. I believe that the experience of the PNV in the Basque Country can also be a binding reference for other groups present in this House and I believe, moreover, that the progress of a people is achieved through the word, through the possibility of being pragmatic and viable in the solutions that we propose from which the extremes often do not allow the encounter; a situation of measure, a situation of viable solutions allows further progress and I believe that in that you have been teachers in Spanish politics and therefore, from here, Your Honor, I want to acknowledge your work, listen to your contributions and continue to reach out. We will continue to work on all those elements that will improve the situation in the Basque Country and that will strengthen those issues that you aspire to achieve. We have a clearly established road map, a calendar of meetings of the joint committees that will allow us to continue to abound in the transfer of competences, in short, Your Honor, a long history still to be covered and I would like to thank you from here for your attitude, your talent and your good parliamentaryism. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u27	Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u28	Thank you, Madam President. I speak from the seat simply to thank you for your words, to reiterate that I believe that the important bet is the commitment to dialogue and to make policy and to try to find intermediate ways that, not satisfying 100 percent, satisfy everyone as much as possible. I do not know what is going to happen to the budget; if it goes out, we will talk about partial amendments, and if it does not go forward, we will continue to talk, because we will be here until the last minute of this parliamentary term, we will be claiming, we will be talking and doing politics. So I hope that in what is left of this legislature and in the next one what is required is dialogue and it will be over at once with this continuous sham. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u29	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u30	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Esteban, I would like to share the spirit of your impetus in this last intervention towards dialogue. It is a pity that Mr Married and Mr Rivera are not present in this House, because I would like them to have heard your words today. [[Applauds]] It must be that there are more important issues on your political agenda. But I believe that the contribution of all groups is fundamental and it would be good if that appeal that you made to democracy, coexistence and dialogue had been received in the first person. In any case, this Government will continue to work with its political formation. As you rightly say, until the last minute we will continue to seek intensive solutions to the problems that citizens have. Mr Esteban, I would like to reiterate my gratitude and my commitment to continue to address the issues that are on the table at the moment, through amendments, if the budget finally sees the light, or through daily work, which we have been doing, and with the convening of the joint committees which are scheduled to continue to make a reality that fruitful dialogue which gives results, which the citizens recognize us and which is the way, without a doubt, that we must continue to move. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u31	Thank you very much. The Socialist Group has the floor, Mrs Lastra Fernández. [[Rumors]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, Minister for Finance, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that we are in a decisive plenary as few, but not for the government, not for the president, not for this party, but for the people of this country, because out there, although we sometimes seem to speak for ourselves alone, there are millions of people who are waiting for what we are doing here. There are young people, women, the elderly, the unemployed, the dependents, the workers who are waiting for us to decide whether to improve their lives or not. One thing we have to thank the groups that have promoted this debate with their amendments as a whole and is that it will be enlightening about the conception we have of each other about our model of society. According to the right, or rather the right - because we always talk about three right but it is not true, it is only one because they always behave in the same way; Vox, PP and Citizens are the right, divided into three, but the right -, for the economy to go well the working people have to go wrong, and I will explain it to you: adjust staffing, precarious jobs, reduce wages, cut welfare status; for the right the inequality is consubstantial to the market economy, is what there is and point, there is nothing else. [[applause]] Some earn a lot and others earn very little. For some to go well, most people have to go badly. Socialists believe that it is possible to develop a just economy. There are no patches to withstand the pain of injustice, inequality and precariousness. We fight for the economy to grow by redistributing wealth in a balanced way. For socialists, the economy must be based on social justice, as these General State Budgets are based on social justice. This is a enlightening debate, he said, because then there are those who tell us that yes, that these are good budgets, that yes, that they certainly improve the lives of workers, women, dependents, the elderly, the unemployed, the young, but that they are going to fall down, that they are going to reject them because they are now in other things. Yes, these budgets are good for Spain and Catalonia, but now they're bad because now we're in the process, now we're in something else, now this about improving people's lives... well, if those details are left for later. For you will see, for socialists, the lives of people, pensioners, the unemployed, dependents, women, young people, will never be a currency of change in any process. [[Applauds]] That is the priority, that is our responsibility, that is our obligation: now and always improve people's lives. Falling down these budgets, rejecting them, does not improve the lives of people, that of no one, ladies and gentlemen, that of no one. You know that, and that's the worst, that's the incomprehensible, the unforgivable. Letting budgets stop being dealt with is not good news for anyone, we are not dealing with a question of party politics, this is a question of general interest. Those who reject these budgets do not have a single positive alternative proposal. We're standing on the right side of the road, the worst of it. It is a historical constant because every time Spain has really played it as a country, the right has betrayed the Spaniards. This has always happened, in addition to under socialist government, and is happening again in those days. It has always happened: the first socialist government, that of Felipe González, faced the challenge of convincing the country about the desirability of keeping us in the Atlantic Alliance and the right betrayed Spain by calling for abstention in that referendum. Yesterday I listened to Mr. Married - it is a pity that he is not here today - referring to a phrase by Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba. Do you remember the phrase, that we do not deserve a government that lies to us or we do not deserve a government that lies to the Spaniards The greatest betrayal this country suffered was the lie, management and deception that the People's Party made during the 11-M, which was when Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba made those statements. [[applause.-Mrs. Blanco Garrido: That cannot be allowed]] That was a betrayal of Spain. [[Protests.-Mrs. Blanco Garrido: What a shame!-Applause]] And, look, with 191 dead on the table... [[Rumors and Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u33	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u34	Yes, with 191 dead on the table, 1857 wounded, that morning the People's Party still devoted itself to laundering money. That's the People's Party, so they can talk to me about betrayal of Spain. [[Applauds]] After the 11-M, after the socialist triumph, they promoted a conspiracy theory in which little less accused this party of complicity with the massacre. By the way, the new right now holds as a parliamentary spokesman one of those black pawns who fed that conspiracy theory. [[Rumors]] Look how you all look. Years later, when the Zapatero government was fighting to eradicate ETA terrorism, the right again betrayed Spain by making electoral use of anti-terrorist policy, lying, lying, accusing this party, which paid blood to defend freedom and democracy in this country, accusing us of betraying the dead. [[Applauds]] Also with infamous calls in the Plaza Madrid de Colón, again, again. [[Rumors]] In the midst of the financial crisis, with the country at risk of bankruptcy, the great contribution of the People's Party is summed up in that phrase that Mr Montoro told Mrs Oramas to drop Spain that we will already raise her. Already in the Government, and while imposing the most brutal cuts in terms of employment, pensions, education, health and dependence on the excuse of the crisis, the right hand turned to systemic corruption that had to be judged by the courts in the famous Gürtel case. I'll explain it to you so you can understand. While cutting in health, education, pensions, welfare, 121 billion euros Paquí Pallá, 121 billion euros Paquí Pallá. [[applause]] That's betrayal of Spain, that's betraying the Spaniards. But we continue; forty years after we set up our democracy, the rights of PP and Citizens embraced and agreed with an anti-constitutional, anti-European, xenophobic and macho political force, with the extreme right, to evict the PSOE of the Junta de Andalucia. And it happened again just forty-eight hours before the beginning of this plenary session; the rights of the People's Party and citizens, with the invaluable collaboration of Vox, Home Social, Spain 2000 and the Falange called for concentrations based on lies, infuses and slanders against the president of the government. And then Mr. Rivera makes me offended because I said'mani facha'. Hey, what do you want me to call it,'mani progress', a love for love and harmony? That was this manifestation of the Nazis' hand of the Social Home, the Hand of the Falange, the Hand of Vox. [[Applauds]] That's you, you don't fool anyone anymore, you portrayed everyone on Sunday, everyone. And it is happening today, when the Spaniards have the opportunity to reverse the cuts of recent years by recovering well-being and dignity, the right-wings put their electoral interests forward and betray the country, because betraying the best opportunity for the Spaniards to improve their living conditions is betraying Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, it will be with a socialist government in Spain that the Spanish enjoy a budget that can regain the rights and dignity that has taken away seven years of right-wing governments. And it will be with a socialist government with which a hope of a solution to the problem of coexistence that we have in Catalonia can finally be opened up. It will be with a socialist government or not, as always when Spain plays it. Ladies and gentlemen, neither the right-wing nor independence are acting today in defence of the interests of those to whom we represent in this house, of those who have their best hopes placed in our work, of those to whom we owe ourselves. You have reason to reject these budgets, of course, no doubt, but they are not reasons related to these budgets, they are very different, they are partisan, electoral, spurious reasons and you will have to account for this behavior. Ladies and gentlemen of Esquerra and the PDECAT, there is a sufficient majority in this House to support these budgets, but they are vetoed with inadmissible demands in a rule of law, because it is inadmissible to demand political interference in a judicial process or to negotiate on an alleged right of self-determination that does not reflect our Constitution. You know it, you've always known it, you've always known what the limits of dialogue were and still put them on the table with the sole intention of invigorating that dialogue. The amendment to the whole that you have advocated in this debate must not cause us to reflect, it must cause you to reflect. It is time for them to reflect because, if we are at this point, it is not because of the unwillingness of the socialists to dialogue, but because of their intransigence and because of the lack of capacity of many of their own to understand the political moment in Catalonia. You have dedicated yourselves to asphalting a dead end. With their decision to reject these budgets, they persist in their error. We want to get out of this dead path and we want to do it for all the Catalans, who are suffering a crisis of coexistence and who want solutions. Are you really saying you represent Catalonia?Are you sure that you are doing this?All of Catalonia You crush Catalonia and if you reject the processing of these budgets, you will have to explain the meaning of your vote to your voters, to those who in Catalonia expect solutions to the social crisis. In December we had a debate on the situation in Catalonia and I told them in this rostrum the same thing as today: Listen to the streets of Catalonia, listen not only to those who want independence, but also to those who demand decent wages and pensions, better hospitals and better public schools. Listen to Catalonia most vulnerable because, even if it is not the one that supports independence the most, they have an obligation to govern for it as well. Our Government does work for Catalonia as a whole and for the Spanish as a whole. The day will come when future generations will study what is happening today in Catalonia and wonder if all this was necessary; they will wonder what sense had so much confrontation and so much friction, whether the full democracy that Catalonia enjoys today justified this path nowhere. Learn from President Tarradellas when he said: It is urgent for Catalonia to regain unity and to forget everything that separates us, because our country is too small to despise any of its children and big enough for us all to have. You once had the excuse of an immobile president, who used Catalonia as a political weapon, who made the conflict in Catalonia his bold weapon. The Government of Spain is now a dialogue Government which, despite the difficulties, has managed to normalize relations. Today they will vote with this right, with the right that this weekend was shouting in the streets against a president who wants to solve the crisis in Catalonia; they will vote with that right that asks to apply a perpetual 155, with that right that wants to illegalize the independence political parties. Ladies and gentlemen of the right - of the right represented here and of which it is not but which marks the way - in the last few months you have crossed all the red lines. The last was this Sunday with the failure of a concentration against the president, which was the staging of a strategy of chrispation in which they have been working since the first day we arrived at the government. [[Mr. De Olano Vela: Yes, yes]] No, look, do you know what happens that I have gone to many demonstrations - but for the rights of citizens - then I know when a demonstration is a success or not. That's the difference. He knows that some of us have a culture of going out on the street and demonstrating. [[Mr. De Olano Vela: By the Constitution]] I understand you don't have it. Mr Casado - I would like you to be here; Mrs Montserrat, please, do you move it - your incendiary and lacking attitude has no other name, has no precedent in democracy. At the same press conference he called the president of the government - I'm going to drink and get air because...-: traitor, felon, illegitimate, blackmailed, delegitimate, hostage, okupa, incompetent, mediocre, adalid of the breakup, ridiculous, irresponsible, incapable, chauvinist of power, egotist, disloyal, traitor, compulsive and catastrophic liar. At the same press conference. [[A Member: It's just that it is.]] And then he asked if that was chrispar. There is no Journal of Sessions that supports so much irresponsibility, no shame that justifies these disqualifications. Mr Casado lies, disqualifies, cripples, and therefore this parliamentary spokesman makes him responsible for the social fracture that is being provoked in this country, because you are doing it. [[Applauds.-Several Members: Oh, oh!]] Yesterday Mr. Rivera and Mr. Tardà reported personal experiences that are happening to their families in Catalonia about the rift and social fracture. And I tell you that in recent months most of the seats of my party have been attacked and the last has been the desecration of the tomb of Paul Churches and the Passionary. [[Applauds]] Lords of Citizens, we already know that what you have are advisors - we have been able to hear it all - who say that the important thing is not what is said, that the important thing is to like it well, that the data and that - as people do not understand it -... that the important thing here is to like it well because others do not know anything. But yesterday Mr Rivera filled out the Journal of Sessions of Lies, as is usual, spoke of false assignments, gave false data - for example of employment or VAT of the Autonomous Communities -. Right, Minister Manipula every time he opens his mouth and comes back here again as an adalid of equality between Spaniards, but he dedicates himself to confront them because he has a speech that only he does is to confront some territories with others, the rest of Spain with Catalonia, the rest of Spain with Euskadi, citizens between one another. He talks about equality between Spaniards but then deals with the extreme right that he wants to end women's rights, with the rights of LGBTI collectives, that he wants to end what we have built in forty years of democracy and that he does not believe, for example, in gender-based violence or that he wants to end egalitarian marriage. All this after an ideological peripulation, because it must be remembered that Mr Rivera started by saying that he was a social democrat but yesterday he told us that he was a liberal. Do you know who Macron's government is liberal? Do you know what the Minister of European Affairs told Mr Rivera that he did not agree with the extreme right; that's what she told him. Do you know what Mr. Rivera did to embrace Vox, first in Andalusia and Sunday in Columbus Square. [[Applauds]] Then he makes a completely obsessive speech against some of us, but above all - I am sorry, President - against the President of the Government. What I am telling you is that Mr Rivera should not pretend to deceive anyone, he does not mind the president of the government - he does not mind Mr Sánchez -, what bothers him is the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, because every time he has had the opportunity he has agreed with the right and the extreme right to remove us from power. [[Rumors]] He did it in Andalusia last time, he did it in Murcia, he did it in Madrid, he did it in Castile and León and every time he gets a chance he's going to do it again because you've already said it publicly, so you don't cheat on anyone anymore, don't come from centrists. [[Applauds]] And then I hear them screaming: We are the center!, we are the center! You've long lost the center and now you've definitely lost the north, as the vice president told you very well. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, they have been making an irresponsible opposition for months because they are maintaining a competition that is scorned to occupy the best seat on the right. The country's interest does not matter at all but, as I said before, they no longer deceive anyone. That is why you have accused a socialist government of ceding to ETA for complying with the Guernica Statute and therefore with the Constitution; you have taken buses to the streets calling the President of the Government illegitimate and okupa, thus attacking the Constitution; you have voted against the minimum wage; you have voted against a decree facilitating access to rent; you have voted against depoliticizing public television; you have abstained from the exhumation of the Franco dictator - perhaps you have already done so by means of the pact with Vox - you have agreed with the extreme right in Andalusia to vacate the left; you have again questioned the right to abortion; you have made a false and alarmist speech against immigration; you have opposed the Government while coordinating a common European policy on Venezuela; you have criminalized the President's ambitious agenda in foreign policy, and you have blocked a long list of laws from three or more. For example, you are blocking the right to strike of the workers of this country; you are blocking the Criminal Prosecution Act, which for me to understand citizenship assumes that what you consented to happen to the former president of Murcia, who is no longer charged because the deadline - man! - has passed and then you can no longer act against him, despite being supposedly a corrupt because you are blocking this law. Moreover, you are blocking the day registration, which is nothing other than fighting labor exploitation and what is sadder is that you are blocking, as we saw this week, the law of euthanasia. [[Applauds]] They gave their word to unlock it, they gave their word so that thousands of people in this country would have that right, Mr. Igea, and you and Mr. Rivera for pure electoralism and political strategy are blocking this law. And this spokesman doesn't say it, these people's relatives say it after meeting with you. They had to be ashamed of themselves. [[Applauds]] His political disorientation is desolating and there are no flags that can cover his shame. You have settled in a continuous exaggeration that is far from politics, because what you do is not politics, it is just noise. It says a letter from Victor Manuel: 'When you speak of the homeland / don't talk to me about the value / nor play with the sabre / nor traitor's tachen / to which you carry it inside / glued to the heart / and doesn't walk the street / with it in procession'. The Socialists are waiting for them in the institutions and when they decide to come back here we will meet. I'm closing, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, there are only two ways to conclude this debate: one, dealing with good budgets to improve the lives of millions of Spaniards and Spaniards - this is the path of institutional normality, of general interest, of the best present and the best future for the Spaniards - or, two, frustratering good budgets and facing each other's reasons before the citizens. We are grateful for the support of all the parliamentary groups - the United We can, the Compromise, the Basque Nationalist Party - that support these General Budgets of the State. These budgets embody socialist DNA. We shall therefore defend them until the last minute of this plenary session. Those who reject them, as I said before, will have to explain it very well. To the eighty-four Members of the Socialist Group I want to address now, and to the members of the Government and the Minister of Finance in particular, who have travelled...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u35	Your Honor, it's been a long time.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u36	I conclude, Madam President. ...its provinces explaining the budgets, which have met with civil society to make them better. If these budgets are rejected today, it will not be because of our irresponsibility but because of the irresponsibility of others. Comrades, we will be able to look at pensioners, women, students and the unemployed. We can be very proud of our work. This parliamentary spokesman certainly is. Thank you very much. [[Mr Gutiérrez Vivas asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u37	Mr. Gutierrez.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u38	Thank you, Madam President. By 71.1, I would like to ask the spokesman of the Socialist Group to withdraw, on the basis of his pre-election meeting, a slander which Mr Girauta has addressed directly to our spokesman. I'd like to ask you to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u39	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lastra.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u40	There has been no slander and therefore I do not withdraw anything. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u41	Thank you very much. [[Mr Gutiérrez Vivas asks for the floor]] There's no answer.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u42	Calumnia, yes, there's been...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u43	Mr. Gutierrez.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u44	... another thing is that I don't take it back. There's been slander...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u45	Mr Gutierrez, you do not have the floor. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u46	Thank you, Madam President. [[Rumors]] Thank you very much,...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u47	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u48	...Mrs. Lastra. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u49	Silence! Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u50	As I would like to make it clear: thank you very much, Mrs Lastra, for your speech, and I thank the Socialist Group as a whole for its work since we took over the government, a work that we have developed following the motion of censure which, as we have recalled during this plenary session, led to the exit of the PP Executive eight months ago. I would like to thank all the colleagues in the group that supports the Government for understanding that today, more than ever, politics means height of vision, commitment, closeness, loyalty, generosity, dialogue and agreement. This is the only way to accomplish the greatest of the tasks that we have here and that give reason to the Socialist Group: to improve people's lives. Ladies and gentlemen, politics is complex, as is the world in which we live. It is traversed by difficulties, contradictions, which are often difficult to save and obliges decisions that also bear a significant burden of contradiction. The good - we already know - is often the enemy of the best. However, there is something elementary, cross-cutting and basic in the work of a Government, an irrefutable guide that is also required at all times, something simple to explain and even easier to light: the obligation of a Government is always, always, and under any circumstances, that things go better for your country and that they go much better for citizens. This Government has been actively engaged in this task for eight months. We have come to this Government with the immense task of regaining the confidence of citizens in the usefulness of politics. I hope that the citizens have seen those political groups that we are getting to work and that, therefore, we are beginning to work and to deepen with enough insistence and intensity the problems they have raised, and also to regain the prestige of the institutions; that the citizens feel that those environments that represent them really allow them to deal with it, allow them to express their voice and allow their needs to be present. And I believe that throughout this period we have achieved that years of deterioration and detachment really start a turning point, a turning point, and that they are therefore a window of hope for all citizens. On the other hand, we also set our commitment to macroeconomic and budgetary stability in order to ensure - as it cannot otherwise be - the governance of the country and the sustainability of public accounts. I am referring to labour, social or environmental stability in order to meet the great challenges - which we have talked about over these two days - that we have as a society of the 21st century, a globalised society and a society that is changing part of its paradigms, to which we have to have the capacity to anticipate and the capacity to react. And, of course, ladies and gentlemen, we are committed to territorial stability, given the complexity and gravity of the situation in which the conflict in Catalonia occurred, after two years of disdain on the part of the governments of the People's Party. In this short time of government I believe that we have been able to respond to the fundamental axes that inspired this motion of censure and this parliamentary group - I have to say, ladies and gentlemen, in a colloquial language - to ensure that the projects that have come to this House have been able to see the light in a complex task, in a difficult task, in a task that has required hours of effort, hours of dedication and also hours of attitude of agreement and attitude of dialogue. Some of them are as important as the increase to 900 euros in the inter-professional minimum wage, where the majority of people are women and are poor women; with the revaluation of pensions to 1.6 and minimum pensions to 3%. During this period we have recovered something to which we have committed ourselves, such as the right to universal health care. We have guaranteed assisted reproduction in the health system to women who were alone, or who were lesbian women, and who wanted to assume maternity in solitude. We have taken measures against energy poverty. We've expanded the electric social bonus. We have recovered the social dialogue, addressing much-needed reforms with the social partners; I value the agreement on the protection of the self-employed and the decent employment plan, which I believe allow us to give two very useful tools to society as a whole in order to combat this precarious situation. We have put into operation the State Pact against Gender Violence. The draft reform of the Constitution has also come to this Parliament. We could thus talk about all the initiatives that are present at the moment and I know that many of your ladies and gentlemen are working intensively with all the political groups to see the light. I hope that this will be the case, they will see the light and we will also be able to contribute sand granite to the recovery of these rights in these sectoral environments. We have drawn up, presented and defended general State budgets with which we have wanted to demonstrate that other economic and budgetary policies are possible, that austerity to the extreme, that the policy of cutbacks implemented by the People's Party together with Citizens was not the only possible path and that it is time for economic recovery to reach the family and the middle classes, those who have endured the harshness of the crisis behind them. As you said, Mrs Lastra, we work for them every day from the government and from the Socialist Group and we continue to reaffirm our commitment to the people of this country, to social justice, to the recovery of rights and freedoms and to the defence of democracy and with it dialogue, exchange of ideas, negotiation and consensus. Dialogue, dialogue and dialogue, ladies and gentlemen, has been our sign of identity, will continue to be our sign of identity and we will practice it where we are present. We have been listening for a long time to insults and unsubstantiated accusations that Mrs Lastra has summed up perfectly. We have witnessed scarecrows and overactions by some of the opposition groups. I believe that there is a very clear interest behind this and that it should not be made political, that the citizens of this country should deepen in this detachment and in the disaffection, a very dangerous path, ladies and gentlemen, which only opens the door to extremism and populism as we have seen in other countries. That is why there are political groups who believe that we have to share all the symbolism that represents this country, that no one can give the Spanish card and that not only can we dress as patriotism those issues that make express reference to the homeland but, of course, to recognize the homeland is also to recognize the diversity of a country like Spain and, therefore, to launch political dialogue actions that allow progress and that allow confidence. And you have no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, where this government is from and where the Socialist Party is from. We will be and will always be with those who understand politics and dialogue as the only way to defend the common good, those who seek to correct injustices and inequalities. Because while the right is ascribed to the absolute truth about economic precepts, implying that they are capable of managing efficiently, which is rigorously false, we are clear that an economy that turns its back on people is inefficient from the point of view of a country's growth, in addition to being a tremendous social injustice. We will put and continue to put the economy at the service of the citizens and in the place from which it never had to be plucked. And, ladies and gentlemen, these accounts show what the road map this Government has: to restore rights and dignity to people and to reverse the systematic punishment they suffered during the crisis. These accounts seek to narrow the social gap and avoid inequalities. These accounts seek to call talent and offer a real bridge between generations. These budgets aim to tell our young people that we understand how hard it is to leave their home, their family and those who have us by their side. These budgets aim at working people, restoring dignity and removing them from precarious situations and guiding a change in the economic model based on innovation, knowledge, the generation of added value and not on the devaluations of living conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not concerned about the alarmisms of the right because it is a coincidence that always, as long as they have been proposed or made progress for the workers of this country, you, ladies and gentlemen of the right, have stood up and described it as madness, as unrealistic or as irresponsible. And whenever you have proposed progress in rights and freedoms, you have opposed and did so in your day with divorce, abortion or homosexual marriage. Some are always late for what Spanish society requires and live normally. Forty years are late, even some once they are there want to go back, but this society, Your Honor, no matter how hard it is for some to do, is not going to go back on rights or freedoms. [[Applauds]] We have been able to verify over these two days who are not at all interested, they are not concerned about the debate about improving the lives of the people of this country and they want these budgets not to continue to be dealt with in this House. Some believe that social justice is not their model and, in fact, think that this only seeks to favor those who do not strive hard enough. We have heard it throughout yesterday's session and I will not repeat it, but I will tell you that the rift of society is being used permanently with an electoral revenue that is not going to be obtained because the citizens know perfectly well who builds and who destroys, no matter whether with that attitude they also destroy coexistence. And others, ladies and gentlemen, because they ask for things that are impossible and that they know beforehand that neither this government nor this party want nor can allow. I will tell you that it pains me as a progressive to vote against budgets that contain everything that we believe is leading a society towards a path of greater justice. They can call us innocent, but we continue to believe in our way of doing politics, that is indeed new politics, that does not hold hands with shouts and insults because we have other tools such as respect for the other, common good, dialogue and freedom throughout the extension of its term. Ladies and gentlemen, today as yesterday and tomorrow we continue to work with the tools we believe in, in the society in which we believe and also being able to value the democratic roots of the Socialist Party, the democratic roots of the left, which are deep, and sometimes, despite the difficulty of doing so between so much noise and so much voice, we look to the responsibility of continuing to defend and do what we believe, and we must take care of freedom because the truth will take care of itself. I know that this party that supports the government takes care as gold in cloth that jar of our essences, of our values, that many - some here allow us to question it - have demonstrated throughout their history that it contributes to the common good, that it contributes to the progress of this country, that it contributes to democracy and coexistence among all the Spaniards. Let me also end by thanking the team of the Ministry of Finance for the work it has carried out throughout this period, the women captains of the ministry, the men and women officials, technicians and advisers who have made it possible to present in this Parliament rigorous accounts, which have the backing of our stability commitments, accounts which contain all the policy we have tried and which we will continue to try to develop throughout this period in which we are governing. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, these are budgets that have been made with rigour, with commitment, and so I would like to thank you immensely from here for your work. He said that all this implies talent and illusion, and I have no doubt that these policies that are reflected in these budgets, Mr President, will become reality before or after and before or after that will come to people's lives, before or after they will restore dignity to citizens, because it is justice, because it touches, because the homeland at the end is equality, because insults and confrontations do not give back lost opportunities and does so politics when it is really, when it is exercised with honesty and when it is done with a public vocation. Hope is a very powerful thing, ladies and gentlemen, and this group, until the last minute, hopes to be able to carry these budgets forward. As researcher and doctor Jonas Salk said, hope lies in the dreams, imagination and courage of those who dare to make their dream come true. That hope is our engine and our guide and with those values always, always, they will find us working. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and from the members of the Government, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u51	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u52	We now turn to the second item on the agenda, on the debate on the validation or repeal of the Royal Decree-Law 1/2019 of 11 January, of urgent measures to bring the powers of the National Commission on Markets and Competition into line with the requirements arising from Community law in relation to Directives 2009/72/EC and 2009/73/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 July 2009,.. [[rumors]] If you let me, I will be able to finish reading:...on common rules for the internal market in electricity and natural gas. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Ecological Transition has the floor on behalf of the Government. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u53	President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The royal decree-law whose validation we propose to this House today is eminently technical, but, curiously, it is also extraordinarily symbolic. It represents the will, or not, for dialogue and respect between competent institutions in the near future. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u54	Wait a minute, Minister. One moment, let there be silence and I will give you the floor. [[Pause]] Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u55	He said that being an eminently technical text has a great symbolic character. It is symbolic because it represents the will, or not, of dialogue between institutions with similar competences; the will, or not, of respect for Europe, for Community law and for the rules we have, and the will, or not, of making decisions on the costs of the electricity and gas system predictable and explicable, thereby facilitating the stability and confidence of investors and consumers. It is a real decree-law that seeks to solve the first question that the European Commissioner for Climate and Energy, Miguel Arias Cañete, asked me four days after I took office as minister. [[The Lord]] They're gonna let me do some intrahistory. On 11 June, at the beginning of the meeting of the Council of Energy Ministers of the European Union, the Commissioner warned me of the need to implement with the utmost diligence the directives establishing the obligation to assign to the national regulator, the National Commission on Markets and Competition - created precisely as a result of the change of government and merging sectoral regulators - certain functions in the field of regulation of the energy sector, in particular with regard to the setting of tariffs and tolls for electricity and gas systems. Indeed, at the beginning of 2015, the European Commission had initiated infringement proceedings against the Kingdom of Spain after a long investigation which had started in 2013. Brussels threatened to denounce our country to the Court of Justice of the European Union if it continued to shield the government's power to directly fix electric tolls rather than cede this competence to the Community body, the national regulatory body, which in this case is the National Commission on Markets and Competition. In September 2016, the European Commission gave the previous government two months to resolve this issue; two months became more than two years. The Energy Commissioner was sympathetic to the complexity of this matter and on several occasions defended the delay in the referral of the file to the court on the grounds that the complaints by the College of Commissioners should be limited to cases in which, in his view, the state's position was absolutely recalcitrant. And I quote in literal terms. In June 2018, regrettably, the time elapsed was so much that the Commissioner himself considered that it was already a sufficiently recalcitrant state position to be forced to ask me for urgent transposition, following the wake of requests from various economic and social actors asking the Government for the reform required by Community law. Thus, five years after the opening of the relevant investigation and two years after receiving the reasoned opinion in the infringement proceedings against Spain, the Commissioner asked the Kingdom of Spain for an essential reform in order to give a definitive solution to the problem and to do so in an imminent manner, even if a rule of law was necessary. To the resolution of this conflict, which I would call absurd, we have applied speedily, but also with serenity and responsibility for the benefit of certainty and legal certainty, in short, of the general interest. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, what we have in our hands, as I said, is essentially a technical regulation, which scrupulously respects the Community framework and which reflects the conclusions of the working group established between the departments of the Secretariat of State for Energy and the technical services of the NCMC, in order to identify as clearly as possible the functions proper to each level of decision-making and the way in which best to work on a basis of cooperation and institutional loyalty and with full respect for the autonomy and independence of the regulator, while facilitating early knowledge of the main energy policy guidelines that the Government must promote in a context of change as profound as the current one in all the countries of our environment. If I may, I will briefly share with you what the problem and solution we propose was. The objective of the third package is to deepen the achievement of an internal market for electricity and natural gas in the European Union, which is aimed at enabling consumers to freely select suppliers and to access regulated installations in a transparent and non-discriminatory manner. Therefore, in order to establish a key, stable, predictable regulatory framework throughout the European Union that provides legal certainty to all natural and legal persons related to the energy sector, the directives stressed that energy sector regulators should be able to take decisions on tariffs and tolls and that this did not correspond to the functions of the Government. However, the obligation to transpose the directives in our case was made incomplete and incorrect, causing, as I said, the Commission to initiate infringement proceedings. In view of the Commissioner's warning, official letters were sent last June to the Commissioner himself, Miguel Arias Cañete, and to the President of the CNMC, showing the Government's commitment to deactivate the conflict as soon as possible, reviewing the measures questioned by the previous Government and committing ourselves, at the same time, to jointly designing an appropriate legal framework. To this end, to find a division of competences according to the directives, a working group was created between technical and legal staff of one and another institution with the intention of being able, after several meetings analyzing the main aspects subject to evaluation, to prepare the proposal that integrates this royal decree-law that today I submit... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u57	...to its validation. The text responds to this urgent need, highlighted by the Commissioner, by resolving the issues raised by the directives and the reasoned opinion, being fully respectful of the Community regulatory framework and seeking to equate the Spanish competition framework with that of the rest of the Member States of the European Union. In this sense, this Royal Decree-Law 1/2019 establishes a division of competences respectful of the Community framework, assigning to the National Commission on Markets and Competition the competences necessary for the exercise of its functions required in the European context. This is the main purpose for which the Government adopted this Royal Decree-Law on 11 January, establishing a framework that is acceptable to the rest of the Member States and recognizing the technical capacity and criterion of the NCMC, which establishes cooperation mechanisms that ensure the proper functioning of the whole system, without prejudice to the ultimate responsibility of each level of decision-making in the field of energy. We considered it appropriate to improve the capacity for dialogue between regulators and the Government, while respecting, in any case, the respective areas of competence. We know that we have come from a time when this harmony and respect have not existed with the same intensity, but we consider it essential to work to ensure that this distrust is dispelled and to strengthen, as is the case with every democratic country, independent, stable and strong institutions, precisely because they give soundness to decisions. The relationship must be respectful and, to that end, a mechanism of dialogue and cooperation is established with strong roots in our constitutional and autonomous framework. The communication of priorities sufficiently in advance for its assessment and comment and, if doubts or discrepancies arise, the establishment of a committee in which to exchange views without any of the discussions that may take place there limiting the decision-making capacity of the Government in its respective area of competence or of the regulator in its respective areas of competence. We are convinced that a fluid, transparent and respectful dialogue with each other's competences is the best way forward. This explains why a mechanism is proposed to strengthen such dialogue and why the implementation of energy policy guidelines adopted by the Government and the Ministry for the Ecological Transition will facilitate the commission itself to have good information and anticipation of what the main energy policy strategies may be: security of supply, public security, economic and financial sustainability of electricity and gas systems, independence of supply, air quality, combating climate change, respect for the environment, optimal management and development of national resources, together with demand management, management of future technological elections and energy use. In addition to setting energy priorities, in accordance with the constitutional mandate, the Executive will have to approve the rules and monitor the measures that are applied to ensure supply in emergency situations. Finally, it will be competent to approve the structure of charges, methodology and values, maintaining a planning function of transport networks in line, in this case in reverse, with the recommendations made by the National Commission on Markets and Competition itself. The central purpose of the reform is, however, to confirm with force the functions which, in accordance with Community law, correspond to the regulator, i.e. the approval of the structure, the methodology, the specific values of the tolls of access to the transmission and distribution networks of natural gas and electricity and to the liquefied natural gas plants, the remuneration of the transmission and distribution activities of gas and electricity and of the liquefied natural gas plants, the remuneration of the operator of the electricity system and technical manager of the gas system, the methodology and conditions of access and connection to the transmission and distribution networks of electricity and natural gas, the rules of operation of the markets organised in those areas which are approved by the national regulatory authority in accordance with Community law and the control of the investment plans of the transmission system operators, and may make recommendations for their modification. How cooperation between the Executive and the Commission works Prior to the commencement of the processing of the regulatory circulars, the Executive may issue a report on the adequacy of the proposals to the guidelines, and in the event of discrepancies between the two parties, the Cooperation Committee shall be convened in order to seek understanding. This body shall be composed of three persons representing the CNMC and three persons representing the Secretariat of State for Energy. The chair and the secretariat of the committee will be the responsibility of both parties in an alternative and rotational manner with the periodicity of one year; that is, if discrepancies are maintained and an agreement is not reached, the CNMC circular will indicate that it is adopted in accordance with the energy policy guidelines without having to disagree or reconfirm or modify its own approach. On the other hand, the Royal Decree-Law provides for a transitional regime for the assumption by the CNMC of the functions without in any way being affected the legal certainty of the subjects operating in the sectors, fulfilling the annual cycles with which these functions are carried out. To conclude, and in accordance with the above-mentioned background, it was urgent to make a legislative adjustment that required, as I said earlier, the transposition of the directives described in a law-class rule; given the deadlines, the imperative to do so, we had to go to the figure of the Royal Decree-Law, but fortunately we have arrived on time and, as we were confirmed from Brussels last week, the competent service, that is, the Commission's Directorate-General for Energy, has already started the filing procedure. In short, ladies and gentlemen, this royal decree-law comes to an end, at last, to a whole period marked in this area by litigation, legal uncertainty and the misrepresentation between institutions and, moreover, seeks to ensure a division respectful of Community law, providing Spain with a regulatory framework that guarantees the independence necessary for the exercise of the functions. Therefore, I ask the House to validate the Royal Decree-Law, in accordance with article 86 of the Constitution, trusting that parliamentary groups will value the importance that they attach to the defence of general interests. Let me tell you that I consider this to be the Government's duty and commitment to the European Commission. We have worked to counter-clock and responsibly to ensure compliance with Community law and the filing of the infringement file against the Kingdom of Spain, in such an advanced state of processing for so many years. It is now up to this House to decide and, by voting in favour of or against its validation, to put an end to the liability and knowledge of the infringement carried over for years or, on the contrary, to give a good ruling which would be an unavoidable conviction of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the event that the decree-law was not validated. You decide. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u58	Thank you very much, Minister. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador Armendáriz, is taking the first step in fixing positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Esteban, spoke a minute ago of photographs, he or the PNV, which share photographs with Otegi, with the political ETA; which share stoves, kitchen with Otegi, to parasitize and control with iron hand the Basque Country and Navarre. [[applause]] Listen to him, listen to him, photos with which they never accepted the ideological differences - as Mr Esteban said - where they were able to eliminate them, with his consent or without his opposition. From center, you, I don't know, but politically decent, no. Minister, first plenary of the year, first royal decree-law, and it's already twenty-seven. You have taken it as your custom to rule by royal decree-law in this legislature; something Mr Sánchez, when he aspired to be president, openly criticized the previous government and committed himself to avoid if he came to rule; we will see. Madam Minister, not all matters governing your royal decree-laws arise because of an extraordinary and urgent state of necessity, nor do the proposed regulatory changes respect the constitutional principle of article 86 of being provisional. You have perverted the meaning and origin of this figure. Or you hope that the situation of necessity will come that makes an extraordinary regulation urgent or, worse still, they will include in a tangential way matters that have little to do with the main issue that, in your opinion, motivates this way of lawmaking. Today, ladies and gentlemen, it is up to the CNMC, under the threat of European sanctions, which would probably be eliminated by ordinary legislation. And look at the scope of its provisional changes: eight amendments to the CNMC Creation Act, twenty-four amendments to the Electricity Sector Act, 14 new developments in the Hydrocarbons Act, six amendments to the Urgent Measures for Growth, Competitiveness and Efficiency Act. I, what you want me to tell you, believe that you bring more confusion into the competitive and functional architecture of the CNMC and in the markets it regulates when you take advantage of this legal figure and legislation of urgency. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we will not vote in favour of it and we will ask, at some risk - it is true - that it should be voted on as a bill. Nothing more. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has started her speech by stating that the content of this royal decree was very technical, and I believe, Madam Minister, that it is very political, because she decides what the model of regulation of very substantial aspects of electricity policy is. What was a political anomaly was that the Spanish State was the only State in the European Union where tolls were fixed by the Government and not by the corresponding competition agency. It therefore has a very obvious political burden. My group, since its first appearance in this legislature, has raised this issue with you. Not only were we concerned about the dossier opened by the European Commission, about the criticisms that the CNMC itself had raised, but also some of the demands of the Catalan employers, who were very concerned about the decisions that had been taken by the government since the cost of tolls was determined by it. I must also remind you that in the validation of the previous royal decree of urgent energy measures that you brought us to the House we told you that our vote in favour of this validation would be linked to that issue, and the minister herself in her speech undertook to resolve this issue. We are on that ground and, therefore, we are going to vote in favour, as it cannot be otherwise - we are serious people - the validation of it. Today, I must recall that at that time when the government had the power to fix these toll costs, there were abnormal situations. We have discussed them on many occasions in this House and denounced them, because that governmental power allowed arbitrary decisions that made no sense and that, in comparative terms, discriminated against a very relevant part of the Catalan industry that is intensive in the use of electricity. It did not make sense that the regime that the Government decided on tariffs would only affect 1250 companies located in six territories of the seventeen autonomous communities. There was no technical justification for that situation. We hope that, where appropriate, the NCMC will correct the arbitrariness introduced by the previous Government and that the rules of the game that affect the cost of energy will be common throughout the State. There, if the CNMC chooses the model that was applied to those six territories, we will be absolutely delighted; at least the Catalan industry will be. In any case, today they will count on our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u63	Thank you, President. Egun on. Mr. Armendariz, how it hurts! You cannot bear or assimilate that you are no longer in the Navarra government, because you have always considered Navarra to be your courtship. Thank God, he's got fresh air in Navarre. [[Applauds]] Today, the Royal Decree-Law 1/2019 is brought to this House for validation, which gives back to the National Commission on Markets and Competition the capacity to approve the structure, methodology and specific values of the regulated costs and salaries of electricity and gas systems. A decree to adapt to the regulator all the powers recognised in the European legal framework on regulatory agencies, in particular with regard to Directives 72 and 73 of 2009. This is now being done because the European Commission said that Spain was in breach of the energy policy laid down in these Community directives and because there is also a reasoned opinion from Brussels; directives which form part of the third energy package and contain essential provisions for the energy markets to function properly. The controversy arose because in Spain the powers were limited to the energy regulator, leaving only the validation of the methodology for fixing the tolls and reserving for the government the competence of the tariffs. To resolve this dispute, Europe has concluded that any intervention by the Government is excluded from these directives or, which is the same, Europe has come to say that regulators must have complete independence from any public or private interest, including the involvement of the Government, and has also opened a sanctioning procedure to Spain for incorrect transposition. We understand that the decree has several objectives: to adapt Spanish legislation to the European Union, which requires independent regulators in both the electricity and gas markets; to avoid a sanctioning procedure and to ensure legal certainty for both energy operators and citizens. It is a decree that, in addition to granting a number of powers to the CNMC, regulates energy policy guidelines that will be established by the ministry itself and that deal with security of supply, public security, economic sustainability, independence of supply, air quality, etc. In addition, it provides in a novel way that, in the event of discrepancies between the CNMC and the ministry, they will be directed at a cooperation commission. It is a decree, as I have already said, that gives the CNMC a number of powers deriving from these two directives and that I am not going to reproduce, but that we believe that it is obvious that we need to reflect on the role that we want this regulator to play or what its role is, that is, why, why and how, in order to adopt a regulatory model that responds not only to the reality of the economy, but also to the challenges that may arise. To this end, it is not enough with the transfer of a number of competences due to the threat, among others, of Brussels. We understand that it should have gone a little further, and it is that, as has been said on numerous occasions, the CNMC must also have human resources and economic means, that is, an independent structure and an appropriate organization, in order to be able to carry out the tasks entrusted in a transparent manner and, in addition, it should be subject to accountability mechanisms. We understand that this should be done calmly, with time and listening to all the entities involved. This group will vote in favour of this decree, although we believe that we should go a little further in this regulation, not only because we have to comply with Community directives, but also because we need to strengthen the effectiveness and efficiency of the system of supervision of regulated markets and of defence and promotion of competition, as well as its independence and governance, so that, in the end, the CNMC can meet the objectives for which it was originally created - to ensure proper competition from markets - and, in addition, because we believe that the energy transition will require a stable framework for companies to be able to undertake the investments that this transition will require. But we will also be vigilant so that this methodology and the pricing system is governed by technical criteria and can also be developed with the listening and participation of the operators concerned or involved. Finally, we are going to reiterate, Madam Minister, the need to undertake a broader reform, but for this it is necessary for you to dialogue with the groups and try to reach consensus in advance, because this would make these real decrees more justifiable, given the number of Members who currently hold their group, and because they would also give us the opportunity to negotiate issues that will certainly improve them and, in the end, could be validated by a wider majority in this House. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u64	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizábal. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u65	Good morning, good morning. Minister, you see, with which you are falling and we are discussing the competences of the NCMC. With due respect, you have been forgotten the framework of this; the important thing is that the tolls have an impact on the electricity and gas bills of the most drowned consumers, of the most drowned SMEs, of the self-employed to whom your Government has not yet resolved how much of your electricity and gas bill, when working at home, has to be considered as expenditure. Tolls are a set of charges of about 40% of the bill, it is no joke, and they cost access to energy supply networks. The real decree-law that it presents is aimed at the return of competences to the regulator, from where they should never have come out, from where they should never have been taken away in 2014 by the People's Party, thus adapting us to European regulations. This action of the People's Party has already explained extensively to the minister the cost she has had in litigation in the Supreme Court and with Europe. It is obvious that electricity distribution requires a secure and stable legal framework, and we believe that we are giving some impetus in that regard. Another thing would be how to guarantee and exonerate the independence of the CNMC, because I remind you that the fines of the CNMC are laughable in some cases, as Fafua reported a few weeks ago. The NCMC should take into account the strategic priorities of the Ministry of Ecological Transition, i.e. the energy policy guidelines. This is why we are going to ask that it be treated as a bill. The political orientation of energy, of which Government, Minister That is the part that seems most dangerous to us. Considering all this and, as Joan Tardà said to them yesterday, despite the pain, despite the passion for a process to democracy, for a farce judgment, despite the lack of empathy of broad sectors of the Spanish progressives, the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left has endeavoured not to fall into the no to everything, to promote and maintain public policies of shared spaces. That is why, in spite of the things that we have pointed out and in the permanent and essential distinction between the principle of democracy and the principle of reality, we will vote in favour. Have a good time, thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u67	President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot deny or fail to express that I rise to this rostrum with a feeling of a little shame on things that have been said this morning and with a reflection: that one cannot ask for respect if one does not respect one another. To give moral lessons here those who do not respect, little. [[Applauds]] Let's go by royal decree number twenty-eight. I have already said on other occasions that it is prostitution, such as the meaning of the royal decree-law of urgency. It's just that we're going for twenty-eight in seven months. Moreover, in this real decree-law in particular something has already happened that did not happen in the others and it is that for this one they have not even called us to tell us that it was going, that is, we are already in a really imposing policy. To abuse so much of the law-decree tool is a sign of weakness and disrespect to all the Members in this House and to all ordinary legislative processes. This has been done by avoiding public consultation, i.e. by preventing it from passing through a hearing and by providing public information on the matter. The urgency motivates her because a fine is going to fall, because we can drop a fine. In this Congress whenever something like this happens, of an urgent nature, it's because the money box sounds, because we've been fined because we didn't do our homework. Then they'll say it's each other's fault, but this is the reality. They also refer to the urgency of the various judicial and community conflicts. And we agree, but do you know from when you know about the fine and these judicial incidents from 1 June, and from 1 June to 13 February the urgency has not mattered. I say that if it had been so urgent, the first royal decree of this government would have been precisely that on this issue, but it seems that urgency has now come, these days, suddenly. [[Rumors]] The European Commission has initiated an investigation into the transposition of Directives 2009/72 and 2009/73. That investigation concluded with an opinion that the transposition had been wrongly made, further giving rise to the possibility of bringing an action for non-compliance against the Kingdom of Spain before the Court of Justice of the European Union, as well as to the remedies of the CNMC. [[Rumors]] This leads me to think that it is true that the royal decree is brought running to avoid, since the CNMC has withdrawn its resources... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u68	One moment, Mrs. Rodriguez; one moment. I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u69	President, the intensity of the morning has passed and now they are all more relaxed, but let's go with the royal decree. A change as important as this should be based on consensus, which is avoided. There is talk of the independence of the regulator, which is also the aim of successive European directives. We agree that regulators are independent, but I believe that if it were not for the fine, the Socialist Party would not have brought this royal decree. I say this because every time my party has talked about the independence of regulators we have encountered the absolute refusal of the People's Party and the Socialist Party. So, I think this is something that if I didn't touch the money box, they wouldn't, because it's clear that it's not by conviction. Of course, a regulator has to ensure that decisions are made independently and not influenced by public or private interests, but the reality today is that the NCMC does not have the necessary powers or independence to carry out its function. From here we ask the government, that we do not know how long it will last - now we are waiting for Mr Ábalos to make statements, as the media have put it - to approach a comprehensive regulatory reform, but first we must all believe that we want regulators to be independent, and when I say this I mean that they make independent decisions and that they are not political. That's the key word, depoliticization of regulators, because if they don't, they can never, ever be independent. [[Applauds]] This text improves what was before, because we have already been warned that it was not transposed in a correct way, but for us, Minister, it is full of grey areas, areas that are not clear to us as regards regulation. We want it to be treated as a bill so that, instead of grey areas, they are all clear areas. [[Rumors]] Going to the part of the grey areas, I would like to point out that we are concerned that the ministry is arrogating competences... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u70	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u71	There's little left, guys, come on; I think we can all make an effort. The ministry is arrogated, through this royal decree, a list of infinite powers, and that list of infinite powers sets us alarm as to whether or not it can be trusted that the ministry at some point in particular will be arrogated the powers that are apparently being transferred to the CNMC on the basis of this infinite list. As I say, and to sum up - as it seems that my colleagues are very tired today - the text avoids legal action, which is why we think it is important, but we have seen the importance since June 1, which is when the alert jumped, not now, at the last moment. It also seems to us that it is not an overly ambitious text. Madam Minister, we would have liked to have spoken to try to bring an agreed text, but the Government's aim is to come here in a tax-free way, as if it had an absolute majority, without talking to anyone. Therefore, the text does not address the reform that the regulator needs at this time for its depoliticization and for its independence to be guaranteed; that is why we want it to be treated as a bill, because we believe that we need to go a step further. We are going to frame this not only for the CNMC, but also to try to make all regulators independent and, for example, the Nuclear Security Council does not agree from behind, by dividing the shillings, which are also doing so. Therefore, believing and defending that regulators have to be independent, we agree that this text will arrive today. We, as I say, will ask that it be treated as a bill. The wording improves what was previously, but there are many grey areas. I would like, in case you already determine that the Spanish can decide which government they want, that for the following sessions or legislative processes we try to reach agreements, because one cannot ask for respect from ignorance and neither can he boast of something that is lacking. You can't ask for dialogue when real decrees are brought here every day and no one has dialogued with anyone. [[Applauds]] To close, President, I will simply say that the most dangerous thing in democracy is pride and I believe it is what this government is sinning for. See you later, fellas. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u72	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Martínez Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. The speakers before me have explained very well what this royal decree is about: to return to the CNMC some competences that in 2014 the Government of the People's Party took away from it, as dictated by European legislation, which tells us what the model of regulator is and what competences it has to have. These competencies, as I say, should be in the hands of the CNMC. What competencies are Regular costs and tolls for the use of grids and electric transport. What exactly does this mean?How much do we pay Red Electric and electrical companies for the use of infrastructure; in simple language, for cables. We are talking about more than EUR 7 billion a year, so you can get an idea of the importance of who sets these costs and how, first, because it is a very important part of the electricity bill and, second, because it is also a very important part of the benefit of electricity. This amount can be calculated with criteria, with a technical methodology that evaluates the remuneration and depreciation of these facilities, or can be used as a political bargaining tool of the Government with electricity. Therefore, it is important that these competences be returned to the CNMC and the setting of these costs is done with technical criteria, because in this way I believe that the electrical system will gain enormously in transparency. This leads us to another debate: what model of regulator should we have for these powers to be exercised with guarantees. Clearly, the model of economic governance of the twenty-first century is based on independent regulators. It can be questioned, it can be reviewed, it is questionable, but it is the model we have and we must try to equip it with the best possible institutional architecture. Three years after its creation, a debate was opened on the reform of the NCCM. It was a debate with a lot of noise, with a lot of uncertainty, without a clear model, with a logic of power, with obvious interests, which was based on form: whether they had this regulation and these competences together or separate. There are examples of both models in all countries; both models have advantages and drawbacks, but in this substantive debate there is still a lack of... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u74	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u75	...the most important thing: for what we want a regulator, what economy this institution will have to regulate in ten years. And here we have it, this institution will have to regulate energy transition, digitisation, mobility and telecommunications. That is the great substantive debate. It is not so much the way in which we want the economic governance of the twenty-first century and what characteristics we give this body so that it can exercise its powers without distortions, protecting consumers and mitigating the excesses of the market. Our model for such an institution, for a regulator, is based on four characteristics, and the first is independence. Of course, advisors cannot represent the interests of political parties, must be people with credit, knowledge and must have democratic legitimacy. To this day, the councillors come and declare in Congress, but it is a mere process, because there is no real accountability, a real assessment by the members of Congress. It is urgent to seek an appointment procedure to ensure this independence. In the recent past, there have been baffling cases of councillors who belonged to the executive of a party, and it is enough for a single councillor to have bad practices and not demonstrate his independence so that the prestige, image and credibility of the institution are damaged. Secondly, regulators must have the powers they have. This royal decree solves the lack of power competence, but there is still a lack of other great competence that the European directives say must have the CNMC, and it is the management of the radio space. This, ladies and gentlemen, is important in everything that has to do with the management of telecommunications companies, the implementation of 5G in our country. Thirdly, it must have proper funding and human resources management that gives it flexibility in order to be able to hire the best people for each case, for each case. They think that these agencies are facing the legal machinery of large companies and need to have the best people in order to manage their budget in the best way. This requires transparency, financial control and accountability, both of the budget, human resources, functioning and agreements, and above all democratic control by the Chambers. We will therefore support this royal decree, which - as I said - puts an end to an irregularity and will prevent Spain from being punished. I would like to use the last few minutes of my time to express my gratitude, since today is my last plenary session as a Member of Parliament in this House and in this Parliament. I would like to thank all my colleagues in the parliamentary group, the technical team, the support, the work and the learning of these years. [[Applauds]] I would also like to thank all the Members and Members of other parliamentary groups with whom I have had the opportunity to work, to reach agreements, to exchange ideas and to debate. [[Applauds]] I would also like to make a special mention of my colleagues in the Committee on Science. I think it has been an example of good parliamentary practice because of the synergies that we have achieved between all the spokesmen of the groups, the scientific community and the two governments that we have had in this legislature. We have achieved things and I believe that, despite not being in the media, it is an example of how we can work from the political difference. [[Applause. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]] Three years ago my parliamentary group came to this House and we began to receive all kinds of lessons about parliamentary decorum, forms and attitudes; and in these three years I have learned that if dignity depends on something this House is not so much the number of t-shirts or the number of ties, but the forms and attitudes to the debates. We are at a time when I believe that this institution is deteriorating the debate; there is too much noise, too much exaggeration; noise that does not let us hear transcendental debates that are taking place in other forums and in other spaces, citizen, municipal, international and business spaces. We are at a time when, at the beginning of the 21st century, we would have to be making agreements for decades: how we are going to deal with the ecological crisis, with climate change; what impact digitalisation is going to have not only on employment, but also on our society; how we are going to realize women's rights; how we are going to make it work for all people to have equal opportunities. Politics has to be useful to the challenges of the time that has touched us to live and I have many doubts that this is being the case. I fear that we are creating disaffection in citizenship, and disaffection is the greatest enemy of democracy that many of you claim to be defending. Thank you very much for everything you have learned; it has been an honor and a pleasure. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u76	Thank you very much, Mrs Martínez; thank you very much for your work. [[Mrs Rodríguez Hernández, Mrs Melisa, asks for the floor]] Mrs. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u77	President, by Rule 71.1, on personal allusions, if I may.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u78	Yeah. Say the specific allusion and sew it on me.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u79	I wanted to thank the colleague for the work we have had in the Commission, because, although we do not always think the same, it has been a pleasure. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u80	Mrs. Rodriguez, we thank you for your words. I thought yours was built into mine. Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lucio Carrasco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in today's debate I must, before starting my argument, repeat the name of the royal decree-law that we intend to validate, because it explains itself. It says the title that it is a real decree-law of urgent measures to adapt the powers of the CNMC to the requirements arising from Community law. Well, that is what it is about, that we are able to bring our legislation into line with European legislation. That is to say, if we do not validate this royal decree-law it would mean going against the European directives, against the European Union and, curiously, against Commissioner Cañete, who raised the Kingdom of Spain, when governing the People's Party, the reasoned opinion for compliance with that regulation. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the Commissioner for Energy and Climate Action, Mr Arias Cañete, while governing the People's Party, had this opinion hidden in a drawer at the request of former Minister Nadal, whom I do not see here today. But at the time the Government changed, it quickly left that dark place to raise the problem with the incoming Government, the socialist Government. Thus, Mr Cañete quickly freed himself from the compromise to which his own party and his own Government had submitted; a very honest attitude, right? Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Government and the parliamentary group to which I belong consider that being Europeanists or deeply Europeanists, as some people like to say, is to fulfil our duties as members of the Union and the main duty is to comply with Community law. We must defend our positions as a country at the right procedural time, but we must also abide by the decisions taken democratically by the European institutions. They will all agree with me that it is not worth asking others to comply with the law when we ourselves do not comply, that is, when the People's Party itself did not comply with that law. It's a little crazy to ask others what we don't do, but it's that this drift of demise to the one who's leading the right leads us to these so rock-rock situations. You all know that the failure to transpose this requirement would entail a new fine for Spain, and I say a new fine because it is accumulating to others who are already on the table, derived from the incompetence of the previous Government to solve problems and the capacity of the previous Government to generate problems for this country. Ladies and gentlemen, in this royal decree-law there is no political debate possible, it is exhausted. There is no margin for the Spanish regulator. We simply have to comply with the directive and there is no more. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u82	Silence! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u83	Most political groups have seen this clearly, except for PP and Citizens. I take this opportunity to thank all the political groups that have supported the measures, the royal decree-laws and the legislative proposals that have been brought to this Parliament on energy and climate. I am grateful to Podemos and Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, precisely because we see that in energy and climate policies the differences between constitutionalists and independenceists are perhaps not so many and perhaps that is where we have to start solving the problems that Spain has, and I am grateful to all the others who have supported all the initiatives brought here during these months. But I say that in order to support - I look at that bench - we have to exceed the maximum that the right has now, and it is the maximum that the enemy or water, using that hateful war language that is being installed on the right. [[Addressing Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] [[Applauds]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, citizens who are listening to us, even if they assume that this country has to pay an invoice, the right-wing encroachment remains the same. Liberals of the People's Party, which is what you are now, right - before clearly you were not, but now it seems that we have the purest liberal PP, heir to Aznar and Aguirre - when you have to give your vote in favor of a real decree-law that guarantees competition in the energy sector, the electric and gas sector, you forget liberalism. I say this by looking here and there Liberalism is forgotten because they have a mission more important and more powerful than defending their own political ideas. [[Addressing the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] [[Addressing the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.- Greetings]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u84	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u85	The mission they have is to go against the socialist government and this president. That's your mission above all and above all. What is important to you is not politics, but to boycott permanently a government, the legitimate socialist government, which is complying with European law in this case and with the need of the citizens in the rest of the initiatives brought here. It doesn't matter if you agree on the bottom, because you agree on the bottom, but you've already lost track of what you're here for. The important thing is to overthrow the legitimate, I insist, legitimate Government, even if you bring in rules in which both Citizens and you would agree to vote, if not because you have that other more important mission. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u86	Wait a minute, Your Honor. Please, ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude my speech by urging you to defend our democratic institutions. It is our obligation and our responsibility. The degradation of the institutions is directly related to the inability to give them the value they deserve, and that is achieved only with respect, with respect to capitals, the respect that Giner de los Ríos promulgated, the respect that a left-wing member with rastas has shown, but that is shown here, the respect that Congresswoman Rosa Martínez has shown today by saying goodbye to this House. Because, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament does not value itself if it lies deliberately and with impunity in this atrium, if it insults its President of the Government blatantly and without blush, if your political adversary is considered an enemy and all his proposals are boycotted regardless of whether he agrees with them, if social unrest is used instead of political arguments to get to power. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, this Parliament is not valued if it renounces the dialogue in favour of chrispation. Perhaps, if you are not able to maintain that due respect, you are not up to those seats. Parliament and other democratic institutions need people who are capable of caring for and defending them. Think, please, and never forget that those who don't remember your story are doomed to repeat it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u88	Thank you very much. Mr Anaya has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u89	Thank you, President. We have heard the minister make a lit defense of Commissioner Arias Cañete. I'm not coming out of my astonishment, Minister. Your political group tried not to be a Commissioner, you tried to block that Commission, and here you come to defend Arias Cañete to try to find differences with us There are no such differences; be consistent, Minister. The Socialist Party spokesman says that we are fleeing Parliament, that we do not like Parliament. This is the decree number twenty-six that comes to be validated, twenty-six royal decrees to try to flee and escape permanently from the parliamentary control of this House, continuously. [[Applauds]] Well, they bring this royal decree without talking to the main group in this House, which is the People's Party, not a word. I like the Spaniards to know that we are talking here about the issues that are being debated, and that we are not trying to turn this house into a place for parliamentary or political activity or even to start the electoral campaign. This royal decree says that there are guidelines for energy policy that the Government sends to the National Commission on Markets and Competition. These guidelines mean that the Government tells the National Commission on Markets and Competition what to do about security of supply, economic sustainability, what to do about climate change, air quality, demand management. It is sent to the commission and if there are difficulties or discrepancies between the National Commission on Markets and Competition and the ministry there is a body that acts as coordinator, in which the government clearly has prevalence. This initiative therefore reduces the independence of the National Commission on Markets and Competition. Secondly, it is clear that a sort of management order is established for the ministry towards the National Commission on Markets and Competition. This must be the one that articulates the methodology, the values, the procedure after all, and the amount that we Spaniards pay on the electric bill, because transport and distribution mean 7.5 billion euros that we pay on the bill. Well, in principle it should have been the commission but, if I said earlier that it is not independent, who will then fix the tolls Who will say how much we have to pay for transportation and distribution Why do I have that suspicion I will explain it to you. In 2015, zero; transportation and distribution tolls were frozen, the PP ruled. Frozen in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019. The government is coming and, incidentally, we have a toll order for this year 2019 with a deficit of 400 million euros. It is therefore logical that this group should be used to manipulate the work of the National Commission on Markets and Competition to undermine the competitiveness of the Spanish economy and the well-being of the Spanish. Curiously, moreover, we find ourselves in this parliamentary initiative, in this law a very strange thing, and it is that those who decide on the €75 billion are not subject to any incompatibility regime. In other words, there is no regime of incompatibility in line with the law of high government officials, which seems to us to be very negative. We find ourselves with an initiative that we believe reduces competition, therefore reduces the competitiveness of the Spanish economy and seriously harms industrial growth. Why do I say this The contempt for the industry that this government is maintaining is already known: the closures of Alcoa, Vestas, Cemex, today we have known that 50% of Ferroatlantica is in an ERE. Why is this due to the continuing uncertainty this government is exerting over energy prices in our country. [[Rumors]] That's why this is happening.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u90	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u91	In the budgets that are not going to be developed today, an item came to reduce aid to the electro-intensive industry by 78 %, from 150 million to 32 million. They have never believed or believed in industry in Spain, I don't know what kind of country, what kind of economy they want to develop for the future of our country. I believe that you are faced with a sort of magical energy realism. First they politicize technologies: there are technologies of the left, of the right; then, when they have done that, they automatically transfer to others a political discourse in which economic efficiency does not count, no matter, gives the same. But reality has come: they come to the government. They decided to end the coal sector without wondering how we compensated the regions and how we made the price of electricity not go up. And, of course, they had to land. How did they land missing the truth? They said in their election program that all nuclear power plants, 20% of Spanish electricity consumption... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u92	Quiet, please. I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u93	... said in their election program and in the documents in which the minister worked prior to the election program that nuclear power stations closed at age 40. But they realized that it is impossible to meet the decarbonisation objectives, it is impossible to guarantee a competitive electricity price if that happened. That is why, after a secret meeting, of which we do not know minutes or documents, with the main electricity companies, of forty years, we have passed to forty-four or forty-eight. They have therefore already landed, but they have been late for that landing, because it has happened to them exactly the same with renewable energy. The PP was a non-renewable party, we didn't care about renewables, we were a party that didn't want renewable development, that said about us. Year 2016, 1000 megawatts in an auction. Year 2017, 8000 megawatts, 4000 photovoltaics and 4000 wind power, and those 8000 megawatts without receiving any public aid, therefore, lowering the price of electricity and activating, yes, a renewable development in our country. You arrived on June 1st and in six months no auctions. After two months of this year 2019 no auctions are foreseen. Who has that commitment to renewable energy, you or us [[Applauds]] The energy policy without figures, without rigour, without conforming to the basic trilemma required by energy, which is to ensure environmental sustainability and emission reduction, a competitive price for industries and families, and a supply guarantee twenty-four hours seven days a week, without these premises and without having the main party of this House, we cannot collaborate with that clearly bad and harmful energy policy for the economic development of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u94	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u95	We turn, ladies and gentlemen, to the agenda item on the request for a three-month extension of the deadline for carrying out the opinion of the Committee of Inquiry on the railway accident in Santiago on 24 July 2013. That request shall be put to the vote at the end of this meeting. In five minutes the votes will begin. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u96	We shall proceed to the vote. I remind you that there are telematic votes, I tell you to wait for the full count. Let us proceed to the vote on the amendments to the State General Budgets Bill for 2019. These amendments are put to a single joint vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 348 plus 2 telematics votes, 350; 191; 156 plus 2 telematics votes, 158; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u97	As a result, the refund amendments were approved, and the draft State General Budgets Act for 2019 was therefore rejected. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u98	We shall now proceed to the next vote. We now proceed to vote for the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 1/2019 of 11 January of urgent measures to bring the powers of the National Commission on Markets and Competition into line with the requirements arising from Community law in relation to Directives 2009/72 and 2009/73 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 July 2009 on common rules for the internal market in electricity and natural gas. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 348 plus 2 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 176 plus 2 telematics votes, 178; against, 1; abstentions, 171.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u99	It is therefore validated. It has been requested that the Royal Decree-Law be dealt with as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 348 plus 2 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 173 plus 1 telematics vote, 174; against, 175 plus 1 telematics vote, 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u100	It's rejected. It will therefore not be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-13-CD190213.u101	We submit to the plenary the request for an extension of three months to carry out the opinion of the Committee of Inquiry on the railway accident in Santiago on 24 July 2013. Can it be understood that it was approved by consent [[Consent]] Accordingly, the extension of the period granted to the Commission of Inquiry is hereby approved. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting rose. It was 12 and 50 minutes from noon.
