ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u1	The meeting was called to order. Ladies and gentlemen, we begin with the item on the debate on the whole of the State General Budgets Bill for 2019. First, for the introduction of the bill, the Minister of Finance has the floor on behalf of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u2	Thank you very much, President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all and everyone. I rise to this rostrum to ask the House to allow the handling of the General State Budgets for 2019, and I do so, ladies and gentlemen, because I believe that these public accounts reflect the priorities, objectives and guidelines that mark this government's performance and that in the case of these budgets they are expressed on a meridian basis: firstly, because the budget seeks to protect the economic growth of the country, to redirect towards more intelligent, inclusive and sustainable development. Secondly, because it strengthens social policies, the welfare state and redistributes wealth so that the benefits of this economic growth reach society as a whole... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u3	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u4	...and especially the middle class and the most vulnerable groups, those who have suffered the most during these years of crisis. Thirdly, because we continue to reduce the public deficit and public debt, thus fulfilling our commitment to our European partners and ensuring the stability and sustainability of the accounts in the present but especially in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, barely eight months ago a motion of censure against the government presided over by Mr Rajoy was held in this House as a result of the social upheaval that involved knowing the ruling of the Gürtel and the inability of the then president to assume the political responsibilities that the majority of this Parliament and of the Spanish and Spanish people demanded of him. We bet at that time on the establishment of a moderate, comprehensive, dialogueal, progressive Spain, which wants to conquer its future and does not want to return to the past. Ladies and gentlemen, in this government, in just eight months, we have done more for social justice, democratic regeneration and modernization of our economy than in the previous seven years, and we have drawn up and tabled general state budgets which we are voting on today in this whole debate. [[applause]] These are the budgets that we believe this country needs at this time of the economic cycle and which are objectively good for the citizens as a whole, live where they live. They are accounts that are committed to equal opportunities, better public services, recovery of rights that were stolen during the crisis, solid and sustainable growth that allows us to be more competitive and also social justice that redistributes that wealth. These are budgets, ladies and gentlemen, which try to provide solutions to people's daily problems: wages that do not arrive at the end of the month, the payment of the receipt of the light or the care of a family member who is waiting for the benefit of dependency. In other words, they are budgets designed on the basis of the needs and hopes of all citizens; hope for a better future so that our sons and daughters also have the capacity to develop their vital project, a more egalitarian society that fights the scourge of macho violence or a labour market that offers more decent jobs. That, ladies and gentlemen, is what these budgets are about, and that is what we need to discuss here and now. [[Applauds]] I will try to demonstrate to you with arguments and data why the groups in this House should allow their parliamentary processing and therefore reject the amendments to the whole that have been tabled although, ladies and gentlemen, everything indicates - by the declarations made - that independence will vote against good social budgets for Catalonia and the right against good social budgets for Spain. It is, ladies and gentlemen, those who vote together to reject the recovery of rights that citizens deserve. Is it not, ladies and gentlemen, that they live better in confrontation than in solutions? [[Applauds]] Therefore, before I go into the detail of the budgets, I will refer, if I may, to the intolerable escalation of the rift that has been generated in recent days in an absolutely irresponsible way by the People's Party, Citizens and also by the political formation with which they say they do not share ideas but to which they seem to want to invite or, what would be even worse, by which they are being dragged. You see, I would have liked this budget debate not to have taken place just this week when the trial began. I tell you with total sincerity, I believe that it has been able to influence the polarization of the different political positions, making it extremely difficult for the serious and reflective debate that is required with regard to the public accounts that this country needs. That being said, it is clear that justice as an independent power organizes its activity within the deadlines and the form it understands best. The judges and prosecutors of this country have an arduous task that we must recognize as a society and combat any interference in their independent work. But, you will see, over the past week it has been possible to hear, see and hear interpretations of all kinds about how the Government was facing the negotiation of budgets with the various parliamentary groups, particularly with regard to the amendments to the whole that both PDeCAT and the Republican Left of Catalonia announced. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that I have made this clear on numerous occasions, but I will say it again here today so that all the citizens of this country can be seen and reflected in the Journal of Sessions. This Government has offered all groups of the House a negotiation process that would allow for the first processing and its approval after the draft of the General State Budgets that are necessary and positive for this country. Thus, he has received contributions from some of these groups; some groups, such as Unite Podemos, have made a demanding contribution, in some dissenting but overall very positive measures to the current project. I appreciate the commitment and the shared effort. We've worked hard and we've worked well. [[Applauds]] Others, however, like PP or Citizens, have not been very interested in the least because they have been disconcerted from the interests of fellow citizens who only look as voters and not as what they are, women and men who deserve their institutions to help them to have a life a little better every day. And there is a third group, those declaring themselves independent, who had the dream that the Government would accept the unacceptable in exchange for its support. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been misled in half, because the obligation of a ruler is that things should go as best as possible and such as this is radically incompatible with asking for the impossible, such as that we adopt measures or attitudes that are outside our constitutional powers or that undermine the division of powers and fundamental principles and values of our constitutional system. And we have made it clear: this government is not going to give in to any blackmail on the part of anyone; this government is not going to admit under any circumstances that on any agenda there is the right of self-determination for Catalonia, we are not going to do so, as we have said over and over again, ladies and gentlemen of Esquerra and PDECAT. [[Applauds]] We cannot and do not want to, because such an approach would be harmful for all of Spain and especially for Catalonia. I think we've been transparent and loyal all this time. We have always been committed to political dialogue within the framework of our Constitution. That has always been our limit to dialogue. We have worked and continue to do so by laying all the bridges from politics, because it is our responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, and because it is what the vast majority of the citizens of this country want. But we have to make clear the negotiating perimeter: nothing outside our constitutional order, nothing against the independence of powers, nothing that undermines the coexistence between citizens. We have always defended the same thing, either in the Government or in the opposition. In fact, in his speech on the day of the investiture, President Sánchez began by speaking precisely about the first paragraph of article 1 of our Constitution, which refers to Spain as a social and democratic State governed by law that promotes freedom, justice, political pluralism and equality as higher values of the legal system. And today, as at the time, we claim the validity of our Constitution, of which just a couple of months ago in this House we had the opportunity to celebrate the 40th anniversary. Because, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the dialogue of the political forces, forty years ago we achieved the democracy and freedom that we so longed for and that we were able to enjoy during the previous decades. We have a Constitution that is the heritage of all Spaniards, also of those who expressed serious reparations to their title VIII and also of those who want a reform to better adapt it to the new times that Spain and the world are experiencing. Ladies and gentlemen, our constitutional text recognizes that we are a diverse country, that we are a plural country and therefore with a territorial and political structure that recognizes the autonomy of nationalities and regions for their self-government within the unity of Spain. Nationalities and regions, ladies and gentlemen, and it does not fail to draw attention to the fact that some people are revolting in their seats simply because they mention the literality of Article 2 of the Spanish Constitution, which enshrines the unity of our common homeland. And here we are, ladies and gentlemen, forty years later, reclaiming that spirit of consensus and agreement, of the value of the word, of the value of dialogue as a formula for progress as a society and also of the value of agreement, which is another guiding principle that must never be separated from a political leader. I often hear worthy representatives of this House speak with respect, I would say that even with devotion, President Adolfo Suárez, to whom so much democracy in Spain owes. He does not fail to draw attention to the fact that some of those who praise him at the same time display a political attitude that is in the antipodes of the ways and ways in which President Suárez played his role. Moreover, some of those who claim to have a model of behavior cast against who is today the president of the government the same cataract of insults, invectives and disqualifications that Adolfo Suárez suffered at the time. [[Applauds]] I will not repeat them, ladies and gentlemen, because it gives me a certain degree of modesty that they appear in the Journal of Sessions. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u5	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u6	But I understand that it is also regrettable that some political formations intend to erect themselves as the owners of the constitutional text. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u7	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u8	No, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution belongs to the citizens of this country, it is not a private property of any of you and you have no right to handle it or use it as a bold weapon, trying to generate confrontation and division. Ladies and gentlemen, there are positions that are not directly supported. Accusing an elected Government with illegitimacy through an impeccably constitutional process, such as the motion of censure, is an attack on the Constitution. [[Applauds]] And there are groups in this House that have been doing it since day one. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to responsibility. Everyone here should try to do a measurement exercise because our country is at a crossroads. It has been in this, ladies and gentlemen, too long, among other things, as a result of the inaction of the former Executive of the People's Party, which did not know how to deal with the territorial tensions and the rise of independence in Catalonia; on the contrary, ladies and gentlemen, the former Executive preferred to hide his head, as an ostrich who did not want to see the problem, and allowed it to grow in intensity and gravity, when it did not aggravate those gatherings of signatures throughout Spain, which only years later Vice President Sáenz of Santamaría recognized as a serious error. It is enough to remember that when Mariano Rajoy's government started its course in 2011, there were 11 % of independenceists in Catalonia and that when he was forced to leave Moncloa, in 2018, the percentage had risen to 47 %. The data, ladies and gentlemen, are expressive. [[Rumors.-Mr. Hernando Fraile utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u9	Quiet. Mr. Hernando!
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u10	It is clear that there is a conflict and that something does not work when half of Catalonia's citizens aspire to independence. In view of this fact, a responsible Government must set itself the objective of trying to reverse this situation, of seeking measures to reduce tension and rebuild bridges before they end up dynamizing. And that's what we've been trying to do honestly, transparently, and I'm also telling you that's what we're going to continue to do. Because, beyond ideological differences, I think we can agree that the vast majority of Spaniards want to reduce the enormous social and political rift and that a peaceful and dialogueable solution should be found. [[Applauds]] However, since our arrival in the government, we have been accused of traitors, of disloyalties, of yielding to blackmail and of breaking Spain; all because we have not followed the ostrich tactic, but have tried to address the conflict in Catalonia through dialogue and politics, always within the scrupulous framework of the law and our Constitution. Thus, we have built bridges for dialogue in the bilateral commission, which we rescued from ostracism, where we sat down Central Government and Generalitat to solve problems - ladies and gentlemen, you will recognize - that have been engulfed for many years. We have also proposed that dialogue should take place in the Commission here, in the Congress of Deputies, and in a parliamentary table, where the political parties - which are, in short, the active subjects of our country's vertebration, and as the Constitution recognizes - could talk and move forward in a democratic response - I insist - always within the framework of the legal channels that we have provided ourselves with. We have acted responsibly because we are firmly convinced that the majority of citizens, both inside and outside Catalonia, want and want a solution to this situation that is long too long. Unfortunately, we have not found the support of some opposition groups, the People's Party and citizens. You have preferred to carry out a campaign of harassment and overthrow of the Government rather than exercise political responsibility and loyalty with the State, with Spain. [[Applauds]] And what your record of service with regard to the secessionist challenge, ladies and gentlemen, is not that it is marked by success, precisely. Some think that punishing Catalonia, nullifying its autonomy and disregarding its symbols and feelings is the way to a more united and stronger Spain. But they are wrong, and we should learn from our history: Spain was never more unequal than when uniformity was imposed in disregard of diversity, which is one of the great riches of our country. We are responsible and consistent with our idea of a State, which is precisely defined in Title VIII of the Constitution; a State of self-government with broad competence in public services essential for citizenship, which guarantees the principle of solidarity between territories and the equality of rights and obligations. And I say, ladies and gentlemen, that we are consistent because what some have striven to disguise as an assignment to independence is nothing more than the application of what our State means of autonomy, that is, respect for political autonomy, respect for the capacity for self-government and institutional loyalty; ladies and gentlemen, no more or less, because there is no small letter in these General Budgets of the State that seeks to content independence or further favour one autonomous community against another. That, ladies and gentlemen, is a fallacy; it is simply a lie. In this budget there is absolutely nothing that Catalonia receives that cannot be approved, for example, to the treatment that Andalusia or Extremadura receive. What we do is we provide more resources to all the autonomous communities and we offer solutions to peremptory issues for all of them, such as, for example, fixing the mismatch arising from the application of VAT information, a system that was changed with lightness and nightliness. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, it was a system that required the autonomous communities to return EUR 25 billion this year that they could not use in health, education or dependency. Therefore, just as we proposed that the autonomous communities could have a greater margin of deficit with the new path, which continues to be blocked in this House by the schemes of PP and Citizens, we also committed ourselves with them to correct what had been unfair. Ladies and gentlemen, in amending the Stability Act there are already twelve deadlines for increasing the period of amendments, and I think it is clear who is working to advance and secure resources for the autonomous communities and who is working to torpedo and also to block. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to stop overacting and recover some measure and sanity. Stop encouraging discourses in which the identity of the autonomous communities is not built by itself, but rather in the face of aggravation with others. Stop building insurmountable walls, bring some constructive solution instead of living out the conflict and taking advantage of it at the cost of making it worse. Because, ladies and gentlemen, how far are you willing to go to wear this government down? Some, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, are competing to light the wick of a dustbin regardless of the consequences for a normal and peaceful coexistence; we have seen it very clearly this weekend. I sincerely believe that they have crossed all the red lines and have become a harmful opposition for the country, destructive, retrograde and opportunistic, which only sees the straw in the eye of others and does not see it in itself. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u11	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u12	That, some. Others, on the other hand, claim that we are debating self-determination, that we are influencing justice, or that we are ignoring the laws knowing that all these issues are not acceptable to this government or to the party that supports it, the Socialist Party. Neither the behaviors of one another nor the behaviors of the other; both believe to take vows out of confrontation, without seeming to matter to them the destructions they can accomplish. That is why I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to leave the electoral calculator at once. Citizens want political solutions to them and, above all, there are many citizens who are sick of national politics turning to this issue alone and exclusively and who do not talk about their everyday problems. They rightly wonder when we will deal with the politicians of their pensions, the difficulties in arriving at the end of the month or in finding a home at a reasonable price. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is the answers that these budgets contain, they are the answers that citizens ask of us. Because with this we defend the dignity of our pensioners, of the long-term unemployed, of the people who, even having a job, cannot reach the end of the month. This provides more opportunities for young people looking for a better future or for those who suffer from rising rental prices. Because with this budget we increase the endowment of the system of care for dependency or of scholarships and books for students; with it we fight for a more just society, a more egalitarian society, in which we have more resources to combat the scourge of macho violence or in which we are able to lift thousands of children out of poverty. A budget, ladies and gentlemen, necessary to reorient our productive model and lead it towards stronger and more sustainable economic growth that allows economic recovery to reach families, middle classes and working classes and that our small and medium-sized enterprises can continue to grow. In fact, these budgets represent an amendment to the entire social, economic and budgetary policy that this country has had in recent years. People's Party policies that have been proven wrong because they aggravated the hardness and impact of the crisis, increased inequality, precariousness and poverty. Policies that were also unfair, because they carried all the weight of the effort in the middle and working classes, because they reduced the welfare state - no more or less than the cushioning mattress that citizens have in the face of difficulties - and caused the rise of taxes on more than sixty occasions. [[applause]] And above all - and I think it is most important - useless policies, because they really missed the favourable tail winds to drive a real change in the productive model, a change that would steer our economy towards competitive sectors based on innovation and knowledge. Under that false appearance of better managers - which I do not know, ladies and gentlemen, who buys it - the People's Party government systematically failed... [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u13	Quiet, please. Go on, minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u14	... the fiscal consolidation commitments, to the point of having to renegotiate the deficit path three times and also expose the country to a millionaire fine. Ladies and gentlemen, when Spain complied with Brussels, it was only thanks to the enormous effort of autonomous communities and municipalities. With the governments of the People's Party, the General Administration of the State never met the deficit targets. [[Applauds]] In fact, with the excuse of the crisis, the PP implemented austerity to the extreme as an ideological tool to weaken public services and promote their privatization, which is really what is behind that road map. Rights, freedoms were cut, and the re-centralization of the State of self-government was deployed through legislation. During the years of the People's Party Government, citizens were turned away and more rift and disaffection was generated towards politics than ever before, with unfortunate cases of corruption that directly involved the People's Party, according to the ruling of the justice system, calling on the whole of society and ultimately motivating the motion of censure, in May, which gave rise to this Government. [[Applauds]] Since then, we have been working on a clear road map: to articulate basic consensus among parliamentary groups to give stability to the institutions, to dignify our democracy, and to address the many, many social, environmental and territorial emergencies. That is the origin of this Government; do not forget, ladies and gentlemen, because it was your vote that allowed a window of hope and illusion to be opened in our country. We knew that it was not an easy path, and the composition of the parliamentary arch did not facilitate - quite the contrary - this situation was difficult, and we knew that it would require new ways of building political action. We also knew that the losers of the motion of censure were not going to digest it and that they were going to try to stop any possible progress so that the people of this country did not see that there was another way of doing politics, really putting people at the centre of the proceedings. And this is what we should worry about and deal with today in this House, to whom we have the immense responsibility to serve this country; the daily problems of the people, ladies and gentlemen; that is what we need to talk about, their hopes and their illusions. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to go into macroeconomic figures, because I think they are well known. [[Rumors]] Only...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u15	Silence, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u16	... Only... If you want, then we enter, ladies and gentlemen; in the replica and in the duplicate we can enter into whatever you want. [[Rumors]] I will only remind you that our country's growth rate is still robust, despite the moderation that is being experienced at the international level, and that it is in fact above the countries in our environment, as all international bodies have seen - and more recently. That, ladies and gentlemen, guarantees an increase in public revenue, fiscal consolidation and job creation at a good rate. The growth forecast we manage is prudent, 2.2%. And by the way, I would like to highlight two recent data. The Spanish economy accelerated in the fourth quarter of last year by 0.7% while in the rest of Europe it barely grew. This is a good time. The European Commission's winter forecasts - which we just met, as I said last week - also abound in improving the growth differential for Spain, down by one tenth - to 2.1% - to Spain and six tenths to the euro area. Hence the robustness of our growth. It is a fact, ladies and gentlemen, that those who struggle every day of the year to transfer a distorted image of our country's march are beaten. On the other hand, they are well aware of the situation we are in with regard to the path of stability, because there has been an opportunity to discuss this situation in depth, but I cannot forget that the implementation of an objective of 1.3 against 1.8 - which we considered to be more reasonable from the government - logically entails costs in terms of economic growth and job creation, as we have been warning from the outset. And it is the incomprehensible closure - which no one can explain - of the popular and citizen parliamentary groups that brings us to this stage. However, our unemployment rate forecast is at 14%, the lowest level since 2008, while public debt will be reduced in 2019 in relation to the forecast for this year which has closed, from 96.9% to 95.4%. This budget, ladies and gentlemen, reduces public debt. This will enable us to strengthen the confidence of our economy and to release resources that can be allocated to other items. In particular in 2019 we will pay 0.5% less for debt interest. The non-financial spending ceiling increases by 4.4% to 125,064 million, a significant increase that is based on improving tax collection - the effect of the economic cycle - and also on the tax measures that this government is pushing. I would tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that these budgets represent an amendment to the whole of the wrong policies carried out by the People's Party, and they are a necessary turning point, a change of direction to restore the confidence of citizens in the usefulness of politics to solve their daily problems. And we do so, ladies and gentlemen, with concrete measures that promote cohesion, social justice, the redistribution of social wealth and the modernisation of our economy, all of which also fulfil our European commitments to stability and the sustainability of accounts. Because I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that in a scenario of constant policies - that is, if these budgets did not move forward - the deficit target would remain at 2.2 or 2.4 instead of the figure we are proposing. These budgets, on the other hand, contain an appropriate combination of revenue and expenditure to reorient the growth model, and to this end we reinforce essential spending lines that encourage the productivity and potential growth of our economy, such as investment, research, development and innovation, infrastructure and human capital. Because our goal is that economic growth is not based solely on the use of favourable tail winds or internal devaluation; that is what has happened during the years of administration of the People's Party. We believe that this growth must respond to a model based on the improvement of this competitiveness, through innovation, technological advances, the improvement of the skills of the workforce, and with particular attention to the support and effort of small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed people. Because, ladies and gentlemen, in this globalised world, investment in R & D+i is essential to gain competitiveness and to create products and services that have added value, as well as to be able to produce more skilled jobs. Because the competitiveness of a country, ladies and gentlemen, as I say, cannot really be at the expense of the dignity of the workers. [[Applauds]] It is essential, fundamental, that the employment that is generated be of quality, ladies and gentlemen, that it be dignified and, moreover, that it be on an equal footing between men and women. With these budgets, we are betting on this knowledge-based economy, on the intelligent ecological transition or on ensuring the sustainability of economic growth. And I think we can all share that we have to move towards a circular and decarbonised economy, towards a more sustainable and respectful development of the planet, because it is not only an element of intergenerational solidarity - or much less - this represents the main vector of modernization of the global economy in this first half of the century. [[Applauds]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, what you do not want to see is because you have no vision of the future, and you have many opportunities in terms of job creation, in terms of improving our health and also in terms of progress in technological development. These budgets represent a first step in this line that we want to develop - already known in the last few days - in a more complete way with the Agenda of Change, which my partner presented last Friday. I believe that if you have had the opportunity to analyse it even though you have been very entertained in other tasks - you will have seen an ambitious road map to modernise our country, to respond to the many challenges we face, both from the point of view of education and the reinforcement of human capital, the technological revolution or climate change. It is, ladies and gentlemen, our country project that this Executive is constantly fighting for every day; it is a transformative agenda, through a proactive economic policy, that puts all the resources available to advance in a cohesive, just and environmentally sustainable way. In short, ladies and gentlemen, they are accounts that allow us to close the many wounds that occurred during the crisis. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the management that was done from the People's Party of the crisis was the attempt to dismantle the welfare state or job insecurity as an internal devaluation formula, and that, ladies and gentlemen, has managed to weaken the middle class by causing a displacement to lower-income social groups, or otherwise, an important part of the middle class of this country has dropped a step down and the measures that acted as a social lift have been eroded. That is why these accounts also have the unequivocal vocation of reactivating this social lift, increasing social spending - yes, ladies and gentlemen -, of course, which guarantees the welfare state and enables equality among all Spaniards. And we will do so with the support of a fiscal policy that will prolong the loss of progressiveness that occurred during the governments of the People's Party, so that everyone pays according to their income and we all receive according to our needs. This, of what you are scandalized, ladies and gentlemen, is called redistribution of wealth, it is called social justice. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this budget has been drawn up with the aim of correcting many of the inequalities that occur at different levels of society, because probably the first is the social gap, for which we all have to recover the social pact that built us as a country and made us a better society, but we also have to bridge the generational gap and the gender gap. We must move towards a more equal and equitable country, a country in which we all belong, where there are opportunities for all. He told them that the policies applied during the crisis have pursued and managed to break the social contract that had placed us as a society to allow the improvement of our children, and to that of those who comply with the rules, progress, or that when one dedicates effort one obtains tranquility and stability in life. These budgets are the antipodes of those neoliberal policies that were practiced during the crisis, ladies and gentlemen, so I understand that they do not like them. They recover values of society, of collectivity, protect the most vulnerable groups and bet on the middle classes. Ladies and gentlemen, a strong and robust middle class is the basis of social stability and economic progress. A more socially balanced country is essential for stronger growth, because it benefits both domestic demand and productivity. This is why these budgets include a whole series of measures aimed at promoting and recovering this middle class, firstly by protecting it fiscally, and secondly in the form of an important release of income available for the improvement of public services. Ladies and gentlemen, 57.3% of the budgets are spent on social expenditure, with the highest growth since 2009. To be fair, ladies and gentlemen, we would have to talk about social investment, because improving people's lives can never be interpreted as a spending policy, no matter how much some have a genuine allergy to social spending. I am talking to you about EUR 209 510 million, which means an increase of 6.4% over the previous year, or what is the same, an additional EUR 12 599 million, 6 out of 10 euros in the budget. That is what this government is going to do for social investment. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u17	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u18	The accounts we want to validate represent an indirect average income of 4174 euros for each citizen - you multiply by the members of a family unit -, a income released that allows them to meet their needs or improve their quality of life. This amount of indirect income in the form of the provision of public services amounts to EUR 5148 if account is also taken of the public services provided by the autonomous communities, by transfers from the State. The important thing, ladies and gentlemen, is that this income that is indirectly released touches each and every citizen's pocket; there is none that, because of the money he has in the bank, because of birth or place of origin, does not have the right to receive these essential public services for his well-being. [[Applauds]] We are talking about an increase in pensions of 1.6%, which will be 3% in the case of minimum and non-contributory pensions. We are also going to improve the income of 9.5 million pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen, do not these citizens deserve that we can today meet their needs and expectations? We are talking about widow's pensions, which are going to be calculated with 60% of the regulatory base, which will allow widows - because this group is female - to have an increased pension of around 7%. Ladies and gentlemen, the budgets reflect the commitment that if the CPI is higher than this there will be an extraordinary pay, so that we will ensure that pensions increase in the face of fluctuations in the cost of living. We refer to the nearly seven million people who do not have to cope with the co-payment of medicines, especially pensioners with incomes below 11,200 euros per year or families... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u19	Wait a minute, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you all to remain silent. The murmuring there can take a minute, but not all the time we've had. Please, I beg your silence. Go on, minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u20	Thank you, President. He said that the co-payment of medicines for pensioners is abolished and that we also extend it to families who enter less than EUR 12,300 per year and have at least one child in charge. The expenditure on dependence, ladies and gentlemen, that great forgotten of the People's Party, rises by 831 million to EUR 2232 million, an increase of 60% of the expenditure on dependence. Never before have budgets devoted so much effort to caring for those who need it the most. [[Applauds]] We are talking about the benefit that the Government wants to recover for the unemployed over fifty-two years old, one of the most difficult groups to reintegrate into the labour market, and we estimate, ladies and gentlemen, that only this measure will benefit 114 000 people. We are also talking in these budgets about a 10% increase in the amount of grants, reaching EUR 1620 million, or about doubling the aid so that families with fewer resources can buy their children's textbooks, which go from EUR 50 million to EUR 100 million. They are all measures as you will see that they allow you to have a budget mattress for the domestic economies, so that families can devote resources to the development of their vital project, to strengthen the languages of their children or to enjoy an afternoon of culture. And as redistribution also comes through revenue, the General State Budgets for 2019 provide for measures to recover the progressivity we have lost in recent years, and for higher incomes to contribute more equitably. We are talking about those who pay more than EUR 130 000 to see their contribution to the IRPF increased by 2 percentage points, while those who pay more than EUR 300 000 will see their contribution increased by 4 percentage points. Do you know a fact, ladies and gentlemen? The changes in the IRPF do not affect 99,5 % of taxpayers, so that we fulfil the premise of achieving a redistributive and fair tax model, where those who have the most capacity contribute more so that we can all receive according to our need; a reform of the IRPF that affects only 0.5% of all taxpayers. But perhaps the best increase in people's incomes will come through the dignification of wages, which comes from the rise of the inter-professional minimum wage, reaching 900 euros gross monthly, 22.3%, the largest increase in forty years that has suffered the inter-professional minimum wage. It is an increase, ladies and gentlemen, which will benefit two and a half million workers and will have a budgetary impact of 340 million on the state's coffers. Do the workers of this country deserve to arrive at the end of the month, ladies and gentlemen? Do you deserve the sweat, the effort you are making to pay off in an appropriate way, or do you continue to commit yourself to the precariousness of work? [[Applauds]] And it is that, ladies and gentlemen, a rich country cannot and must not have poor workers, people who cannot develop their vital project or improve their expectations. That is why it was necessary to regain the burden of wages on GDP that was before the crisis as one of the ways that led us to correct the flagrant inequality. Because, you know, ladies and gentlemen, what was the weight of wages on GDP in 2009? 51.91% of gross national income. Do you know how much the previous Government left it after it passed through the Government? In 47,18 %. That was their reform, ladies and gentlemen: devalue workers' salaries and make a labor reform so that they would have fewer weapons to defend their rights. Those who claim that the rise in the interprofessional minimum wage can cause serious damage to the economy are in a position to look at the countries in our environment. You will see that Germany has for the first time, in 2015, a minimum wage of EUR 1498 gross per month, as a post-crisis measure, or that the French Government has recently announced an increase in the wage up to EUR 1486, and under no circumstances have I heard any opposition party in those countries talk about the collapse of the economy by the introduction of an increase in the inter-professional minimum wage, on the contrary. We firmly believe that the rise has added advantages, because it will benefit vulnerable people, because it will stimulate consumption and reduce the gender pay gap, and because it will contribute to the maintenance of the pension system. By the way, I remind you that the Socialist Government left the pension fund in 2011 at 66,815 million and found it at less than 10 billion. [[Applauds]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is urgent to work to ensure that our pension system is sustainable. In this regard, regardless of what is being marked in the Toledo Pact, where I hope that agreements can be reached as soon as possible, these budgets increase the transfers of the State to social security by 4 per cent, up to 15,484 million, and we enable a transfer to social security, in support of its sustainability, of 850 million. Ladies and gentlemen, the generational gap to which I referred is another of the inequalities to be corrected by this budget and also by our policies, because there is a whole generation of boys and girls who have only known the crisis and its effects. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we can all share in this House that this is a drama without palliatives for a society that is considered advanced. That is why we have for the first time incorporated a specific report on the impact of the various spending programmes on children within the framework of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. The public authorities, and I would also say that the whole of society, have an obligation to protect the children of our country, and to plan measures to help combat situations of poverty, social exclusion, food shortages or school drop-outs. We have thus incorporated measures specifically aimed at the most vulnerable group of minors. Indeed, the budget contains a new vital minimum income to combat child poverty. We have calculated, ladies and gentlemen, that this measure will enable 82,000 children to emerge from severe poverty. That is the only reason why this budget would be worth it. [[Applauds]] It will allow more support for school eaters and families at risk of social exclusion, policies for unaccompanied foreign minors or the doubling of support for school materials. We also need to be able to build a country that offers illusion and hope to our young people, a generation, ladies and gentlemen, with which the precariousness has been more intense than in other collectives, and which has forced many citizens to leave Spain to find better opportunities. For them and with them we want to develop a housing policy that promotes rent at affordable prices, through a plan - 20,000 homes - with 137 million, or a youth employment shock plan, with 670 million euros, which aims to reduce the unemployment rate in this group to 23.5 %. Likewise, ladies and gentlemen, we have increased the number of scholarships by 10%, while we have lowered university fees, which will be able to return to levels before the increases in 2012. Ladies and gentlemen, with this last issue of autonomous competition, what we are doing in this budget is enabling regional governments to carry out this measure. I was talking to them about the generational gap, but we also need to talk today about the social gap. For political decency, this social gap must be reduced urgently, and for justice, work must also be done to narrow that gender gap, which still hinders women's professional and personal development. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a cry from women; 50% of the population are increasingly aware of the difficulties we face today. We know how motherhood penalizes us in our professional development; how we have more difficulty accessing leadership positions or how we charge less for the same work; how macho violence is a reality that strikes us every day, without knowing, ladies, age or origin. That is why these budgets contain measures that are violet in political action, because there are many measures that are aimed precisely at the causes of this situation. Perhaps one of the most important is the progressive approval of maternity and paternity leave, which will pass from five to eight weeks of parental leave, as a precondition for achieving full equality in subsequent years. [[Applauds]] And this measure, ladies and gentlemen, is far-reaching, a measure that will allow us not to penalise the inclusion of women in the labour market. But since this glass ceiling still limits women's access to management committees, to the organizational bodies of companies, we are going to introduce a deduction in the company tax for those who incorporate women into their board of directors. And also, in this same section of taxation, we will lower VAT for the products of female intimate hygiene, as we committed ourselves over the previous months, until we equate them with goods of primary need, thus eradicating, ladies and gentlemen, another flagrant inequality. [[Applauds]] We will move forward in reconciliation policies for parents, promoting universalization of school by 0-3 years. And, ladies and gentlemen, as we continue to wake up with horrendous news of murdered women, of abused women, as this reality still shakes us daily and remains so much to work, we have raised resources to 220 million euros to combat gender-based violence. [[Applauds]] Never, ladies and gentlemen, had so many resources been devoted to ending this scourge; it is a priority for this Government. Ladies and gentlemen, I was talking to you about the indirect income that these budgets entail for people, but it is that these budgets for 2019 will transfer directly or indirectly throughout the year EUR 13 billion to businesses, entrepreneurs, self-employed, entrepreneurs, in the form of transfers, specific services or investment in R & D+i. On the one hand, it is about promoting the economic dynamics that will enable this economic growth that we are looking for, and also measures to support SMEs that, as you know, constitute our base of productive fabric. On the other hand, as I said before, we have to lay the foundations for the reorientation of the productive model to gain competitiveness through innovation, research or smart specialization, or the consumption of alternative energies. We bet on that economy that described them, digital, decarbonized, able to adapt to the global challenges, that generates skilled employment and that also helps to improve our export bases. Don't hesitate: our main goal as a government is to combat unemployment and create conditions for stable employment and quality employment. This has included a bonus for indefinite contracts for unemployed persons. Overall, recruitment bonuses are provided with 1885 million and are designed to extend working life and promote the creation of employment in groups with greater difficulty in accessing the labour market: persons with disabilities, persons at risk of social exclusion, over 45 years of age, victims of gender-based violence or young people who are beneficiaries of the youth guarantee. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about more than eight hundred thousand people who are potential beneficiaries of this job creation aid. But in addition, active employment policies amount to almost EUR 6 billion, growing by 4.7% over the previous year. And if SMEs acquire muscle they will be able to generate employment and be of higher quality. This is why the support programme for small and medium-sized enterprises will have resources of EUR 145 million in these budgets. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, SMEs' support for financing will be improved, they will be helped in the search for new markets abroad, and also in obtaining guarantees through various public tools. And unlike some political formations, I insist that these budgets protect small and medium-sized enterprises fiscally, because we have introduced - which you do not talk about - a reduction in corporate tax for those who charge less than EUR 1 million. That is to say, ladies and gentlemen, one in four companies in this country will have a tax reduction of 2 points in corporate tax. With this we are betting that the SME sector gains muscle and has potential for growth, as the decline of the type will improve the treasury, liquidity and investment possibilities. Another section in which I would like to dwell is that which refers to this change in the productive model. In these budgets, ladies and gentlemen, we are beginning to take the first steps towards this transformation with other tools, with other instruments that the Government has presented and will be presenting over the next few weeks and that is why we include a heading of 357 million in civil R & D+i. In particular, the appropriations from the non-financial budget for civil research amount to EUR 2845 million, which will increase research in our country by 8%. We also lay the foundations for an ecological transition from our economy that creates new opportunities for development, for example in renewable energy, in rehabilitation, in energy efficiency or in sustainable mobility. In this respect, as a novelty, the Ministry for the Ecological Transition foresees a contribution to the ICO for a value of 60 million euros that are allocated to loans for precisely the aid for energy efficiency, or to the Institute of Diversification and Energy Saving, which is endowed with 300 million to promote renewable energy and also the efficiency in the use of energy. We are increasing the so-called Carbon Fund from 12 to 32 million to reorient economic activity towards low-carbon models, while contributing to the achievement of international emission reduction targets and providing funds for the economic recovery of this transitional area and aid for business restructuring. That, without prejudice to the provision for the thermal social bond, which is set at EUR 80 million and is intended for the most vulnerable. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, there are many issues that cannot be detailed one by one because of time, although I have no problem in deepening any of those that you wish at some point in the debate: for example, our commitment to increase the share of culture in the budgets by almost 10% more, reaching up to 953 million. In all the budgets of the previous governments of the People's Party, investment in culture never reached this figure. Or bail, with an increase of 500 places for judges and prosecutors. Or the internal policies, with a plan to modernize the barracks or detention centres and with a 5.5% increase in public security policies, which are also a right in this country. The same could be said of the 6% increase in foreign policy or cooperation, which has to promote development that is also compatible with the measures we are putting in place in those countries with the worst chances. There is also support for the sustainable rural environment, with 1239 million to combat depopulation and the causes that are causing this situation. It also includes - albeit to some people - the allocation for the General Directorate for Historical Memory of 15 million euros, with the aim of promoting measures of reparation to the victims of Francoism. [[Applauds]] By the way, Mr. Casado, what a shame that a senator from your party has said that money will be used to dig up some bones. [[Rumors]] What disrespect, ladies and gentlemen! [[Applauds]] If you have not been informed, I ask you to do so; only the good news will pass you, but you should disallow that senator and ask for forgiveness, although seeing the drift you carry you are not sure that you do. [[A honourable Member: What a barbarity!]] For barbarity, what was said, Your Honor. These budgets incorporate measures to compensate public employees for so many years of effort during the crisis as it was they and they who, with their commitment, have made it possible to maintain basic public services.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u21	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u22	We have a general increase in remuneration of 2.25% plus a variable supplement resulting from the increase in GDP and we will continue with the wage matching of police and civilian guards, generating job offers resulting from the application of the replacement rate. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now talk to you about the infrastructure chapter. We have made an important effort to reverse the fall in public investment that has taken place in recent years, increasing the security of our networks and promoting the mobility of people and goods to help improve our competitiveness. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u23	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u24	This year's General Budgets devote 9973 million real investment, growing by more than 2 billion, an increase of 20.6%, a rise six times higher than the nominal growth of the economy that will allow us to recover much of the land lost in recent years as a result of the austerity policy of the PP government, which renounced investment as an economic policy instrument. And as an added effect, I would point out to you that our forecast is that, thanks to this investment, some 200 000 jobs can be created between direct and indirect. We have placed the emphasis on the conventional and close rail network, which are the ones that actually geographically spill our regions, those that lead us to university, to work or to hospital. A major investment was needed in this network, although it does not mean much less that we have forgotten about the high speed in the north-northwest corridor, in the Mediterranean corridor, in the Andalusian corridor, in the Extremadura corridor or in the Mediterranean-Cantabrian corridor. And we will also improve the lives of Spaniards with good roads to help reduce mortality rates, with an investment of 2329 million euros. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not miss in this debate - in this one that is produced every year - the information that is generated regarding the territorialization of the investments and trends of each autonomous community, because investments are measured on the previous year without attending to whether the projects have been completed or if it is unnecessary to start others in some territory, and therefore constantly insisting on the need to reject those debates that seek only the confrontation of the territory without taking into account the circumstances. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, I can tell you that public investment as a whole, including the state and also the corporate and foundational public administrative sector, will reach 16,947 million, 14.6% more. I must tell you that, in our mind, it has been an attempt to comply with the autonomous statutes contained in the relevant provisions, because I told them at the beginning of my intervention that the State of Autonomy is a model of success that has led to the further development of the history of Spain. The autonomous communities, which are also States, have played a fundamental role in shaping and deploying the welfare State, they are the ones that assume the weight of basic services such as education, health or social services. For this reason, it is no coincidence that at the beginning of the crisis an attempt was made to shift the idea that the autonomous communities were inefficient or wasteful administrations. What was behind, ladies and gentlemen, in an ideological attempt to weaken the welfare state. That is why the will of this Government since the first day has been to improve the financing of the autonomous communities, and this is reflected in the work to advance the new funding model after the years of paralysis of the People's Party and is also seen in other measures that favor the exit to the markets of those communities that already meet these requirements. But also this bet is shown in the budgets: in particular, the financing of territorial administrations, communities and municipalities is increased by 6.4%, reaching 120 899 million euros. And I would like to point out that the update of the deliveries on account that the communities receive this year will be 25 billion more than those delivered to the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council last July. In total, ladies and gentlemen, we need to review these deliveries on account including other variables such as settlement forecast, planned financing or VAT information system arrangements. This represents 6673 million more than in 2018, 6673 million for health, education, dependency, housing policies, infrastructure policies or any policy developed by the autonomous communities. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, at this point I have to remind you that there could have been an additional 25 billion if PP and Citizens had not vetoed the stability path proposed by this government. [[Applauds]] I do not think it is a luxury to try to provide resources at a territorial level that is clearly underfunded. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have to tell you that the government's commitment to reverse the effects of VAT is because we have a commitment to the autonomous communities so that they are not forced to withdraw EUR 5 billion from their public accounts. They will understand that if they have to remove EUR 5 billion from their budgets it would be impossible to build an advanced welfare state. For its part, the resources of local entities will reach 19,329 million, which is 7.6% more than in 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, I have pointed out the tax measures that have been designed to build a fairer and more redistributive tax system and I have to say that the tax system is the basis of the social state. Without sufficient public revenue, it is not possible to maintain a robust social state that guarantees equal opportunities and social cohesion. I think you are well aware of the measures and, if you want, I will stop at that point in the reply that you think you need more detail. I have referred to the changes in the IRPF and will transfer to you that in the company tax what is intended is to correct the inequity with which it was operated in the case of large corporations vis-à-vis the small company. Thus, those charging more than EUR 20 million will have a minimum corporate tax rate of 15% on the taxable basis, with the aim of ensuring that this fair taxation is effective in this type of tax. In the case of credit institutions and those engaged in the exploitation of hydrocarbons, the tax rate shall be 18 %. Both measures affect only 0.7 % of companies. In other words, 99,3 % of companies taxing companies will not have a tax increase, on the contrary, 25 % will see their tax pressure reduced by 2 points in SMEs. Therefore, although some political formations point this out, there will be no impact on small or medium-sized enterprises. I repeat: none; on the contrary, a fall of the actual rate for small and medium-sized enterprises is envisaged. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we will have to work and try to ensure that these 400 000 companies benefiting from the corporate tax reduction can reinvest that money in investments that will allow them to expand their business. In the case of VAT, in addition to reducing female products, there will also be reductions in veterinary products, from 21 % to 10 %, and in e-books and newspapers, it will be reduced to 4 %. And we will continue to work on green taxation as a measure to leave a better world to future generations, to which we will contribute by reducing the current diesel bonus against gasoline. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u25	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u26	Part of this collection will be devoted to sustainable mobility programmes, in addition to the renovation of the car fleet and also to the companies that have to carry out this transition model. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u27	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u28	And we have said this on many occasions: this measure is not collection-oriented, but rather aims to preserve the environment and health, as the European Union and the OECD claim. And they know that other tax figures, financial transactions and certain digital services are also being processed in this Congress. In short, we need to adapt our fiscal framework to the challenges of the twenty-first century, which have to do with the globalization of the economy, digitization, climate change or increasing inequalities. We are also going to push forward a new law against tax fraud in addition to changing the supply system, as I told you, of VAT information. We will apply a special tax of 15% on the undistributed profits of the Companies or improve the control of Sicav by the Tax Agency. All this battery of tax measures, together with the evolution of the economy, will allow a tax revenue increase in 2019 of 9.5% to reach 227 356 million. Ladies and gentlemen, if the effect of the change in the system of immediate VAT information is to be reduced, the growth will be 7.3%, which is in line with the tax revenues foreseen by the People's Party in the previous budget and which Citizens supported. It did so with a fundamental difference: while the PP raised this figure by lowering taxes as a demand for pre-election maneuvers, these budgets contemplate some rise to high incomes, the creation of two new taxes and the impact of growth on forecasting. What is more realistic, ladies and gentlemen, is this rise that this government is proposing or that you were doing, when you also had a lower taxation? [[Applauds]] That is why we are convinced that this is a rigorous, coherent, prudent forecast that gives sufficient scope to ensure its implementation. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, we have made a fiscal design that advances on a path that was necessary for the injustices that had occurred in the previous tax policy, a change that leads us to a horizon of progressiveness, redistribution, where the upper classes contribute to the extent of their wealth, their income or their dividends, where the large companies and conglomerates tax according to their billing and where all these sectors contribute to social policies that are so necessary for the rest. It's over, ladies and gentlemen. I have tried to disprove why these budgets we have designed are more important than ever to this country. They are necessary - and I hope I have explained it - because we have to correct the social gap, the generational gap and the gender gap that have left us years of crisis and misguided policies, and also because it is urgent to reorient our productive and economic growth model if we do not want to stay behind in this globalized world. These budgets, ladies and gentlemen, are an ordeal to inequality in all its facets and in all its aspects, because it was time for people, inequities and injustices to be part of the concerns of the people we govern. These budgets increase the pensions of Catalans, Riojans or Andalusians; they raise the income to the precarious workers, who will receive a higher salary in Balearic Islands, Aragon or Murcia; they are positive budgets for unemployed people over fifty-two years old, who will receive a higher subsidy living in Galicia, the Canary Islands or Castile and León. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u29	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u30	In short, they are budgets that aim to build a better country and are good for Spain as a whole. Because, ladies and gentlemen, a country is built by eliminating inequalities; because a country is built by cohesive citizens, not by confronting them; because a country is built by legitimizing taxation; a country is built by bringing public services to excellence or a country is built when people can pay rent. [[Applause. - Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!]] This is how a country is built. The construction of a country, ladies and gentlemen, does not depend on who has the longest flag, but on the ability to reach agreements to improve the lives of our fellow citizens. That's exactly what this is about. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u31	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u32	And these budgets are positive... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u33	Silence, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u34	Thank you, President. And these budgets are positive for the citizens of this country against the amendment to all those who want to... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u35	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u36	... to perpetuate inequalities and continue to prevail over privileged sectors at the cost of punishing the middle classes; against those who militate in the worst, best, and who subordinate the common well-being to their own interests, thereby discrediting politics and democracy. I have tried to transfer the goodness of this budget, which I believe is many. It is certainly an improvement, but for that, ladies and gentlemen, we have a parliamentary procedure where we can dialogue and add together. Therefore, I appeal to those who believe in politics as a common good and to work to improve people's lives. Now they have the opportunity to contribute to the construction of this country with budgets designed for people, designed to recover, to unite, to weave the collective, what unites us as a society. In short, these budgets are the first step towards recovering the social contract that was broken during the crisis and regaining the confidence of citizens in the usefulness of politics. To the groups that have tabled amendments to the whole, I say to you: criticize the budgets, say what you do not agree with, explain your ideas, propose alternatives, debate, because that is to do politics, but, ladies and gentlemen, do not disqualify with lies or half truths and without proposals, because that is simple demagoguery and a bad service to the politics of this country, to the interests of this country, that only produces detachment and delegitimization, although sometimes I think that is what some of you claim. [[Applauds]] I know that from the People's Party and Citizens I can't expect anything. Both political groups have opted for an irresponsible attitude, slipping into a very dangerous slope for democracy. To the rest of the formations, I ask you to reconsider your position. They may not agree with all the budgets presented, but that does not justify their return when they contain an important package of social cutting measures that will benefit all citizens, regardless of where they live or the party they vote for. Ladies and gentlemen, do not give up this debate area. If they do, I sincerely believe that they will have difficulty explaining why they join their votes with those of those who want to aspire to keep this country from moving forward. I ask you to amend the accounts wherever you see fit and, ladies and gentlemen, to try to reach agreements. That is, in short, what people are asking of us; that is why they put us here, to try to dialogue, reach agreements and find the best possible solution. Therefore, if we share the interest in improving people's real lives despite different political positions, ladies and gentlemen, there can be no excuse for the common good, which is the good of all, to prevail above all. There, ladies and gentlemen, you will find this government working. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and from the members of the Government, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u37	Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended until 3 p.m. It was one and twenty-five minutes in the afternoon. The meeting was resumed at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u38	The meeting was resumed. Prior to the continuation of the agenda, we shall take the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Don Juan Bravo Baena, I ask Mrs Kissy Chandiramani Ramesh if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u39	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u40	Mrs Kissy Chandiramani Ramesh has acquired the full status of MP. Congratulations, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u41	We now turn, ladies and gentlemen, to the debate on the full amendments to the State General Budgets Bill for 2019. Six amendments have been tabled to the full refund of the State General Budgets Bill for 2019. In defence of the amendments tabled by your groups, Mr Casado Blanco intervenes, first of all, by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Montero, what a piece of paper you've been made to do! come and explain some General State Budgets that are already injured by death. It's like selling a fish that already starts to smell bad. It has also done so for thirty minutes, abrogating those who abide by the Constitution and taking offense against those who attack it. It's like that Casablanca scene where Inspector Renault says: What a scandal, what a scandal, here you play!, while you get the winnings of your game. I mean, today you come here to say what scandal, what scandal, the independenceists to approve the General Budgets of the State asked us to support self-determination! And what did you think, that you would ask for a letter for the anthem of Spain? But if that's what you've been asked for in the motion of censure, what you've been asking for in these eight months and what you've probably agreed on under the table since you've been sitting on that blue bench. [[applause]] What a scandal, what a scandal, the independenceists are independenceists, secessionism wants to break Spain, calls for self-determination! What a scandal that also coincides with the opening of the trial! Because in the end, budgetary policy, like all the little policy this government has had, has been linked to the process. Today, precisely, that this trial is initiated against the worst coup to the state that has suffered Spanish democracy since 23-F, of which here there are still some vestiges, today what I have to do is to claim the work of the People's Party. [[rumors]] Thanks to this parliamentary group the statute was appealed and they are being tried in the Supreme, if they would not be tried in the High Court of Catalonia, with judges appointed by the independence parties in the Parliament of Catalonia. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] Thanks to the People's Party and the Government - which Mr Sánchez supposedly wanted to remove with a motion of censure, and he succeeded in doing so - there are eight acts appealed in the Constitution. Thanks to this Government, he submitted himself to a coup Government of the Generalitat whose leaders are now sitting in the Supreme Court or fleeing the Spanish justice system. Thanks to the application of 155. Because of that, justice can do its job today. And thanks also to other people, whom I want to remember. For example, the State Attorney General, José Manuel Maza, who was unjustly repudiated by this bench in this House. [[Applauds]] Or thanks to instructor Pablo Llerena, who is crushed and vilified by his government partners, by the independenceists who paint yellow on his portal or go to restaurants to frighten him and his family. Or, thanks to the State Security Forces and Corpses, which complied with their obligation, placing order, complying with the law and judicial instructions, while too many parties in this House insulted them and accused them of having a Government command over the State Security Forces and Corpses, as required by the judges, in this case a judge. [[Applauds]] In short, the People's Party is always going to defend justice, its performance, but unfortunately, the Socialist Party government has tried to take away the sword from justice to stick it to the Constitution behind its back. [[A lady MP: Hala!-Rumors]] That is what we have seen, and that is why we have seen that for two months the President of the Government has hidden the document with twenty-one measures from that ghostly summit of Pedralbes, where he was received as a foreign head of state. As much as the People's Party has asked you to publish it, we had to learn last week about Mr. Torra's leak of what he was asking for. A document that spoke of a Francoist justice, of police and judicial abuses, of the connivance of the judiciary with political parties, of the need to regain the separation of powers, judicial independence. A document which also referred to an international mediator, between an autonomous community and the Kingdom of Spain. A document that said that the parliamentary monarchy was also a virtually late-offranist institution, which had to be tried to whitewash or improve. A document which, of course, referred to self-determination. All of that happened and we met last week. But unfortunately, and as I said, the line of the government of Pedro Sánchez coincides with the process and with the budget negotiation; and I will explain it. At the only meeting we had at the Palais de la Moncloa, two of the issues discussed were made public by the Socialist Party and the People's Party, as agreed, and were the budgets and the response of the State to the coup of the independence parties. On both issues - we also did so through the Ministry of Finance - we proposed our collaboration. We said that general state budgets could be agreed if taxes were lowered, the deficit path respected and debt amortized. We also said that we could go together to curb the escalation of the independence leaders, applying article 155 with the absolute majority of the People's Party in the Senate. The answer was known, the budgets with Podemos were agreed on by drum and platter, and negotiations with the independence leaders began. Some of them were intuited from August, from that already, unfortunately, famous phrase of Mr. Torra saying that the State had to be squeezed and attacked; to what came out in her rescue Vice President Calvo to say that they were just unfortunate phrases. We continue with that appeal to the Minister of Territorial Policy so that there would be no prisoners in pre-trial detention; the desire of the government delegate to say that, hopefully, they would receive a pardon if they were convicted; the appeal to the Catalan nation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs himself in the BBC, or that absorptive violence that the secretary of organization demonstrated after the protest day of Kale Borroka on 1 October. In the meantime, it must be recognized that the independenceists spoke clearly and said what they wanted to do. To begin with, what Mr Torra came to say, without going any further, is that he supported the CoRs, the CoRs that were taking over the Parliament, who were beating women who were taking away yellow ties, who were trying to assault peaceful demonstrations by police in Barcelona, those CoRs that were going to crush the homes of opposition leaders in Catalonia, those that were blowing up cars, those that were going to trade, in short, those that were encouraging even the Slovenian road, that is to say, the civil confrontation, just as this racist, supremacist - according to his youth writings - Mr Torra, wanted for Catalonia. However, the answer did not come, neither in this House nor in any request of the constitutionalist parties, we only received attacks. There was talk of dialogue. Discuss with whom and about what? There is no dialogue with independent prisoners but to ask them to dialogue with their lawyer and to explain to the judges. Discuss with whom and about what? With the independence leaders in the Generalitat one can only talk about when the 155 is applied, when they are deposed and when the legality and coexistence in Catalonia is recovered. Dialogar, said Mrs. Montero, as Suárez did. Minister, Adolfo Suárez, in the last coup d'état that took place in Spain, stood up and confronted the coup-makers while they were taunting the vice president of the government. [[Applauds]] His boss, Pedro Sánchez, is going to Pedralbes to negotiate with those who are giving the coup d'état. The comparisons are hateful, you don't compare me to President Suárez with President Sánchez. It's exactly the opposite, either you plant yourself face to face to those who hit or you need your support to stay on the blue bench. [[Applauds]] We were told that at the last parliamentary appearance. Mr Tardà and Mr Campuzano said: Mr Sánchez, you are sitting on the blue bench thanks to the votes of the Republican Left and the PDECAT parties in the motion of censure. Moreover, they said: You should have fulfilled what you committed to. That's what they said. When I review what has been going on, it is perhaps that you have committed, as you did, to demanding the State Attorney's Office to withdraw the charge of rebellion against the independence prisoners. His Minister of Justice has yet to account for why he removed the head of the State Attorney's Office when he refused to withdraw that accusation. Perhaps Mr Tardà and Mr Campuzano know that you promised to ask the prosecution to withdraw that criminal qualification, which, fortunately, the prosecution has refused. Or, perhaps, a newspaper was right when it published in four columns that the Supreme Court was receiving intolerable orders and interference from the Government to influence this process. What is happening is therefore extremely serious and, moreover, they are now trying to extend it with these budgets. It brings here the Minister of Finance some budgets like the last shipwreck board, like the last chance to hold on after having clashed with the iceberg, with that legality that the Spanish society, last weekend, had already had to go out on the street to claim. They come here to say, now, that the political parties have to support accounts that are, moreover, unfair, unequal and that they intend to continue to fund the breakdown of legality by the parties in Catalonia. You say that all the autonomous communities were well treated, that is not true; we have seen the increase in investment in Catalonia and even the fulfilment of the additional provision of the statute itself. You come here to say that what was being watched over in these budgets is only for the economic growth and the guarantee of the social policy of the Spaniards, which is absolutely false too. But, before we enter into this, I insist, it is one more board in a policy in which all that we have received from the parties that defend the Constitution is rejection, because since August, in these eight months we have brought more than ten legislative measures to this House for you to have been able to pass them; tomorrow you have the opportunity to approve one of them, which is the definition of the illegal referendum in the Penal Code, as the People's Party had, through which we were able to stop the Ibarretxe plan, with which we would not even have needed to reach the courts to try to stop the Puigdemont plan and which will allow us to stop the Torra plan as soon as we reach the government. We have also brought an initiative here to ban pardons to those convicted of rebellion and sedition; you have rejected their handling in the relevant Commission. We have also brought here an initiative to regulate public space and defend through a law of symbols that cannot be used either by officials or by those who want to invade those streets to promote independence. We have also proposed amending the Act on the Financing of Political Parties so that one euro is not received by those parties whose leaders have been prosecuted for rebellion and sedition. We have asked them to act through the Parties Act to illegalize any political organization that promotes or justifies kale borroka, violence. We have called for an amendment of the Foreign Action Act to put an end to Diplocat and to close the bad so-called embassies, which they do is to finance independence in other countries with our taxes. We have also called for the Citizens' Security Act to be put in place to give indications to the Mossos d'Esquadra in front of those prevaricating political leaders who do not allow them to fulfil their duty. We have also called for action on the basis of the Budget Stability Act to take account of the finances of the Generalitat and not to use resources in this breach of legality. We have lost a lot of things and have always had the refusal on the part of the Socialist Party; moreover, we have even seen it vote in favour of decriminalizing the outrages of the King of Spain, who was fundamental with the speech of 3 October for that Spain from the balconies to come out of his lethargy and demand also the compliance of the law in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] They now come here with General State Budgets and do so at a time of deceleration that all international indicators are already seeing. They do so at a time when even the European Commission does not believe in its prospect of meeting the deficit. The minister said: well, we had to bring a deficit path of 1.3% because they did not support change. What has changed for you to say in autumn that you did not present budgets because you did not change the deficit path and now present them? I mean, you couldn't bring some budgets - let's put a simile - of the number 38 to put them in a shoe of the number 33 and, now, according to all the international indicators, we are already in the 41, in the 42 and you intend to put them in a shoe of 33? Either it destroys the shoe or it does not allow that person to walk, in this case the Spanish economy to walk. But you don't care, do you? That settles quietly, like when you were caught in a stream, with about 12 billion up and down. We are already in a worrying economic situation. We have talked in other parliamentary sessions about how the risk premium is, with the 30 basic points that you have already raised you have a problem of EUR 3 billion in funding. We have talked about how the labour market is doing and you have not referred to the January EPA, an EPA in which there are 80 000 more unemployed and in which there are 200 000 members of social security less in relation to that period of the previous year. You have not talked either about the industrial output index, how equipment goods go or how, for example, consumption or how indebtedness is going. Nor have you talked about how other international bodies such as the OECD, the IMF or the European Commission are looking forward to these accounts that you have submitted for too many months and that you are not coming here to change. Therefore, if you come here to say that the economic policy of the People's Party was bad, it is something that, in addition to being uncertain, is tremendously clever, bold. That is to say, you, who were already a tax and economic adviser on the Andalusian Board, with some dubious public accounts in your possession; you, who have a chief who was already a deputy in this House when Rodriguez Zapatero left this country in the most absolute ruin; you, who already know perfectly well that in January 6000 jobs have been destroyed every day, when in May 7000 were created every day in Spain; you, who will remember perfectly those 10 points of public deficit, those 3.5 million unemployment that they left; you, who will remember perfectly how they hid in the drawers and carpets those 16 billion euros of invoices in the health sector, the 25 billion euros of tariff deficit; you, who will know that we had to launch a supplier plan of almost 40 billion euros to pay their debts; you, who will know the hidden deficit; you, who will know of the public debt that we had to increase their bills in advance; you, who will know that we have to say something evil about the economy, that we will say something about the economy. [[Applauds]] As for the social policy that you assume we have had seven years of cuts - I think I have also heard it from the President of the Government the other day - seven years of cuts are EUR 26 billion more in social spending, which was the focus of the People's Party? Seven years of cuts is to revalue the pensions and salaries of the officials, who left you frozen in 2010 with Mr Sánchez' vote? [[Applauds]] If Mr Zapatero himself acknowledged it; he came to this House in an already famous appearance - he came as you did; he always came with a bus appearance to talk about the European Council - in which he came to say that those who have suffered the effects of the crisis now have to grab their shoulder to try to solve it. I mean, the usual: the middle classes. Because you are not here simply to do social justice, as I said this morning; social justice or that redistribution of wealth has to be done when wealth is created, and you generate misery, unemployment, debt, deficit. They have always done so; Mr Zapatero did it, Mr González did it and Mr Sánchez will do it in record time. Therefore, if you appeal to pursue good social policies, at least acknowledge that in this budget you already had several approved by the People's Party. In this budget we had already revalued pensions by 1.6% on average, 3% on minimum rates and 8% on widowhood. In this budget, the salary equalization of the State Security Forces and Bodies was already agreed. In this budget the salary increase of the officials was already accepted and assumed, to whom you, I insist, even removed the extra pay and lowered their salary by 5% at that time, of which Mr Sánchez did not remember but did press the button. It was already included in this budget that transfers on behalf of the autonomous communities could improve the health, education or policies they considered. By the way, in historical record the educational policy in scholarships; by the way, in historical record the failure and the school dropout mitigated by the educational law that you now want to carry back. [[Applauds]] 8%, Mrs Celaá, 8%. But that was already raised. It was a budgetary policy that you, seeing that it had been adopted, that the People's Party government had escaped for another two years, ran to the motion of censure, because you knew that we already had a budgetary policy that intended to help the worst people who had passed it in the crisis and that, in addition, it intended to do so by lowering taxes. I meant to do it the way things work, not the way you do it. You bring here a budget that includes more than EUR 5 billion in tax increases, i.e. a rise in real taxes, with real expenses, but, according to all international observers, in the heading of taxes, i.e. revenue, is not going to be met and in the heading of expenditure is going to be exceeded. I explain to myself, in the revenue section you propose, for example, the rise to diesel. That's the rich class, isn't it? Seventeen million Spaniards who get a hack into a tax supposedly green for having a diesel car, by the way, going against Spain's productive economy, because there are forty thousand employees who depend on the engine industry and who manufacture components for diesel cars. [[Applauds]] Brilliant, the idea is brilliant in a sector like automotive. We already know that because they don't like diesel, neither do they like hunting, nor do they like fishing and neither do they like bulls, they will end up banning diesel cars, if they like it. Well, those EUR 600 million - I think you have referred to 670 - are practically the same as what you intend to raise with the IRPF from the highest incomes; by the way, IRPF from an income that is those that create jobs and those that can go to other countries or have the possibility that that money will not be collected because you can go to other areas. I say this because since you wanted to fight tax fraud, you do it very well by raising taxes. And then he proposed that the Tobin tax would raise, if I remember correctly, EUR 800 million. Do you know when the Tobin rate was implemented in Sweden? In 1986. Do you know what happened? That the Social Democratic Government wanted to raise 1 500 million crowns and raised 50, it had to withdraw it because in the end it cannot be opened to the countryside. What you can't do in full brexit, when you should be competing to attract City businesses, is put a tax on financial transactions. Just as it cannot impose a tax on the repatriation of corporate profits from our multinationals, we want the money they earn in other countries to invest in Spain. Just as you should not raise a technological rate when what we want to do, according to your government president, is from Spain a startup nation or a Silicon Valley, which I think is very good, especially if you stop talking about the Valley of the Fallen and talk about other issues. [[Applauds]] What a coincidence, I said the other day, that they were going to talk about Franco this week, I said it. Hey, they make me ask about abortion, they make me ask about women's issues; you'll see how long it takes to talk about Franco. Nothing, it's taken 24 hours, they want to exhume him for the fourth time, I don't know if they're gonna find him, honestly. Well, more taxes on middle classes, social contributions. You detach social contributions and raise the minimum by 22%, which is what raises the inter-professional minimum wage. By the way, the People's Party has already raised it by 8% and 4% respectively in the last two years, and it was already agreed with trade unions and employers to raise it to 850 euros in a sectoral agreement, as is the case, by 2020. You make a rise that, according to BBVA Research, according to the Banco de España, according to the AIReF, can represent from sixty thousand to one hundred thousand jobs less for the most vulnerable sectors, young people, women and long-term unemployed, and what it does is increase the tax on recruitment, exactly what Spain needs, a country that continues with twice as many unemployed as the Community average; you thus want to remove the labour reform, you want to increase recruitment and you also increase recruitment by 7%. Therefore, all this plus the rise of the self-employed and more the rise to corporate tax. Of course, you tell me: you do not talk about what will be collected by lowering 2 points to small and medium-sized enterprises. Yes, about 200 million euros, but it is that you raise 1 billion euros to all the others, which also create jobs. For that is the revenue line, that is what you intend to enter, as always, a fiscal hack, that is, try to put sticks in the wheel to the economy. This is, as Reagan said, the economy of socialism, if it moves, put a tax on it; if it keeps moving, regulate it, and if it no longer moves, put a subsidy on it. That's what you do phenomenal, it's how you know how to do the economy, interventionism so that you always pay the most needy, you always do the same. [[applause]] Well, in the expenditure section we have made it very clear that these budgets are again seeking to finance an election campaign by Mr Sánchez. The increase in expenditure is only comparable to that presented by Mr Rodríguez Zapatero in those years of PlanE, in which Mr Solbes told him Mr Pizarro that we were lying and in which Mr Zapatero said that we were a catastrophe of prophets and prophets of catastrophe. Mr Zapatero did not have to acknowledge it because the Spaniards threw him in the ballot box; Mr Solbes did recognize it in a book, of those that he likes to write to Mr Sánchez or at least publish, he did recognize that he had lied to Mr Pizarro, yes he said: listen, it is true, in the debate Mr Pizarro was right. [[applause.- Rumours]] I mean, you want to refinance an election campaign at the expense of the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u43	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u44	They are also doing so at a time I have already recalled here, at a time when Mr Sánchez was insulting me to go to Brussels to say that the European Commission was not going to like the budget. I have already heard a little bit about the history of when you said that Mrs Calviño had agreed with Moscovici and it turns out that nothing had been agreed, as could be seen, and in the end the European Commission rejected the accounts. [[The Minister of Finance, Montero Quadrado, makes negative signs]] Man no, you didn't reject the accounts and that's why you didn't introduce them? And also the IMF and OECD. I mean, accounts that hadn't even passed through Congress. But, as I said, now that you remind us of what you were doing in those years of the great recession, of the great economic crisis, with these budgets, what do you intend, Mrs Montero? Do you intend to expand the spending to see if it's hanging? Do you intend, asymmetrically, to increase investments in Catalonia by more than 50% when you put a tijeretazo on those in Galicia, in La Rioja or in the Community of Madrid - that is to say, the asymmetric budgets - as Zapatero did, and see where they can govern, as the surveys go, to put axes where we can do nothing? Today he said that these budgets represent both Catalonia and Extremadura. Ask the extremists if the investment there is for Extremadura is the same as for Catalonia! The same one? [[Applauds.-The Minister of Finance, Montero Quadrado, utters words that are not perceived]] I think it's great. Mrs Montero, these budgets are the worst in the history of democracy. Fortunately, it seems that you do not even have confidence that you will end up approving. Fortunately, as I said, it seems that it is the financing of an electoral campaign, to which we welcome: it seems that, finally, as they filter out the public news agency - and then they deny, and then they threaten, and then they retract, in the end, the instrumentalization of the institutions, be it the CIS, be it the EFE Agency, whatever, for the benefit of Ferraz's strategy - they already decide to call elections. Welcome. We have already told you this during many parliamentary sessions. Please note that, today, after reporting on what is happening in Catalonia, I have no longer asked you to apply the 155, because I believe that the 155 that applies will include you. [[Protests]] You also have to be evicted from the government because you can no longer implement a budgetary policy or a policy of defending the legal interests of the independenceists. [[Applauds.-Protests]] You understand the irony, because if we describe the reality, we insult; if we say ironically that the ballot boxes come to you as a 155 de facto so that you let go of the one who knows how to govern, perhaps I find myself the headline in which Mr Sánchez is also offended because I have told him what participation and then I withdraw the greeting, which by the way I no longer know if I have it or do not have it on his side. As you said, Mrs Montero, these budgets are harmful to the economy at national level. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u45	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u46	They come at an international juncture like that of the Brexit, they come with uncertainties in Italy, with the trade war between the United States and China, with a certain rebound in the price of crude oil, although it has diminished, with a certain threat that interest rates are going to rise, and you do exactly the opposite of what any logic could indicate. This is like what Jacques Delors said: You can advance for a while - Zapatero also did, it is true -, by inertia, like a bike that, by stopping pedaling, continues to advance. The problem is, if you don't resume pedaling, you end up falling. That's what happened to the economy in the 2010s and what can happen to you - I hope you don't have time for it -. They've stopped making reforms. They have boycotted educational reform, boycotted labour reform, questioned the reform that had created a lot of wealth, such as market unity, such as the reform of the public administration, and now they have a problem, and that is that they no longer have time to renew the reforms and intend to come here with a budget that, I insist, no one is believed to be bad for Spain. But Mr. Sánchez doesn't care: like Horacio's classic, he applauds while the people whistle at him. He doesn't care what they say on the street, because they're all fairies. He doesn't care about newspaper editorials, because they're all bought. He doesn't care what we all constitutionalists say in the House, because, basically, only he defends the Constitution, that is, with those who want to destroy Spain. He doesn't care what international indicators say, because only he knows how to do economic policy. He doesn't care what Spanish society resists, which is already little, because he has a'manual of resistance'. [[Applauds]] The problem is that his escape is over. The problem for you. Mrs Montero, Mr Sánchez, gentlemen of the government, have been misruled by Spain for eight months. I could say that no one has ever done so much harm in such a short time. They have managed to make the Spanish Government be seen all over the world as a hostage to the independenceists. They have managed, shamefully, to fall into the absolutely ignominious demands of separatism towards the Spanish Government itself. They have tried to perpetuate themselves with public accounts, which I hope will not come forward and that these amendments will be voted on in full, to remain one more month with the Falcon, one more month in the blue bank, one more month receiving people at the Palais de la Moncloa or one more month walking through the Palais de Pedralbes with those who give him the assisted breath in exchange for millions, in exchange for impunity in his coup d'état, in exchange for withdrawing accusations or in return, directly, for humiliating Spain for its permanence in power. Spain is too big for you, Mr Sánchez; I have told you many times: the habit does not make the monk, for many sunglasses to put on, for many pictures in a helicopter or for many airplanes to use. Defending Spain requires defending the Constitution; defending democracy requires being very clear that it is against those who want to destroy it; defending freedom, defending the rule of law or even defending the historical tradition or continuity of our country requires a very good distinction between those who can be its allies and those who should be its opponents in this case. Today, fortunately, we are lucky enough to live in a country in which the judiciary acts, in which the Constitution is preserved, in which the public authorities are not going to let themselves be attacked by those who want to break up with our country, but what is lacking in this country is a good government. Do not prolong your agony, call elections as soon as possible; the Spaniards have already asked for it, of course, and I hope that the House, by voting against these budgets, will once again demand it. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u47	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, the Minister of Finance has the floor. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President. You will see, Mr Casado, I think you have only had to let him talk for thirty minutes about what idea you have of a country, what these budgets look like to you, or how you defend dialogue here in this state, so that we may have, ladies and gentlemen, further reasons for these budgets to continue their processing. [[Applauds]] It's been absolutely expressive. [[Rumors]] Mr. Married has been expressive.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u49	Silence, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u50	I hope that the rest of the groups in the House have listened to you in order to depart from that country position which Mr Casado has described. Mr. Married, you have justified much of what you have said in lies. Are you going to talk about justice, Mr. Married? In his intervention from this rostrum he has not respected the independence of the Catalan judges. [[Rumors]] It's the same, it doesn't matter when you're told this kind of thing. You have not made Mr. Cosidó resign when through a wasap you have transferred to this country the manipulation of justice. [[Applauds.-Protests]] And look, ladies and gentlemen, you had reasons, among other issues, for the involvement of the Kitchen case. [[Rumors]] But you don't care about all that, you've put together a story about this country that is based on the rift, on the lie, on the worst of it, on what we've been listening to from the very first moment you led the People's Party and on what it seems your party conforms to or at least has done nothing to try to deny what you're talking about. You're still talking, Your Honor, about the letter of the Spanish anthem, you're still talking about the flag... you're still in that debate without wanting to leave, and you know why, ladies and gentlemen? Because basically Mr Casado, when he's saying no to these budgets, is clearly expressing his model of society. He's been very clear in his exhibition, and I don't think he's fooling anyone in that. You say no to the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage. [[Denial of Mr. White Casado.-Protests]] He has said it; now he says he has, but he has said it. [[Applauds]] He says no, he says no, and he says no because you, Your Honor, find it a luxury for a worker to charge 900 euros a month. [[Protests]] He explained it perfectly. [[Applauds]] You say no to the rise of pensions because you recommend, ladies and gentlemen.. if you let me speak... [[Several Members of the People's Parliamentary Group: No, no, no.-Laughter]] [[protests]] [[Rumors]] Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u51	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Wait a minute, Minister. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u52	I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that despite...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u53	Minister, just a moment.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u54	...despite the insults we've heard...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u55	Minister, one second. I'll give you the floor again, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you all to remain silent, please. I beg you to respect and I beg you to be silent, all of you, all of you. [[Mr President of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejon: We are very quiet.- Mr de Fomento, Ábalos Meco: We have all been very quiet and it costs a lot.]] Everyone.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u56	Thank you, President. I was telling you, ladies and gentlemen - I will repeat this again - that you say no to the rise of pensions because you advocate and are feeding citizens to make private pension insurance because that is their model of society. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] You say no to the easing of the deficit target that you have been stopping. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u57	Silence! Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. I hope I don't have to call one by one that I see is disrespectful.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u58	Thank you for the amparo, President. You say no to the easing of the deficit target because the goal is to keep public spending down as it has the social cost it has, for you public spending is a waste. You have been saying this over these weeks and it is that you do not share the budget lines that appear in these budgets simply because social spending for you is not an investment policy, it is clearly a superfluous expenditure or an eligible expenditure. This is what they have practiced during all the years of government. You say not to reverse cuts in education and say no to the 10% increase in scholarships because your model is for the public school to run out of content to go to private schools and to centers with tax deductions. [[Applauds]] That is the truth of the model of society that you defend. They say no to the withdrawal of the copayo because your preference is the medical provision with private insurance, as you have been advocating in the tax deductions that you try to make every year. And you say no to the rise in societies and the decline of SMEs because you protect the interests of large income and you protect the interests of large corporations against the social majority of this country, which is made up of middle-class and working men and women and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and self-employed people who try to raise this country every morning thanks to their efforts. [[Applauds]] You say no to the VAT reduction, you say no to women's hygiene products, to the e-book. In short, ladies and gentlemen, you are advocating a model of society that is different from what we are advocating. [[Several Members: Yes]] What happens is that we do talk about the kind of society we aspire to, we don't hide behind the insults, we don't hide behind the lies. Mr Casado, anyone who has heard your speech today will have been able to conclude that it has been a mixture of: Let Spain fall, that we will already raise it or of: Let them get upset, that said Andrea Fabra. All you're saying is that you'll be here by now to pick up all the wreckage you've ever been able to come up with. Because in fact Mr Casado has tried to use this debate to settle accounts with the government but not only with it, but to settle accounts with all those who do not think like you. I am concerned about the authoritarian care that your words have had in this rostrum, Your Honor, yes, I am concerned, I am concerned; I am very concerned. Because you talk about coup, you talk about illegitimacy, you talk about permanently that only those who think like you are within the framework of the Constitution. Therefore, Your Honor, it is worrying the drift of your party to which you are leading, in which there is no one within Spain who does not think like Mr Casado, that is the reality. [[Applauds]] And Mr. Casado, all you have missed this afternoon is saying: the street is mine. You missed that, even though street tracking wasn't what you expected but that's what you were trying to say. [[applause]] But he's wrong, he's wrong. The street isn't yours, it's not yours, it's yours, it's all the Spaniards who have the freedom to say what they think in a framework of respect. You are looking at the flags of the balconies every day, but do you know what this government is doing? This Government is trying to take care of the mood of the homes and the interior of the houses to try to solve their problems and, therefore, to try to fix the day-to-day justice that people want and ask for. Mr Casado, you are preventing the popular will from being expressed in this Parliament and I will tell you why. Some examples. You have amended the Stability Act twelve times with time extensions. That's how you think institutions have to keep moving forward when they're paralyzing them. You have amended the Violence Act during the Civil War and the Dictatorship, which seems to be something that your government partners do not like very much, with twenty-three extensions of time. You have amended or stopped the Law on the regulation of euthanasia with sixteen extensions of time and it is a shame, ladies and gentlemen, that yesterday society had to present in this House more than two hundred and fifty thousand signatures to lift that veto of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Not to mention the Workers' Statute! Forty-six extensions of time or with the limitation of extensions of time to legislative initiative amendments, five extensions of time. If you want we can continue, Your Honor, to show that you are paralysing the institutions. You who claim that the others work alone and exclusively from the institutions to the time of truth are putting sticks on the wheel because, in fact, Mr Casado, you want to shake Spain. You live on the sidelines of confrontation and you want to stir it up for electoral interest because, you see, I think when you came up here you also tried to exclude the Socialist Party from what you call the bloc of constitutionalists. [[A Member of the People's Parliamentary Group: Of course!]] Oh, of course!, says one of your lordships. Are you going to teach the Socialist Party of Constitutionalism lessons? Man! [[Several Members of the People's Parliamentary Group: Yes!]] [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] It's a joke, Your Honor. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, several of whom have stood up.]] It's a joke. We were parents of the Constitution. You didn't even exist. [[Protests.-Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u59	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u60	I think we're of the few political forces... [[Rumors.-Mr. García Aegean: Ask Alfonso Guerra what he thinks!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u61	Silence! Wait a minute, Minister. I ask all your lordships once again to remain silent. I will not give the floor to the minister until there is no silence in the House. The day is very long. We've got plenty of time. [[Pause]] Go on, minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u62	Thank you, President. I think we are one of the few parties in the House that we were in the design and conception of the Constitution. Each of you would be on the corresponding side. Mr. Casado, do you really think it is worth facing Catalonia against the rest of Spain just for a handful of votes? When you talk about recovering your essence - a phrase that you like very much and does not refer specifically to the colony - what are you referring to? Why, in your opinion, should we retreat into the history of Spain forty years ago? Because I hear you talking permanently about that need, you who now seem to miss certain issues relating to that past time, and probably if there had been Mr. Married's People's Party at the time of the transition in this country or the Communist Party had not been legalised. I can assure you that. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Sure! If I know anyone's allergic. Listening to him, from the spirit of harmony, the spirit of dialogue, the spirit of debate and the spirit of giving in so that others can also join the project, I do not hear him speaking anywhere. You are constantly making a speech to exclude and you are just doing it with Catalonia, Mr Casado, because you believe that at the heart of the confrontation between Spain and Catalonia you will be able to scratch a handful of votes. What alternative do you have for Catalonia, Mr. Married? This Parliament has not heard a single proposal for an alternative from Mr Casado for Catalonia. What have you said you're going to take to Catalonia? A 155 sine die? Is the project of the People's Party for Catalonia to intervene in Catalonia's autonomy forever, something that is not even constitutional, Mr. Casado? What is your response to the territorial challenge? Nothing. The proposal of the People's Party is summed up in one word, which is: nothing, because neither is the solution to intervene the autonomy of Catalonia, nor, of course, is self-determination. [[Applauds]] Between removing autonomy to Catalonia and wanting to leave, it seems logical and common sense to find the solution point at which this country has to be modulated. And of course, Your Honor, we will continue to ensure that legality is respected by all. And beware!, Your Honor, by trying to whitewash homophobic speeches, speeches that give the impression that, even when you are innocent, you seem to be skipping the rules. I will insist only once again that you listen to it: The only way out of the independence challenge is dialogue, and this is impossible if, on the one hand, the main opposition party in Spain and Catalonia refuses to engage in dialogue and, if, on the other, the independenceists also ask for impossible things. [[Rumors]] Mr Casado, you have had enough of saying these days that this government had made concessions to Catalonia. Can you tell me here in the rostrum what this Government has granted to Catalonia in the General Budgets of the State? [[A lady MP: A pasta.- Rumors]] I'm telling you, none; he hasn't done any. [[Rumors]] He hasn't done any. There is no concession for Catalonia. There is something you have never accepted: a different conception of the state of autonomy. That's what's in these budgets. Therefore, you continue to lie about your agreement and how you have been made. And by the way, Mr. Casado, when, in 2017, Mr. Rajoy announced in Catalonia, in a drum and platter, 4200 million investments to cover cracks and gave that battle, according to Mr. Rajoy, for moderation and wisdom, did you think that Mr. Rajoy was selling to Spain and yielding to the blackmail of the independenceists? [[One Member: In four years.-Applause]] Now yes, if instead of Mr Rajoy, Mr Sánchez does, it is because he kneels before the nationalists, because he humiliates Spain. Mr. Rajoy, no, Mr. Rajoy could promise $4 billion and that was to relax, calm down and be able to deflate the rift a little bit. To try to comply with the laws voted by this Congress is to break Spain, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? Fulfilling the statutes of autonomy, according to you, is breaking Spain? Because the only loyal party with the Constitution has been and remains the PSOE and this government. And that's the reality, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] You have taken advantage of the independence challenge to move a whole series of ideas or images that are false, that one by one disassembly as the day passes. And I'll tell you one thing, Mr. Married, who was ruling in Moncloa when the October 1st referendum was held? Who ruled in Moncloa when the unilateral declaration of independence was made? Which party ruled in Moncloa when Puigdemont fled across the French border? Can you imagine what Mr. Married would have done if it came to be with a socialist executive? Do you know what the difference is? [[Rumors]] [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]] The difference is that President Sánchez and the PSOE were with the government, they were behind the government. We could have looked for an electoral revenue, but no, we chose national stability, we chose loyalty to the Constitution, we chose the rule of law, which you are neither expected nor expected. [[Applauds]] Mr. Married, there's something from my point of view that definitely means crossing the red line. You question the legitimacy of this government and you do it every day on the streets of our country, but I will tell you one thing, Mr Casado, it is much more legitimate to come to Moncloa with a motion of censure than to come to Moncloa with the chasm, the confrontation and to make the citizens fight among themselves, Your Honor, for the fracture that you are trying to pose. [[Mr. Martínez-Maillo Toribio: Come on, come on!-Applause]] Mr. Married, today you have been more moderate in the rostrum and I thank you. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u63	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u64	But you, Mr. Married, have been during these previous days with a sort of insult in a language - let me tell you - civil war... yes, ladies and gentlemen. [[Denial of Mr. Casado Blanco.-Strong protests]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen. ... in a war-civilist language that equates it to the far right when it does not accept the will expressed in this Parliament and in the Constitution. Because the Constitution, Mr. Married, although you would like it, is not to be removed and put. The Constitution does not keep one with what he likes and removes what he does not like. You can't call Mr. Sánchez illegitimate president without failing the Constitution. You can't do it. [[Applauds]] He can't do it. He even called him a coup on October 24 in this House and you were already talking about hidden pacts. However, as far as I know, there has not been a DUI in the past week, nor has the president escaped, nor has there been a police deployment. On the contrary, a trial is started this week as a response from the rule of law, and I therefore believe that the difference between what you were doing and what we are doing is quite obvious. [[One Member: Quite, quite]] Mr Married, when a government comes to power, you have an obligation to try to solve people's problems and I imagine that you too, if you ever come to power. That is all this Government is trying to do with respect for the law and the Constitution. And what is expected of a governing party like yours, ladies and gentlemen, is a minimum of loyalty; not with the government - it is not asked loyalty with this executive - it is asked loyalty with the state. You are asked for loyalty with the rule of law and you see, Your Honor, that you cannot continue with that diatribe of me or against me. You can't continue to believe that the one who thinks like you then is legitimate and the one who doesn't think like you then is illegitimate. [[Applauds]] It bothers you, Mr. Married, but we will try with dialogue and determination to overcome the independence challenge. Ladies and gentlemen, sooner or later this situation requires a dialogue solution. We will try to remove the reason for those who want to become independent from Spain and we will do so with the law and also with arguments. Provocate with Catalonia, but you also provoke with insults to the president and provoke insulting women. [[Protests.-A honourable Member: How?- Mrs Vázquez Blanco: Hey, stop.]] Mr. Married, isn't that what your party mates tell you? Mr Casado, you have come to say: If we want to finance pensions, we must think about how to have more children, not abortion. That's what you said, Mr. Married, and that's an insult to women. [[Applauds]] How dare you do little less than blame women for not making the pension system sustainable? That statement is macho, Mr. Married. I hope your mates moved it. Are you really going to put the responsibility of sustaining the pension system on top of us too? You have spoken these days about the repeal of the current abortion law, which has already been endorsed by the Constitutional Court - remember? - and you want to return to a 1985 law; a law that, of course, you did not support. Have you discussed this within your party, Mr. Married? Are you sure that the proposal you want to make on this issue is to return to a law more than forty years ago? Again when I'm 40! It's just that Mr. Casado has been fixed at that stage and wants to go back to forty years ago. [[Laughter and applause]] He says he is not a supporter of policies that defend all women or try to criminalize all men; you said so too. But, Mr. Married, do you know that there are dozens of women who are killed every year simply because they are women? Have you really learned what the problem of equality is about? Have you heard about the root causes of discrimination against women? Mr. Married, I hope fortunately in your party not everyone thinks like you. The question is whether that new authoritarian air that we have heard this afternoon in the rostrum - reactionary, if I may say so - yes, yes, so, so, a bad copy of Mr Aznar,...will become the dominant position within his group. [[Several Members of the People's Parliamentary Group: No! No!-Protests]] I would be concerned that the rest of the members of your party are not moving to Mr. Married who obviously does not play with the dignity of women and, therefore, we simply need to be consistent with the policies that have to remove the causes of inequality. [[Applauds]] Because your words are macho, Mr. Married. I'm telling you, they're sexists. It is the opposite of what these budgets have. You say no to the contributions of non-professional caregivers - you will believe that the role of women is to care for the elderly -, you say no to the equalization of paternity permits, you say no to the decrease of VAT, that not to the 220 million fight against gender violence... You do not want to know anything about the fight for equality, which I regret because, of course, this is something that belongs to us all. Furthermore, I also have to tell you that I believe that in the last part of your speech you have clearly shown what your model of taxation is. It seems to you that increasing taxation to 0.5% of businesses and increasing taxation to 0.7% of taxpayers is a hack into taxation of the middle class and the working class. You said it. I mean, raising taxes to that percentage of society that are the ones with the most income, in your opinion, is attacking the middle class and the working class. You don't know what the welfare state is. [[Protests]] No, Your Honor, because this greater contribution involves revitalizing public services and ensuring that the middle class and the working class have quality health, quality education and quality social policies. [[Applauds]] That's what we want and that's what we need. You have also criticized some of the tax figures. I'll read you something you said about the diesel. You said about diesel: the government will design a reform of environmental taxation that improves the application of the polluter pays principle in accordance with the principles of equity, proportionality... Does that ring a bell, Mr. Married, or have you also left that in the background? The law on climate change and energy transition, which is being processed in Congress, precisely contains this paragraph on diesel. But I'll tell you something else. Do you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and Citizens' Party, know that the budget for 2018 provided for this year, since January, a general increase in fuels in nine autonomous communities, diesel and also gasoline, which is greater than what this government is promoting for diesel? You started this year with the 2018 budgets well-marked with a rise in hydrocarbons in nine autonomous communities. And that, Your Honor, is not a tax haven to the working classes, to the middle classes, to those who use a vehicle? [[Applauds]] I'm done, Mr. Married. You can read it in the draft budgets that you approved and that you had raised. And two false premises, Mr Casado, from which the mantras that the People's Party has been moving are derived. You say that the PP has the perfect formula for the Spanish economy to perform a miracle and that the economic miracle supports them. That's what you say without getting colored. Secondly, that the cuts of the People's Party were what Brussels demanded. False, Mr. Married. There is no economic miracle of the People's Party or the cuts were by Brussels. The cuts were pure ideology. [[Applauds]] That has been demonstrated by the path of stability. I'll give you some data. During the People's Party government stage, public debt increased by 28 percentage points, failed to meet the deficit target systematically, accumulated EUR 32 billion from the initial targets, emptied the pension fund, EUR 74 billion, including interest, pushed 60% of the unemployed to social exclusion, forced 50% of workers into partial employment without wanting to do so, abandoned social exclusion to one out of every four children, doubled the number of young people who had to emigrate every year... Do I continue, Mr. Casado, with the economic miracle of the People's Party? [[Applauds]] The achievement of this Government, ladies and gentlemen, has been to demonstrate that an economic policy compatible with the recovery of citizens' rights was possible. That is what Mr Casado does not want to be shown through the processing of that budget. The achievement is that we have managed to present public accounts that comply with Brussels. What do you mean they don't do it, Mr. Married? Have you seen any recommendation, letter or writing from Brussels saying that this draft budget should be withdrawn? No, because the only thing that exists is when Brussels says to go ahead with the draft budgets. And that's what weighs on you, because you went to the door to say you didn't say it. [[Applauds]] I am saying this because of everything you have said about Brussels. You were tougher than what Brussels demanded. The proof is that economic imbalances can be reduced while building a more just society. Therefore, Your Honor, on that particular I believe that you have remained naked. I was already telling you to finish, Your Honor, investment in Extremadura, Extremadura train, Minister of Development, seven million euros. That's the bet the People's Party government made for Extremadura, seven million euros for the train, that's what they did. [[Applauds]] And by the way, Mr. Casado, to you the rest of the autonomous communities... As there are some volunteers or spontaneouss on the People's Party bench sometimes I have to interrupt. Mr. Casado, have you not been told from Andalusia that the status of autonomy is respected as in Catalonia? Has Mr Moreno Bonilla told you to reject this draft budget, when it is the first time that the Statute of Autonomy for Andalusia has been respected? Oh, so you told him? [[Mr. García Egea: Yes.-Mr.Hernando Fraile: Yes he has said so.]] Then Mr. Moreno Bonilla will report to the citizens of Andalusia. [[Applauds]] I was telling you, to finish, Mr. Married, you've stayed naked...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u65	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u66	It has been left naked in all this debate of false news, in all this debate of lies that has been transferred to public opinion since it is discovered that what you said was being done in secret - ceasings, blackmail, all kinds of prebends - with the nationalists shows that it has not been true. That's the problem you have. The problem you have is that from now on, what, Mr. Married? What are you going to monopolize your speech on? Are you going to continue to say that this government has been shamefully - according to your words - making concessions under the table? Will you continue to say that this Government has done what it has done is to try not to present, within its obligations, a draft budget? Are you going to keep saying that everything you've been moving was a lie? When you add your votes to the votes of the independenceists, presumably, what are you going to explain to him on the street, Mr. Casado? That they have a hidden covenant? [[Applauds]] That is the problem; the problem is that it turns out that it was a lie all that the People's Party said, all the story that has brought them here. Mr. Married, don't worry about the election, don't worry. You're counting votes all day, all day long; all day long are if you now take out four, if you take out five, if I care about this date, if I care about this other, if I approach Vox to avoid the bleeding of votes, if I walk away from Vox because now I don't care, if I put myself in the picture, if I stop putting. [[rumors]] Stop counting votes and take care of the citizens' problems, which is what we are here for! Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the members of the Government,]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u67	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Casado Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Montero, being a constitutionalist is better to be opposed to the system that granted the Constitution than to be president of the government in the system that the independenceists intend to impose. [[Applauds.-Protests]] That's constitutionalism. The problem is that Mr Sánchez prefers to remain in the government chair even if he has to break the Constitution and Spain, despite whomever and with whomever. [[Protests]] It is the first time that there is a government president who loses the elections twice with the worst historical result; the first time he reaches power with a non-proposal motion of censure; there was no government program, it was simply lying about what the People's Party had done, lying about it calling elections and now lying about it simply calling them when their independence partners left him. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] I mean, he's the president of the lie. [[Applauds]] I recommend that you listen to Mr Rubalcaba when he said that Spain does not deserve a government that lies or when he said that what you have now is a Frankenstein government or, better, I would say that he is now a zombie, because he is a government that is dead, that he does not yet know it and that he is wandering around trying to agree the budgets with those who have already told him the same thing they said to him eight months ago, that they only use him - as did Dolors Bassa - to keep him in power for their own benefits in their break-up process. I was asking you, Mrs Montero, what proposal we have for Catalonia. I have explained to you the ten initiatives we have put forward in the last eight months, much more than your Government has done. I will tell you something, what we do not intend to do is follow another forty years trying to integrate those who want to disintegrate Spain. It's over! [[Applauds]] The Spanish nation has said enough. I would therefore like to make it very clear to you that the People's Party is going to be the containment of independence blackmail and, above all, the containment of socialist surrender. [[Rumors]] You're talking about the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u69	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u70	I should ask Mr Guerra or Mr Felipe González or all the barons of the Socialist Party what they think about his surrender - that of Mr Sánchez - to the independence claims. [[Rumors]] I don't say that, even your bench says that, those who did participate in a constitution say that. By the way, lessons to the People's Party, not one. Four speakers of the Constitution ended up in the Popular Party: Manuel Fraga, Gabriel Cisneros, José Pedro Pérez-Llorca and Miguel Herrero and Rodríguez de Minón. Four constitutional rapporteurs. [[Applauds]] So, lessons, none. Nor with Zapatero's surrender in 2008, which, by the way, amputated the Socialist Party, both to the PSE - for UPyD - and to the PSC, from which came much of the people who were founders of Citizens. I mean, this is billing. What Pedro Sánchez is doing now, like what Mr. Zapatero did, will pass you the bill. We do not count votes, but I do suggest that you count them at once to reach the government, not just independent parties to reach majorities in this House, try to count votes and win the elections from time to time. [[Applauds]] We think, from what you filter, that it is time to call the elections. Don't give us economics lessons. Let the Socialist Party give economic lessons is a joke! [[Minister of Finance, Montero Quadrado: Yes]] It's just that you left Spain broken in 1996. Mr. Solbes, the one who recommended opening private pension plans... We had to ask for credit from the private bank to pay the extraordinary December. [[Protests]] Do you give us lessons from the pension system? You, who froze the pensions already in the Zapatero era, who left three and a half million unemployed, Spain in the rescue and a deficit of nine points? But how unfavorable they are to come and tell us that we have rescued Spain, that we have also avoided international intervention, that we have created three million jobs, that we have been able to make macroeconomic reforms without any support from them! How do you teach us lessons, that you have ruined Andalusia, that you have been part of the most corrupt, most harmful government, with more unemployment and with more debt in the entire autonomous democratic history of Spain! The minister who was there with the EREs, the minister who is with the queues in education and health, the minister of 23% unemployment comes here to give lessons to this parliamentary group which, to their regret, has saved Spain twice from the crisis! [[Minister of Finance, Montero Quadrado: Yes]] [[protests]] [[Applauds]] [[Protests]] That the two economic miracles of Aznar and Rajoy are studied all over the world, much in spite of what the Socialist Party always does. [[- Cheers. - Rumours. - Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u71	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u72	Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, lessons for women and the defence of equality, not one. This party launched the National Plan against Gender Violence and the State Pact against Gender Violence. [[protests]] [[Applauds.-Mrs. Álvarez Álvarez, stood up: Lie, lie!-Strong protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u73	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u74	Year 2004 and 2015. This game...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u75	Wait a minute, ladies and gentlemen. Wait a minute, Mr. Married. Mrs. Alvarez! Ladies! One moment, Mr. Married, one moment. It is a pity that in the media we do not hear - I will say - the noise, the environment; on the other hand, fortunately. Whoever follows the media, sees me every once in a while raise my voice and they don't know why and I'd like someone to explain why I raise my voice from time to time. You may continue, Mr. Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u76	The party which has improved the pension of working mothers by 5, 10 or 15%, which has narrowed the pay gap by 4.5 points, the party with which during his government the advisers on the boards of directors of IBEX doubled, the party which has legislated telework, which has legislated conciliation, which has extended maternity and paternity leave, the party which has ended up with all the unemployment of women you had created There is no greater policy of equality than the autonomy of women to give a door to the abusers or to give a door to the dependency that any person has, depending on any pressure. [[Applauds]] That is the policy we have in favour of birth, in favour of the fight against inequality, in favour of the fight against gender-based violence. Autonomy. Equality in women's rights and obligations. How can your education party speak, if they have starred in the most harmful laws, with more failure and school dropout in the whole history of Spain! How can you speak your budget balance party, you who have consistently failed as a counselor and we had to reduce the deficit 6 points! [[Applauds]] But you complained and said: you go too fast and you have raised public debt. Man, of course, we opened the drawers and found 100 billion euros that you owed to suppliers, with a tariff deficit, to hospitals. [[Applauds]] But you're making a fool of yourself! That is to say, they hide the deficit, they deceive the European Commission, we come to fix it, and we are to blame? Frankly, I believe that this government is giving the final blows, this government is already dying between the tanners and you come to me to say that today we are making sure that we have not given up on the independenceists at all. But if they've made a fool of themselves, if they've had to leak the document two months after we asked! If they had to explain what they had asked of him in Pedralbes, if they had to come and recognize and amend to the Vice-President of the Government that of the rapporteur who led the negotiations! That's a big mouth. You are going to be in the government for a short time, but you will pass into history as the government that was nine months depending on the support of those who wanted to break Spain. No one who is ashamed of Spain can be president of the government. There can be no president of the government who criticizes people who manifest themselves by national unity. Can't be president of the government someone who prefers to be bargaining with those who give a coup d'état than with those we hold hands with in August to try to alleviate that coup d'état! You do not give the size and you - and I say this solemnly here - have betrayed the Spanish Constitution! Call elections! Get out of here! This country deserves a better government than you now represent! [[Rumors.-Protests]] [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, stood up.-Rumores]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u77	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance. [[Rumors]] I beg you all to remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u78	Thank you very much, Madam President. If I may joke, ladies and gentlemen, what a pity that there are no more debates of this kind!, because Mr. Married must only be allowed to speak, to go up to the rostrum, for one to be frightened,...... Mr. Married, as you speak, in the language and tone in which you speak. [[Laughs.-Applause.- A honourable Member: Well drink water!]] Mr. Married, I believe that in the heat - if I may say so - of the speech..., - yes, yes, of the speech, yes - you do not fall into what you say; I want to think about it, Mr. Married, because it would be much more serious if you were conscious. [[rumors]] You use words as containment, as surrender. As I said before, these are totally civilist words that you use to refer to the rest of the parliamentary groups that make up this House. [[rumors]] You said something here that I missed. What are you going to do with Catalans who don't think like you, Mr. Married? What have you said you are going to do with Catalans who do not share your thoughts? What are you going to do, Mr. Married, because you said...? [[Mr. Casado Blanco and Mr. García Aegean: The Law, the Law]] Ah, the law; the law is the one that we apply and the one that is being applied in this country, isn't it? [[Mr García Aegean: The rapporteur]] Ladies and gentlemen, you're portraying yourselves... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u79	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u80	...because you are not interested in defending the law, you want the lie and the confrontation to reach the Moncloa. [[Applauds]] I'm worried, I'm worried about the idea of Spain that Mr. Casado has reflected in this rostrum. Everyone who does not think as one thinks is outside of Mr Casado's Spain, and that, Your Honor, is a very dangerous drift, it is a drift that you have to make him look at, because this Spain is inclusive, in this Spain we all have a gap and there is no one who has to be excluded by their way of thinking. You will see, Your Honor, who does not defend the welfare state and does not defend the autonomy state cannot defend the Spanish Constitution. It's just that simple. [[Applauds]] You, who weaken the state of autonomy and the state of welfare cannot be called constitutionalists. Because it breaks Spain, Mr Casado, when they confront the territories, it breaks Spain when it confronts the citizens, not when it dialogues within the framework established by the Constitution. It breaks Spain with the attitudes you have, Mr. Casado. You, like the bad actors, over act. That's why I'm telling you to let him go, that you go up to the rostrum and talk for a long time. You're cashing in on that same paper, on a paper that leads to fire and chryspation. I believe, Your Honor, that what you really don't want to talk about is people's daily problems and neither does the People's Party want to talk about the judicial cases that affect the People's Party itself. Because you make it all into an internal confrontation, you make it a bold weapon. I will make it very clear to you, ladies and gentlemen of this House, that the People's Party has no alternative. The economic and social failure of its policies has been demonstrated over the past seven years. [[Protests]] And I wasn't going to tell you, Mr. Married.. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u81	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u82	I wasn't going to tell you when I was going to talk to you about the economic miracle, but since you've slipped through that side alluding to my role in Andalusia, I'm going to tell you: Do you know where the economic miracle of the People's Party is, Mr. Married? In jail. The economic miracle is in prison. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I have a few points on the table.]] No, Mr. Married, cuts and corruption is not what the Spanish want, no matter how much you wave the flag. The Spanish want less chryspation and that is achieved with more rights, it is achieved with better public services, with greater political and economic stability: what this draft budget really brings. The essence of a debate, Mr Casado, is to stand in the other's position and try to move forward, listen to your arguments and exchange ideas, but you have denied any possibility of listening to anyone who does not think like you, come from wherever you come from. Your Honor, you have also spoken of elements that, from my point of view, are important. You have come up here and talked about something as essential as the fight for equality and I say, Mr. Married, if you basically say you believe in the fight for equality, why did you say all those questions about women that I told you in my previous speech? And you make such a gesture from the rostrum saying you don't care. The problem is that Mr. Married, who does not believe in equality, as is shown every time he speaks, is ultimately forced to make some kind of courtesy gesture, it will not be that someone interprets him on the path you do not want to take. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] And the struggle for equality, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, belongs to society as a whole. Therefore, there is no reason to allow us to remove those issues that are important to all of us. Mr. Married, you have spoken of all those elements that, in your opinion, were out of the law or out of the Constitution, but when are you going to withdraw Mr. Cosidó from the Senate spokesman? Do you know that the judicial investigation casts that they used reserved funds to try to hide the issues arising in the People's Party? [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] That's what the judicial investigation says, Your Honor. You've emptied the Social Security box, every citizen knows that. You guys emptied the Social Security hatch. You, ladies and gentlemen, are constantly transferring elements that do not correspond to reality at all. It is not true, you destroyed employment during the years of the crisis, of course you destroyed employment during the years of the crisis, and of course the recovery of employment is now being carried out, ladies and gentlemen, now. [[Several Members: Now?-Rumores.-Mr. García Aegean speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u83	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u84	Yes, ladies and gentlemen, now, of course, because you have spoken of the data of the crisis... [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u85	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u86	Mr. García Aegean, this is the third time you've alluded to me. Mr García Egea, I hope that now that you are ruling in Andalusia, you will stop manoeuvring and using Andalusia always to discredit it by talking about corruption, unemployment or what it means. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] At least now that they rule in Andalusia.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u87	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, Andalusia has always met the stability objectives, Mr Montoro is here to corroborate it. When this minister was a finance advisor, she met the stability objectives, she met the debt and the government deficit. [[rumors]] You never complied, ladies and gentlemen, so you can't tell me. [[Applauds]] I'm done, Mr. Married. I'd say you're still installed in the same speech. You are still interested in confrontation and bold weapons. You are trying to whitewash the positions of the far-right party that you are partners with, with which you are talking, with which you are putting yourselves in the photo, because permanently, ladies and gentlemen, you are leading the People's Party towards the far-right thinking that this bloodletting of votes can prevent it. And you know what I tell you, Mr. Married? That the more you hold Vox, the more votes you hold Vox. That's what's happening in this country. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] And that's something you have to look at, because it's dangerous that the far right of this country is bleached at the hands of the People's Party, it's quite dangerous. [[Applauds]] As I say, Mr Casado, you have no alternative, and this is one more reason for no political force to vote with Mr Casado. I am curious about what energy Mr Married is going to devote to the days after amendments to the whole are expected to come forward, if you are going to continue to deceive all citizens by talking about hidden pacts, intolerable sessions or a challenge to the Constitution. I believe, Your Honor, that from that moment on you will do what you have done today in this rostrum, continue counting votes, continue counting votes, in this case asking for elections. And you know what I tell you, Mr. Married? You will have time to recover because this government will continue to improve the lives of citizens as long as it can and will do so from loyalty, from the Constitution and from the empathy of getting on the skin of others, not like you, who live in your right-wing ranks. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and from the members of the Government, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u89	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Go ahead, Mr. Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u90	Thank you, President. Members of Parliament, citizens who are following this debate, if noise permits. Today, after the show we've seen of bipartisanship, I would like to - call me classic - talk about budgets, because I think that's what we're here to talk about. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u91	Wait a minute, Mr. Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u92	I haven't had much luck.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u93	Wait a minute, Mr. Rivera. I'll give you the floor. I beg your lordship's silence. Anyone who wants to leave the Chamber should do so, but, please, I beg your silence. I also remind all your ladies and gentlemen that at the Spokesman's Meeting we have spoken of this as a budget debate. You may continue, Mr. Rivera. [[Rumors]] Excuse me? Excuse me? [[Rumors]] In case I didn't hear it right. Go on, Mr. Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u94	Thank you, President. As the President said, we are going to talk about the General Budgets of the State, not the 'and you more' between the PP and the PSOE or the PSOE and the PP, which is what we have seen in the last forty years in this House. I think it's time to talk about the Spanish and it's time to talk about the Spanish nation. Therefore, today I announce that Citizens have tabled this amendment in its entirety for two main reasons: these are bad budgets for the Spanish economy and for the pocket of the Spanish and these are bad budgets for the future of the Spanish nation. These are the two main reasons why we have tabled this amendment. Then, in the first part, as I told you, I will try to explain why this is a blast in the pocket of the Spaniards, why it is not good news for the middle class, why it is not good news for the credibility of the Spanish economy. Look, the macroeconomic situation is not good. We are in a process of deceleration, growth forecasts are falling, the latest data from the unemployment of January are the worst of this month since 2014, and we are in 2019, are the worst data from the unemployment in January for five years, and this government has no idea other than to bring in budgets that stop job creation and raise taxes to the middle class. The European Commission, which is not of Citizens; the Bank of Spain, which is not of Citizens; the AIReF, which is not of Citizens, has already told you where you are: in lying, in fraud, in deceiving citizens. It does not say Citizens, who also warned him in this rostrum. I asked him, Mr Sánchez, in a control session, how they intended to cover the hole of more than 10 billion that had these budgets. You told me there was no hole. They went to the European Commission and told them, literally, that these budgets are at risk of non-compliance, precisely with this fiscal restraint. Therefore, Minister, you will say whatever you want, but these budgets have a warning, a warning, from the European Union, are at risk of non-compliance. Why are they at risk of non-compliance? Because you have a hole of 10 600 million euros, and when you make a hole in Spain, you know who pays it? The middle class, the citizens, with more taxes and cuts, as Mr Zapatero did. So this party is not going to collaborate with the holes that Mr Zapatero has already made or with those that the People's Party left before. This party, Citizens, wants to meet the deficit, wants to meet Europe, wants to meet the Spanish. Minister, you lied to one thing. The only budgets for the last ten years that meet the marked deficit and the European deficit path were those for 2018. Yes, it was the last year's agreements between Citizens and the previous government. [[Applauds]] Mr Zapatero read it brown, he said there were 6 deficit points and there were 9 deficit points; Spain at the point of the rescue, so much so that we had to be rescued, although Mr Rajoy denied it. Then, for successive years, Mr Rajoy and the People's Party failed to meet the deficit. The only budgets that have emerged from this House with a deficit path that they have met are those agreed between Citizens and the previous government. Those are the only budgets. That is our way of acting, seriously, rigorously. And to think of Europe is to comply with Europe, Minister, not to deceive Europe. Nor do they stick to Europe, to the AIReF, to the Banco de España. I do not know whether you will deceive your militants, but, of course, the European Union will not deceive you. So they are bad budgets because they are said by the main political and fiscal authorities of this country and the European Union. Mr Sánchez intends to make a hole of 10.6 billion so that future governments will have to take steps to do so again. These budgets lack credibility, because when you lie you lose credibility. Do you know what happens when the economy loses credibility? That costs us money. Any citizen will understand: when they don't trust you, they ask you for more interest on credit. Spain is a country with a debt of 96% today. Spain is a country that owes 8.6% of the budget only in financial cost. Minister, if we owe all that, if the second largest budget item is the financial cost of the Spanish debt, do you think it is a good idea to lie to the European Union, to lie to the markets? [[Applauds]] The latest budgets reduced that debt by 623 million, and these only do so by 150, four times less. Therefore, you are already accelerating, again, the creation of that debt. Madam Minister, Mr President - you laugh, but the Spaniards, when they raise taxes, it won't be nice for them. More deficit, less credibility, more debt, more interest; this is a dangerous circle for the Spanish economy. And you, who give everything the same, who are here for a quarter of an hour with a motion of censure, bring budgets that are going to crush the middle and working class and that are going to cool the Spanish economy. That is why we are voting that no, we are voting that not because a liberal party, which believes that the better the economy works, cannot vote in favour of an obsolete thesis of those who think that taxes should be raised. We can't raise taxes in a global world, we have to be competitive, Mr. Sánchez. Inventing taxes that do not exist anywhere in Europe causes capital to flee to other places in Europe, to flee people and businesses to other places in Europe. [[Rumors]] Yes, that you put the first Google rate in Spain and do not do so according to the twenty-seven countries of the European Union ultimately causes fiscal competition for our companies; that you want to create a tax on financial transactions when most countries do not have it causes such transactions to occur elsewhere in Europe. In short, if we live in a global world, socialism is a bad idea, and it is because it rises taxes, capitals run away and companies run away. [[Applauds]] We are going to vote against these budgets because they go up the IRPF again. We spent 2018 fighting with Mr Montoro and the carrot, we managed to get the IRPF down after ten years of climbs from Zapatero and Rajoy and, when we got Spain to start lowering taxes, Sánchez came up again to raise them. Mr. Sanchez, it's a bad idea, people are going this far. [[He's holding his right hand around his neck.]] Many people in this country do not arrive at the end of the month and it is a bad idea to put four cents in the diesel for every cent to gasoline; it is a bad idea to raise almost three euros the cost of a deposit at this time and it is a bad idea to do it to people who may not be able to change the car. You talk about the rich talking about the diesel drivers. Hey! What a rich stranger! You can't change the car. They have to fill the deposit to go to work, to take the family or the children to school. Are they rich? No, they're not rich, they're the ones who pay you and me the salary and those who don't arrive at the end of the month. Those are the people who are going to suffer the saber of the 'dyselazo'. [[Applauds]] Nor are we going to vote on these budgets because they increase the cost of recruitment for both self-employed and workers. What a bad idea, Mr Sánchez, at a time of brake, with the worst unemployment in the last five years, to slow down recruitment; what a bad idea to increase recruitment costs. If a self-employed person has to hire a person who is unemployed and you make it more difficult for him or her to hire him or her because he or she does not hire him or her for less hours. It is a bad idea, and you raise the recruitment costs and contributions for both self-employed and self-employed middle class workers. It is a bad idea to stop employment, Mr Sánchez, at a delicate time for the Spanish economy. Nor are we going to vote, as I have said, on that financial transaction tax that is going to make those transactions run away elsewhere. Nor are we going to vote for it for technology companies, because when the European Union has not done it you want to do it in Spain and, moreover, collecting less than you say. In short, Mr Sánchez and the Socialist Party want us to be the champions of the tax world, the champions of Europe by inventing new taxes, and I think that is a bad idea. I think there must be a lot of people paying and paying less, a lot of citizens in the real economy paying and paying less taxes, which is what we did since the opposition, when they left us, negotiating previous budgets. It has been shown in Spain that raising taxes does not get any more collection, because when taxes go up, the economy is stopped and the collection is stopped; instead, when there are moderate taxes, when the economy works, we end up collecting more and paying for social services. That is the liberal policy and an open society in which he believes Citizens, unlike the socialism of the twentieth century, which he believes should be taxed to the middle class. We do not want to be world champions of taxes or fiscal holes; we want to be champions, yes, in rigor, seriousness, growth, reform and modernity. In that we do want to be champions, and that is why we cannot vote on these budgets, Minister. The question is: You, who are going to put your hand in the pocket of the citizens with the diesel, with the contributions of the self-employed, with the social costs, with the new taxes, have you thought of making some reform that reduces doubles in the administration? Has it occurred to them to abolish the deputies? [[Applauds]] No, that's never, ever. Has it occurred to them to remove duplicate entities or duplicate public enterprises in many autonomous communities where they govern? No, for what?, it's much easier to put your hand in the pocket of the citizens. Has it occurred to them to reform the institutions, such as the Senate? No, that's never. Here it is a question of squeeze the hen from the golden eggs, the working middle class of this country, and Citizens will not collaborate. Citizens are tired of always paying the bill. Whenever there is a hole in Spain, whenever a government comes to put in place ideas that cannot be financed pays the duck itself, the citizen on foot with his taxes and with cuts. So we are not going to cooperate in an economic policy in the opposite direction. Mr Sánchez, this economic policy has also been marked by Mr Iglesias. If we have seen him sign; we have seen a populist sign an agreement in the Moncloa. You are the first president to sign a government agreement with a populist in Moncloa. You gave him all the space; remember that photo of Sanchez behind and Mr. Iglesias signing the budgets in the Moncloa. Well, look, just by thinking that this country's economy is carrying it.We can - also call me classic - I don't like these budgets very much. I think it's a bad idea to give Pablo Iglesias the baton of the Spanish economy, and you have given him the baton, you have pummeled the budgets and you have pummeled the Spanish economy. We in the economy we may not agree - it's okay, we disagree -. We do not believe in the economy of Podemos to crush the middle class, to raise taxes; we believe it is an obsolete policy, of other times, but not of the 21st century or of an open society. Mr Sánchez, with regard to the economy, these budgets are bad for the Spanish pocket and are bad for the credibility of the Spanish economy, but we will also not support some budgets that you bring here thinking about how to buy more time to spend another quarter of an hour in the Moncloa. And now I go to the second part of why we are going to vote against these budgets. These are bad budgets for the future of Spain, bad budgets for equality and union between Spaniards, bad budgets to guarantee that majority constitutionalist bloc in this House that should build bridges rather than trenches. These are bad budgets, Mr Sánchez, because you with these budgets just want gas for a month, two months, five months and stay in the Moncloa. There was a sentence you said that I very much agree with. He said that governing was not about living in the Moncloa. For I repeat it in this rostrum, Mr Sánchez: to rule is not just to live in the Moncloa, it is not to go by plane or helicopter, it is not to rule. [[applause]] To govern you have to have majorities, you have to have consensus, you have to make reforms, you have to have a project from Spain not from the past, and you don't have a future project or a majority, you go to a clean decree and, listen, from the hand of Podemos and the separatists to get any rules out of this House. What can go wrong if we can bring the economy and Torra national politics, right? What could go wrong? Everything, Mr. Sanchez, exactly everything could go wrong if we went this way. So we're going to vote not with both hands to the budgets, because they're the gasoline you want to continue negotiating with the separatists until the legislature is over. Of course, we, Mr Sánchez, who know something and suffer from separatist politicians in Catalonia, are not going to give them air nor an oxygen float as you give them. You are the colloquium of separatist politicians, the president desired by those who want to liquidate Spain. It's not an opinion, they've said it. Junqueras and some ex-cons have said, "Hey, we're more interested in Sanchez. Well, look, if anyone who wants to liquidate Spain is interested in Sánchez, for that rule of three, the Spaniards are not interested in Sánchez, basically. [[Applauds]] To all this, Mr Sánchez, you could rightly tell me: This is your opinion, Mr Rivera, this is what you think, but this is not what I think all Spaniards think. And of course, when we are in the dichotomy between what you think and what I think and if I'm right, do you know how that is resolved in democracy? Voting, Mr. Sanchez. Do you know what it's like to vote? Vote! [[Applauds]] So if you are so satisfied with your agreements, in the economy with Podemos and with the separatists in national politics, do one thing: call elections immediately, and if you have done so well, listen, you can get up to absolute majority, who knows; I doubt it, but, well, who knows. Now, if you haven't done so well and the Spaniards are starting to be here about your policy of alliances with the separatists, they still kick you out. [[Take your right hand to the neck]] So why don't we put this in the ballot box? Why don't you face the Spaniards? What are you afraid of the Spanish people? You cannot be president of Spain and fear the Spanish people. You can't be president of Spain and hide the ballot boxes from the Spanish people. The first fundamental right in a democracy is to vote and elect your government and your parliamentary majority, and you, who entered with the motion of censure through the back door in May - reminds all of Spain - when you were asked at a press conference: When will you call elections, Mr Sánchez? He replied: The sooner, of course. Well then 'how much sooner of course' was in May and it's February 2019, you go for a year almost and don't call. That's a fraud, Mr. Sanchez, that's a fraud. [[The President of the Government spoke words which were not perceived.]] Yeah, it's been a long time and the Spaniards don't know how long they're being made, yeah. [[Applauds]] You have the Resistance Manual and the Spanish the Patience Manual, of Patience with Sanchez. [[Applauds]] But it's over, Mr. Sanchez. If these budgets fall, it will be your political will. These budgets are Mr Sánchez's political will. The last document that embodies sanchism, the last document that tries to group the Frankenstein Government, the last document that tries, in short, to extend what sanchism has done by entering through the back door. Mr Sánchez, your party - Mr Iceta has already said, Mrs Cunillera has said - wants to pardon those who are starting trial today. Can you imagine what a Spanish judge or a Spanish prosecutor can think of playing the guy, who has to be escorted, who endures harassment and destruction, death threats to his family? Do you imagine that today you must feel a judge who has made an instruction or who has to judge in the Supreme when he hears a political party in the government say that the coups must be pardoned? You, before there is a sentence, are already saying to them: Don't worry that, if I was a convict, I'd already take charge of pardoning you. That is what the Socialist Party has said. That's what Miquel Iceta said in the campaign, and so it was, and that's what Teresa Cunillera said, whom you've put as a government delegate in Catalonia. That's what you're negotiating. Because I don't say it, his party says it. I wish I was wrong, really. I do not like you to pardon those who may have committed a coup d'état, but what I want is a compromise, and I do put this compromise on the table, Mr Sánchez. On a day like today, the first commitment of this parliamentary group is the unwavering support for judges, prosecutors and families who are suffering the harassment and destruction of nationalists. [[Applauds]] And the second compromise - and I say it in the first person in this rostrum for it to be recorded; since you cannot say it myself - is that if the Spaniards decide that this party should govern Spain and that I should be president of this country, Mr Sánchez, we will not grant pardons if there is condemnation of the coups. We will never grant pardons. Listen to him. [[Applauds]] Because to pardon a politician and another politician for conning and pacts is to swindle justice, it is to swindle the Spanish people and it is to deceive the Spaniards. So I propose to the Socialist Party, which has already voted against that in this House, that it rectify it. You come out here and say, "I will never pardon the thugs if you condemn justice, because it is the only way to restore confidence in justice, just by respecting your work. In short, you want to continue with that majority of the motion of censure, the majority Frankenstein, the zombie majority, the majority that is already over and that is running out and extending this. But, Mr Sánchez, I have to stop at the twenty-one points of shame, at the twenty-one points of infamy, at the twenty-one points that outrage the majority of the Spanish people. Mr. Sánchez, how could you go to the Pedralbes Palace, receive a document like Mr. Torra gave you and sit at the table as if nothing had happened? How can you do that? What stomach do you have? Do you have blood? Do you have an horchata? How can you endure this document, which speaks of a Francoist Spain, which says that judges do not respect procedures and that the Civil Guard and the National Police are repressive? A president of my country, a president of the Spanish nation, receives that document and says to him: All right! We're still negotiating. But what is this? This is not the case with a president of Spain. Not from you, Mr Sánchez, which I imagine you already agree with, but from a president of our country. I want a president of our country who, when a coup player or someone who tries to strike a coup puts him in improper conditions of a democracy, gets up and says, "You either comply with the Constitution or I apply the Constitution to you." That's what we have to do! [[Applauds]] I was listening to Mrs. Montero and I didn't know if I was listening to Mrs. Montero or having a deputy from the Republican Left inside, because he has assumed the whole separatist mental framework. Catalonia is a conflict with Spain. How does Catalonia have a conflict with Spain? No, no; in Catalonia the separatists have attempted a coup d'état, have broken Catalan society, have broken constitutional rules and have generated a conflict with the justice system, because they have pending crimes in the justice system. Catalans have no conflict with the Spanish. We're the same. I am Catalan basically because I am Spanish and I was born in Barcelona and that is why I am Spanish. Are you telling me that Catalans, just because they are, have a conflict with our nation? No, don't be mistaken. Most Catalans... Yes, Mrs. Montero, you speak of ears. I don't know if you've seen eight Catalan surnames, like Pablo Iglesias, or been told by Mr.Iceta, who hasn't been quite right lately. [[Applauds]] You're talking about Catalonia's ears. He doesn't know what's going on. You say there's a conflict. Do you know what the conflict is? To have to be escorted to defend the Constitution. That's the conflict. [[The Minister of the Interior, Grand-Marlaska Gómez, speaks words that are not perceived.]] Yes, Minister, the conflict is that you paint the blinds of your house like the Jews. That's the conflict in Catalonia; that's it. [[Applauds]] Look, Mr Llarena had for months and months a death threat painted in front of his house and the Government of Spain - neither this nor the previous one - did not move a single finger to remove a threat to a judge in my country. That embarrasses me. I'm ashamed not to clean up a threat. [[Applauds]] So, minister, it's not worth the equidistance between those who made a coup d'état and the Democrats, it's not worth. Don't play me on the eastern roll of: or the separatists or Citizens and the PP. No, forgive me: either those who have made a coup d'état or those who defend the Constitution. It has nothing to do with it. You will more or less like the ideology of the voters of Citizens or the People's Party, but you cannot put in a shameful equidistance to those who have given a coup d'état and to the Democrats of this country. He can't do it as a minister of the Kingdom of Spain, he can't do it. [[Applauds]] But not only can you not do it, Minister, is that Mrs Lastra says that the 200 000 Spaniards who were in central Madrid the other day were in a'mani' facha. You keep calling everyone who carries a flag in this country, go on, who has gone to Andalusia by fable. It's been fantastically good for them. [[Applauds]] Mr. Blanco, minister of the PSOE, says there was too much facha together. Let's see if he says that when the separatists get together. Let's see if Mr. White has a nose to say the same thing when there's a separatist demonstration in which they call us wild beasts. They don't say anything. What bothers you is the flag of Spain. The minister said about the longest flag. Listen, to me the autonomous flag - which, by the way, you have used a lot in Andalusia and it seems fantastic to me; it is also the flag of many Spaniards - does not look bad to me, it seems good to me, but also the Spanish flag. Don't call us fairies for carrying a flag from our country ever again, ever again! [[Applauds]] Don't you ever call us "flags" for carrying a flag from our country again. [[The Minister of Finance, Montero Quadrado, makes negative signs]] Yeah, yeah. This week's PSOE official account: The far right represented in the Citizens' Congress and the People's Party manifests itself. But how do you have the face to say something like that in your account? How your face is! [[Rumors]] Yeah, man, you got a little bit of time, but this is gonna cost you guys a lot, it's gonna cost you a bill, 'cause you guys insult everyone who disagrees. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u95	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u96	You insult those who carry a Spanish flag, insult those who defend the Constitution in Catalonia, but the separatists are their partners. Hey, you're wrong. Those who want to liquidate Spain are up there, those who want to defend the Constitution are here. They're wrong about partners and they're gonna pay for it in the polls. That's why you don't have what you have to have to call an election: dignity. [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u97	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u98	I'll tell you one thing, Mr. Sanchez. Until now we knew that Spain had a serious problem: separatism, separatist politicians, here represented some of them, who want to liquidate our country - they say in their idea, they don't hide -, want to liquidate Spain, want to liquidate the equality between Spaniards and the unity of this country. That was a problem and it is still a problem, but we now have two problems: separatism and Sánchez in the Moncloa. The aim is therefore to cast Sánchez de la Moncloa with democratic votes, Mr Sánchez, as democrats. We want to cast him, yes, by voting, when he lets us vote. [[Rumors]] You're out of a vote, so there's not a lot of trouble either. [[Mr Sicilia Alferez: Voting here, voting here.-Applause]] You're the one who got in without a vote; you're the one who got in the Moncloa by the back door and without a vote all the Spaniards are you, and the ones we want to vote are us, that is, when you want to go to the polls. I don't know what date they're going to set, whether they're going to filter it out or deny it, but in any case, call elections. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u99	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u100	With the no to these budgets we are also defending that there is no future alliance between Mr Sánchez - sanchismo -, the nationalists and the populists in the same government. Mr Iglesias said today, and it is legitimate for him to say so, that he wants to form a government with Mr Sánchez. Therefore, what we are playing here today is not just whether or not budgets are going to come out, but whether a future majority is set up on the basis of privileges, covenants and pardons. Don't let Mr. Sanchez send us away. We are thought to be talking about budgets; if they have not spoken almost about budgets. We're talking about Spain. We are talking about what you are negotiating not for today, to have seats of the separatist and populist parties and to have a parliamentary majority. Why do you have to go to the polls? To kick Sánchez out. Why do you have to go massively? To be more those who defend the Constitution than those who are willing to agree with the separatists and the populists. This is the basis of what we are discussing today. If we stop Sanchez in these budgets, he's out of gas. And if you run out of gas, this is your political will. So I appeal to the Spaniards who are watching us continue to press democratically, calling for elections, on the networks, on the street, in Parliament, in the institutions, voting, of course, voting, as democrats. We want to vote, Mr Sánchez, stop hiding the ballot boxes. We are playing with the future of our country. Sanchez has a plan, which is to continue to rule with separatists and populists four more years, and we have another plan. Our plan is precisely to reach agreements between constitutionalists and not with those who want to liquidate this country. And that's why we, what we want... [[Several Members: With Vox]] You're very nervous. They have little left; government, I mean. Spain is so strong, Mr Sánchez, that it will overcome separatism and you in Moncloa. Spain is a very strong country. We'll get over them and we'll get over them by voting. But we must also overcome the bipartisanism of forty years. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] I heard a debate here and it was a fiction. Yeah, it was a fiction. You guys just fight here. Look, the last time we saw Mr. Married and Mr. Sánchez fight here, the next day the judges of the General Council of the Judiciary agreed. [[Applauds]] You set up a number here of 'we will never speak again; we are no longer best friends' and the next day we found out that the Judicial Power was being distributed. The judicial power of this country is strong despite you; in spite of you the judges and prosecutors continue to do their work, but not for you. You've tried to bake and hand them over to chrome until you got caught with the wasap and the little message. You were sharing justice, and I want a country where justice is not shared between reds, blues, oranges or purples. I want a country where judges choose judges; and I want an electoral system with open lists, which you have not allowed for forty years; and I want an educational pact in this country, which you have been in charge of invigorating for forty years; and I want to reform the public administration or suppress those who duplicate the public administration and you have not allowed it. Therefore, not only must we overcome sanchismo, we must overcome bipartisanism, we must open a new era in Spain. [[Applauds]] We must lead a new stage where bipartisanism can no longer paste all these things, where it cannot block the reforms of this country. [[Rumors.-Mr.Sicilia Alferez utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u101	Mr. Sicily.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u102	Mr. Sánchez is talking all day about Franco and Mr. Married Abortion. Hey, can you guys come to the 21st century? Can you go back to the 21st century to talk about the future of Spain? [[Applauds]] Let me tell you, uncritically and lovingly, that you are very tired. They're very tired. Franco and abortion. Oh, my God! How long has it been since Franco and the Abortion Act 1985? He's over it already! That Spain is in something else! That we're in Europe in 2019, for God's sake! Let's talk about education, let's talk about the labour market - which is a disaster that you left behind - let's talk about public administration reforms. But you, every time you get a problem or talk about Franco or talk about abortion. Hey, what if we talk about the future of Spain? I am ready to talk about the future of Spain and to reach agreements for the future of Spain, but do not take me to the last century. Many of us were born in democracy already and with the Constitution and we think it is very old to talk about debates of the last century. I know that bipartisanism is nostalgic from the 20th century because it was better for them, but the Spaniards didn't do so well when you've been settled for so many years. So I propose to open a new stage, a new stage in which the judges do not part, in which we do not return to the past, in which we look to the future and, above all, in which there are no ideological trenches, which are also very tired with the left and the right. How old to speak of the left and the right, please! And you're still trying to pretend that all the Spaniards are wearing a sticker on the back: you're on the left and you're on the right and we have to fight. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. All Spaniards are not listed with the labels of the last century or, of course, with those of the French Revolution. We have evolved and in the 21st century the only label is whether you are with an open society or with a closed society, whether you are in favour of free trade or against free trade, whether you are in favour of reforms in the public administration or of shielding the current obsolete system, whether you want a flexible labour market or an obsolete labour market, whether you want an education in the knowledge economy or whether you want to continue with the patches of recent years. I suggest we move on. I know I will not succeed because I believe that the PP and the PSOE, the PSOE and the Popular Party are interested in being in the 20th century and in the ideological trench, but I appeal to the third Spain. I appeal to all those Spaniards who are fed up with the two Spains, I appeal to all those who want to join in spite of our differences, I appeal to those who want to go and vote not to build another trench on the right or on the left, but to finally dissolve the trenches of this country. I appeal to all these people to go vote in the polls. So, Mr. Sanchez, you should call an election. And you, Mr. Married, have said some things I can agree with. You said that you would have to penalize a referendum to destroy a country, but I make it just a small shade: you ruled five years with absolute majority and didn't touch a coma. [[Applauds]] You spoke of 155 as if you had just landed the People's Party, as if it were new, but Mr. Rajoy told me to the face that he had agreed with Mr. Sánchez to lift 155. I told him I wanted him to follow 155 and he said to me, "No; I have agreed with the PSOE to raise 155. That is what the People's Party has done this past year; nor are we that far off. Or pardons. You now say that we must ban pardons. Well, they say it in the opposition, but when they've ruled by absolute majority, they haven't changed a coma. Therefore, I also ask the People's Party to come out of that bipartisan logic and say everything that it has not done and help us to do it to others that we do want to do it. We will have to add constitutionalist parties in the future, for sure, but we have to be brave. He said married that with bipartisanism he lived better. No, most Spaniards want to choose, they want to vote, they want to have choices, and bipartisanism is not part of the solution, it has been part of the problem. Pacting in the Majestic with the separatists wasn't a good idea, pacting the Socialist Party tripartite and the PSC wasn't a good idea either. We have therefore come this far because the Socialist Party and the People's Party have been making permanent concessions to nationalism, and we propose to put an end to that logic and reach agreements between which, with differences, we defend the Spanish Constitution. I'm done, President. It's time to go to the polls. Mr. Rajoy should have called elections and wouldn't call them. Mr Sánchez arrived in Moncloa precisely because there were no elections, because that decision was not made, and Mr Sánchez cheated on us, said he was going to call them and not call them. So we're at a time when most Spaniards want to go vote, but the PP first and the PSOE then don't leave them. What exactly are you afraid of? What has changed the sociological majority of the last four years? I'm sure. There are parties that we have entered the House, the situation is different, Spain is different, Europe is different... Let's vote. Mr Sánchez, end the Frankenstein Government, do not be afraid of the Spanish people. The Spanish people have the right to elect a president, a parliamentary majority, a government. I propose that it be a constitutionalist government and not a Frankenstein government; you propose a Frankenstein government. I propose to add among those who defend the Constitution; you, to add with the separatists and with Podemos. In any case, the best way to resolve our differences is through the ballot box. So I hope that the minister or yourself today, if these budgets do not come out tomorrow, will set a date and an hour and we will vote. The best way not to be wrong is to decide at the polls. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the Members of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u103	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u104	Thank you very much, Madam President. And you came to the gallery to talk about budgets, didn't you, Mr. Married? [[Protests]] Of course, that's what we've seen, talking about budgets. Look at you, Mr. Married... [[Rumors.-Protests]] I'm sorry, Mr. Rivera; I'm sorry. I had the chip from the previous intervention, and there are times when you don't really know what you're doing. But I'm sorry, I didn't want to call you by that last name. Mr. Rivera, do you really represent the new policy here? Do you think that the speech you made here this afternoon is a speech of new politics? Mr. Married, you've got the worst of old politics. [[rumors]] Mr. Rivera, I'm sorry again. You, Mr Rivera, are left with the worst of old politics; you are living on the back of the rift, on the back of confrontation, of confrontation, but do you know what is worse, Mr Rivera? That you are constantly announcing false news that is never being fulfilled, and when it is not being fulfilled, as is the case today when you advocated that there were hidden covenants from which concessions had been made that led the independenceists to support this budget, when that is not being fulfilled, do you know what you are doing? A flight forward, and now you want to talk about the pardons, and now you want to talk about the elections and everything other than unmasking that you do politics from the lie. [[Applauds]] That's the truth, Mr. Married. [[Rumors]] You say that this government marks an equidistance because it speaks of each other. No, Your Honor, this government is saying in this House that both of you are living on the brink of confrontation and that I have serious doubts that both of you are not permanently interested in continuing in that spiral of confrontation. Or are you interested in dialogue? Have you raised a single element for dialogue? No, you have not proposed any, Mr Rivera; Mrs Arrimadas has not proposed any solution for Catalonia; there has been no proposal from Citizens to try to overcome this and establish a dialogue. You do not support more than a 155 sine die, which is what you have done, which is little less than missing the Constitution, Mr Rivera, because you know that an intervention of autonomy without end means going against the constitutional spirit. But do you know the worst thing you reflect every time you speak, Mr. Rivera? That you have anxiety about being president and getting to the Moncloa. You, who accuse President Sánchez of staying in Moncloa, the only thing that shows up is anxiety about trying to get elections to see if you get to Moncloa from this one. [[Applauds]] That's what you always have in your speech, Mr. Married. [[Protests.-Mr. Casado Blanco utters words that are not perceived]] Every time you get up here... You're right, I'm sorry, Mr. Rivera, I hope I'm not wrong anymore. Mr. Rivera, every time you come up here, you talk permanently about the call for elections, about the illegitimate president... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u105	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u106	... and really lacks respect for the Constitution and the President. You have no interest, Your Honor, in discussing the budgets or what they represent. They have been in the same canteen for months and crossing the red lines of that new policy that you say you are or that you say you are doing, but which means the worst of old policy. Because you misguided, manipulated the arguments with the only eagerness that I said to you, which is to become president. But don't worry, Your Honor, I also told Mr. Casado before, when the elections are called, people will be able to vote for those who understand that they are actually dealing with their problems, those who understand that they are really here to solve and not to torpedo and block, those who defend the stability of the country, those who want to encourage coexistence, those who respect the Constitution in its entirety and not as you, Your Honor, who manipulates it and uses it only when you are interested in it. Mr. Rivera, do you prefer that Catalonia's policy and situation remain blocked? Do you prefer this to be the only element that presides over Spanish politics? No, no, Have you made this, Your Honor, the only speech we really hear from Citizens and, therefore, now it turns out that it is you who needs the Independenceists? Do you need the independenceists to continue to hold a speech that is monocolored about Catalonia? Because I do not listen to you, Your Honor, talking about the improvement of citizens, I do not listen to you whether or not you agree with the items of increase in social spending. I can only hear you referring to the situation in Catalonia and, therefore, it seems to me, Your Honor, that you do not have any viable solution and that what interests you is precisely to stir up the anti-independence discourse. Because what brings the most solution, Your Honor, the match or the dialogue? What brings the most solution to the situation you describe that you live in Catalonia and that I know too? Because not only do those who live in Catalonia know him. But what is the solution? 155 perpetual? Take away their autonomy? Don't you realize that victory-lost dichotomy only leads to disaster, Your Honor? I do not hear you or Mrs Arrimada say what the real solution you are proposing for Catalonia is. Apply 155? Is that your solution? Ah, that's not just your solution! [[Mr. Rivera Díaz speaks words that are not perceived]] Well, I haven't heard from you what happens the day after the application of 155. I have not heard at all that you aspire to have a dialogue that promotes coexistence within and outside Catalonia; you live on the shoulders, like the People's Party, of the rift and the confrontation. [[Applauds]] On the contrary, I wonder, Mr Rivera, how the majority force in Catalonia in the last elections says no to budgets that are good for Catalonia. I do not understand how you say no to a budget that allows the revaluation of pensions, the recovery of the unemployment benefit, the recovery of the contribution to the carers, the increase of the scholarships. How will Mrs Arrimadas explain in Catalonia the no to a budget that provides 2200 million euros for Catalonia? How are you going to explain that the main political force, which won the last elections, does not want more resources for Catalonia, does not want more investment, does not want more transfers of deliveries to account or does not want it to comply with the ruling that the courts have been making? You will have to explain it, Mr Rivera, clearly. Mr. Rivera, you're no longer patriotic for shouting higher alive Spain or waving a flag, which can be a bigger flag. It's not you who distributes the Spanish card, I don't know if you know it. He is not the owner of the Constitution, he is not the owner of constitutionalism and, in fact, he has transformed his struggle against independence into a kind of new flag patriotism, a sort of new nationalism. That's how I see it and that's how I think many citizens perceive it, because anything other than thinking like you're against it. You understand the plurality of the country as an obstacle, not as a reality, not as a wealth, not as a diversity. You want to deny the plural reality that we have in this country among its nationalities and regions. But I want you to know - because you have missed the truth - that the PSOE has a long history in constitutionalism; obviously, a much longer trajectory than you have. So don't try to distort history because your defence of the Constitution is still to be seen, that of this party we have been demonstrating, Your Honor, over the past forty years. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, this is a budget without hidden pacts, which is what you have been trying to move for two months. It is a budget with which Catalonia is given nothing that is not homologable to other autonomous communities. But we have reached such an absurd point in the dialogue, Your Honor, that it is considered treacherous to dialogue with democratically elected politicians. You consider that a betrayal. And, Your Honor, you who are of the new policy, you who stand up like a fresh air within politics, you should know that dialogue is never a humiliation, Mr Rivera. Is it a humiliation for you to reach agreements and dialogue? To admit that, Mr Rivera, is to renounce democracy because the history of democracy is a history of dialogue, it is a history of alliances, it is a history of agreements, it is a history of pacts. [[Applauds]] And we have already said as active and passive that it was a lie what you were moving to right and wrong in relation to these budgets carrying a vote from the independence groups because you had yielded to some pressure or blackmail. You know the position of the Government with regard to Catalonia, you know it well, you know the position when it was in the opposition and you know it now, when the Socialist Party is in the Government, and you know that we do not accept blackmail from anyone, nor will we consent to the right of self-determination being placed on the agenda. You know that, but despite that, you are going to a demonstration also convened by the People's Party and with those VOX partners with whom you are ruling in Andalusia and you, Mr Rivera, knew perfectly well that the manifesto was a lie. You knew it perfectly well, to such an extent that even a spokesman for the People's Party said yesterday that some dose of veracity did seem to have the manifesto. You have tried to get citizens out on the street under a manifesto that is a lie. Is that the new policy, Mr. Married, that you are trying to teach here? [[Protests.-Laughter.]] Because we haven't moved from our position since the first day, of course not. Do you know why, Mr. Married? [[Protests.-Mr.Cantó García del Moral: The joke is already good. The comedy club is getting a little tired.]] Because people are sick of it.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u107	Quiet. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u108	Mr. Rivera, because people are sick of it. [[Mr.Cantó García del Moral: All right!]] Yes, it's true, Mr. Cantó, you're sick of so much confrontation, you're sick of all those speeches that you raise so much, you're sick of running forward. People want us to talk about pensions today. Mr. Rivera, do you or do you not agree to raise the pensions? Do you or do you not agree to raise the dependency games? Do you want public services of excellence or not? Do you want the children out of poverty or not? Do you want women to have more resources to fight gender-based violence or not? Do you agree with that spending policy or not, Mr. Rivera? Because for me it's not a joke, because the reality of the day-to-day lives of women and many people in this country has no grace whatsoever. You'll see. The Spanish Government, Mr Rivera, is also of Catalonia and we cannot and do not want to disagree with the problems of Catalans and Catalans. [[applause]] We do not believe in the burning land policy that you practice, lordships of Citizens. We want to convince Catalans and Catalans who aspire to independence that their future is better by staying in Spain. Is it wrong that with these General State Budgets the state has more visibility in Catalonia? Mr. Rivera, wasn't that what it was about, that the state had greater visibility in Catalonia? Is it not a question of making more state from Catalonia and Catalonia, Mr Rivera, that this budget makes money for investments, for the neighbourhoods in Catalonia, for increasing transfers to public services, for trying to increase pensions and the minimum wage? If not, what is your proposal to make Spain more visible within Catalonia? Is it wrong for the state to invest more than EUR 2 billion in Catalonia? Does that sound bad to Mrs. Arrimadas, Mr. Rivera? Do you prefer Spain to turn its back on Catalonia? No, what you do is just a demagogic speech that doesn't lead anywhere, just trying to pose that people continue to live out of the conflict and continue to live out of the rift. We comply with the laws, Mr. Rivera, and we will continue to comply, despite whomever you weigh. The budgets, you yourself have been able to check, are not currency in exchange for anything. It has been two months since saying that these budgets were going to be supported by pacts that had been made under the table, but they are good budgets for Catalonia because they are also good budgets for Spain. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, these budgets have a different view of the state of autonomy. You do not understand, it seems, the territorial model that comes in the Constitution; you do not seem to understand what the plurality, diversity and guarantee of equal rights of all Spaniards consists in because you prefer to embolden the discourse of equality, of unity, in order to camouflage your idea of re-centralisation of competences, Your Honor. You have made proposals over the last few months in the direction of re-centralizing competences and that, Your Honor, in the current constitutional state has no place, it is not possible, it is not an element on which we can support ourselves or move forward. But, Mr Rivera, really what you haven't digested at all isn't even this, is the motion of censure. You have not digested the motion of censure. Mr. Rivera calls the president every day illegitimate president. [[Mr Rivera Díaz and several Members of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group make negative gestures]] Yes, Mr. Rivera, I've listened to you. You, Mr. Rivera, call the president of the illegitimate president government. [[Rumors]] The members of his party to the president and the government call it illegitimate government. Just why, Mr. Rivera? Because you want elections to be called. [[Several Members of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group: Yes]] Yeah, sure, if I know. He's loved it since day one. You know why? Because you can be anxious about being president of the government, you can be personally ambitious about being president of the government because you don't have any kind of project to change this country. This is the reality, Mr. Rivera. If not, how do you take a picture with the extreme right? In case you haven't listened to me, Mr. Rivera, because I think you were talking, I'm telling you, if not, why do you take a picture with the extreme right? [[Rumors]] You came to politics to bring freshness, you came to politics to try to set out a different course, you said to deal with citizens' problems, but you starred last weekend, Mr Rivera - and I know you start talking because you don't want me to talk about this - a photo that is the picture of shame. Sounds like a embarrassing picture to me. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u109	Quiet. [[The Rumors Continue]] Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u110	And I find it embarrassing that Citizens, in order to continue living on the back of the rift, are being held by an ultra-right party. Mr. Rivera, weren't you so Macron? Have you seen that Mr. Macron is flirting or is he making a deal with the far right at some point, Mr. Rivera? I don't think so. Have you seen that Macron has raised the interprofessional minimum wage, Mr. Rivera? You've raised the interprofessional minimum wage, and you'll be fine, won't you? Look how Mr. Garicano and Mr. Valls didn't go up to the picture to figure next to the far right. [[Applauds]] They didn't go up, you went up. That is why I am telling you that we will continue to develop the road map for this country, of course we will continue to develop it! Mr Rivera, I have been talking to your political formation for three budgets. That's right. I have reached agreements with your political formation since my previous responsibility during three budgets and together we signed budgets that made the welfare state compatible with economic growth. By the way, Mr Rivera, you did not have to look at the latest figures on the risk premium and you did not have to look at what the reception of the markets for indebtedness has been like. Of course the markets believe in Spain, which you do not do. Markets do believe in Spain. As I was saying, I have signed with you - with your political formation in Andalusia - three budgets and then, Your Honor, you did not propose that we were irresponsible in doing the public accounts nor did you propose that the budgets were a lie, nor did you do all that stuff you have tried to do to discredit today. Because, Your Honor, we have met the objective of stability. I see you don't listen to me; when you don't care about the part I tell you, you don't listen to me anymore, but I'm going to keep telling you, see if at some point you can hear me. We have complied, Your Honor, with our European partners, and it is a lie that Europe has said that the budget should be withdrawn; it is a lie. And, Mr Rivera, did you last year read the reports of the AIReF, the reports of the Bank of Spain, the reports of the European Commission on the budget? Do you know what they were saying, Mr. Rivera? That the budget was going to fail to meet the deficit target and that it was going to go to 2.7%. Have you said in this rostrum that the budgets you voted met the deficit? Mr Rivera, the deficit target for Spain for 2018 is going to be 2.7, when the forecast was 2.3. How did they meet the forecast and deficit targets? What do you mean, they did it? All international agencies told them so. [[Applauds]] Moreover, the budgets that came out of this Parliament and that you voted on were budgets that did not comply with the expenditure rule. The budgets that you now believe are the macro-budgets did not comply with the spending rule, Mr Rivera, and I would like you to look at it. You skipped the spending rule from the previous budget. You said in the article that there were a number of measures that did not correspond to expenditure, and I'm talking about pensions, I'm talking about the inter-island transport subsidy; those issues that you put in the budgets had no expenditure to accompany them. And are you going to talk about these budgets being fake or not being realistic budgets? Do you know the income forecast you made last year by removing the effect of VAT? [[Applauds.-Mr. Rivera Díaz: False]] 7.1% was the forecast for income growth. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: False]] What do you mean it's fake, if the data is there? Do you know the revenue forecast made by this government with increased taxation and new tax figures, Mr Rivera? Of 7,3 %, with a nominal GDP higher than the previous year. What do you mean your income forecast was prudent and this government's is not rigorous? You, with tax rebate, 7.1; we, with tax hike, 7.3. What do you mean, it's not rigorous, Mr. Rivera? [[Applauds]] These budgets, however heavy they may be, have the backing of the European Commission, which has said that the budgets are coming out, at no time have we been asked to withdraw them. AIReF has also endorsed the macroeconomic forecasts of these budgets as prudent. By the way, Your Honor, even twice they have blocked the path of the deficit to allow the reform of the Budget Stability Act. Last year you were tired of talking about the goodness of a budget that did not comply with the elementary rules of budgeting, such as respect for the non-financial spending limit. But, of course, at that time, Your Honor, you didn't care because you cared about other issues much more acutely. Are you talking about diesel, Mr. Rivera? Did the members of your party explain to you that you voted last year in favour of the rise of fuels in 2019? Did you vote in favour of raising petrol and diesel for all Spaniards throughout 2019, Your Honor? Is that tax hack to the middle class or when it comes to you isn't tax hack to the middle class? [[Applauds]] These budgets are more realistic than those you signed with the People's Party, and here are the facts that can make it clear. He did not say that today, but we have heard him talk earlier about the accounting trick with regard to VAT. And you have said: Does this government believe that the years are thirteen months old? You think people are dumb, Mr. Rivera? You, when you talk about something that means giving back to the autonomous communities EUR 25 billion that had been taken away by a change in the information system, can you talk about a year of thirteen months of VAT? Can you speak with so little rigour about how public accounts are budgeted and how autonomous communities are financed? What do you propose, Mr Rivera, that, since these budgets do not come out, we ask the Autonomous Communities, Andalusia - which you govern - to withdraw EUR 400 million from your budget? Is that what you want? Do you want to tell Andalusia to withdraw 900 million that are expected to increase further for the budgets? And I say Andalusia because that's where you rule; as far as I know, at this moment you rule in Andalusia, I think that in the rest of the autonomous communities you still don't rule. It might seem good to you that transfers should be increased on account, that investment should be increased, that the welfare state that the autonomous communities have been forced to develop should be increased. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, from axe to middle class nothing. Do you know anything else you haven't liked these last few days? The pact with autonomous ministers Valerio. Mr. Rivera didn't like that pact. Mr Rivera, this government, which has the obligation of social dialogue, has reached an agreement with the self-employed and self-employed associations and what it has put forward are better social benefits for self-employed people who are unemployed or in sick situations, that is what it has done. Nor do you agree with the policy of self-government even though the associations have proposed it? It is that you speak as if the autonomous people - I think you have used that expression - had a blast here, and it is a lie, Mr Rivera, that we are going to fulfil the pact that we have reached with the autonomous people and that we are going to continue the dialogue so that the Special System of Self-Employers will actually allow us to quote for what the autonomous people really win. In addition, we have reduced corporation tax on small and medium-sized enterprises by 2 points. Does Mr. Rivera share the corporate tax rebate? It does not seem good to lower taxes on businesses in this country either. I'm done, Your Honor. You permanently link the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage with unemployment knowing that there is no argument, no scientific evidence to maintain that figure, on the contrary, each and every country in our environment - for example, now Mr Macron has done so - when they have had to reactivate the economy they have raised the interprofessional minimum wage. You know that the rise of the minimum wage in the United States in 2016 has not produced any kind of unemployment. And also in Germany, France, Italy, etc. Well, I see you're not interested in all those elements. Mr. Rivera, I'm going to make a clear appeal to you. First of all, calm down, because it seems to me that anxiety is not a good partner to be in politics. That is why I would ask you to calm down and not be so anxious about the election call, which is the exclusive competence of the president. And don't worry, Mr Rivera, if you're not going to be president in the next legislature either, don't be so hasty, just let the country move forward, we can regain rights, we can show that another economic policy is possible and we can continue to redistribute wealth, Mr Rivera, which is something you never like to talk about, you just like to talk about those issues that, in your opinion, may raise some kind of speech in populist terms and yet you really don't want to talk about citizens' problems. I would like in this second speech, Mr Rivera, if you have it well, after having heard in the first one the discovery and nakedness of all the lies that you have said until you come to this budget debate, you will at least talk about pensions, young people, women and everything that allows us to build a country, to be a country and to make us a more just and important society. That's what I thought was the new policy, not that old policy exercise, which I think has made the worst of it. Take note. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u112	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, you don't know what we stand for those of us who live in Catalonia and I'm going to ask you to withdraw some of the words you said here. You said we live very well in confrontation. Look, my mom turns 60 today. He must have just finished closing his business, which takes ten hours to work. Do you know what's inside the store? A painting cube. Do you know why my mother has a paint cube in the store? Because every two or three weeks they paint yellow ties on their door. That's what the Nazis did to the Jews. That's what they do with our families. [[Prolonged applause of the Members of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group]] And I have nothing else to say to you. Mr Borrell, who is not from my party, deserves all due respect because he knows what I'm talking about. Now I'm going to address Mr. Sanchez. Mr. Sanchez, does Mr. Alfonso Guerra sound like you? Is that a facsimile? Is he a fascist? Is that the extreme right? Or is he one of the founding fathers of the Constitution, of the Transition, of the Socialist Party? Isn't that right? I respect you very much, but I don't know if you respect Alfonso Guerra as much as you deserve. Mr. Alfonso Guerra, this week - by the way, he gave a recital here in Congress - was saying to you, not to me: Is there anyone in my party who understands that you can't sit at a table negotiating inexhaustible conditions with the thugs? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Mr. Alfonso Guerra, Mrs. Lastra, not the cool faces, which you say in the tweets. Mr. Alfonso Guerra deserves all my respect. So let's see if you listen more to those who defended that Socialist Party for so many years and listen less to Mrs Lastra. [[Applauds]] Now everyone who disagrees with Sánchez is a fascist: Mr Guerra, Mr González, those who have been campaigning in the PSOE and those who are no longer there. Everyone. Is it not that you are becoming more and more pompous, more radical and more comfortable with the separatists? Have you not seen that you are going in the opposite direction? Have you not read the Statute of Andalusia? We are talking about the autonomous model, which I defend because I believe in equality, and not to generate privileges; that is why we are the only party that votes against the coupon, Minister, when you vote in favour of the coupon. [[Applauds]] Let this government not speak to me of rigor. The minister has calculated 13 months of VAT instead of 12 months. Thirteen months, to calculate the income. And Mrs. Montero tells us about rigor. It's amazing. [[Applauds]] I've heard that from Chiqui, 12 billion is nothing, but in 13 months... It's twelve, minister, twelve. So don't talk to us about rigor, because you have a hole of 10.6 billion, and you're counting thirteen months to cheat. [[Applauds]] Your party, Mr Sánchez, has gone from being a constitutionalist party to surrounding the Andalusian Parliament with buses. That is what Mr Sánchez's evolution in the Socialist Party has done. [[Applauds]] From the fundamental party for the transition, from the party of Alfonso Guerra, to the party that surrounds with buses, as if it were Podemos, the Andalusian Parliament because it does not accept the result of the elections. That's what you're left for, Mr. Sanchez. [[Mr President of the Government, Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejon, spoke words that were not perceived.]] You laugh, which goes for years, because in Andalusia your autonomous model has been that of the EREs. That has been his autonomous model for Andalusia. And I tell you one thing: Liberals don't surround Parliaments when we don't like the result, we respect, we respect. Socialists don't know what they're doing, liberals respect. Mr Sánchez laughs at those who speak out, laughs at those who win the elections in Andalusia, laughs at everyone. Well, it doesn't make us any fun, Mr. Sanchez. [[Mr. President of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejon: What a level!]] What we would like to do is vote. Mrs Montero, you have caught me: yes, I am running for election to be President of the Government. [[Applauds]] You caught me with the ice cream cart, it's a lynx. Now we have to apologize to the Socialist Party for running for election. And the next thing is to ask permission: is it okay for you that I introduce myself to the President of the Government or is it wrong for you? [[Applauds]] I'll ask your permission. But, yes, there is a difference, Mrs Montero, Mr Sánchez, and it is that I want to be President of the Government, but not with the Republican Left. I want to be president of the government, but let the Spaniards choose me, not the Republican Left, of course. [[Applauds.-Protests]] We have limited time in the opposition, but I tell you one thing, Mr Sánchez, call elections, put the ballot box. Don't be anxious about the ballot boxes, they seem to run away from them. They are a square thing, of methacrylate, you put on a role and you count the votes. That's democracy, so you can do it with Bildu... Look, before Mrs. Montero said she was ashamed of what, but what I'm ashamed of is that her political leaders toast with Otegui, which makes me ashamed. [[Applauds]] Dialogue is practiced with those who respect the rules of the game, dialogue is practiced among those who respect the Constitution, but dialogue with those who want to liquidate it, by force, by jumping the laws, is impossible. Therefore, let us not waste time with those who will never be happy. Let's respect them. They have a parliamentary group or two, they have the right to stand for election. In France or Germany there are no parliamentary groups in the House; in other countries there is a threshold of 5% or 3%, but there is no such threshold here. We are such democrats in Spain: we are so democrats that those who give coups d'état are allowed to have parliamentary groups in this House, but one thing is that they have parliamentary groups and another is that they do the national policy of this country. That's what we'll never do. So, Mr. Sanchez, if you decide to call an election, we'll see you at the polls. I say to you, if we govern this country we will do it by listening to everyone, also to many socialist voters because, as has happened in Andalusia - Mrs Montero knows - 95 000 Socialist Party voters have gone, do you know where? Citizens. [[Rumors.-A lady deputy: Vox!]] Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u113	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u114	Thank you, President. I see that you were coming to talk about budgets, Mr Rivera, especially in this second intervention. [[Applauds]] Furthermore, you can address me because I am the one who is conducting this debate and I will therefore try to give you an answer to the questions you have raised to Mr Sánchez. [[Rumors]] Of course, Your Honor, we all have an idea, whether we live in Catalonia or not, of the degree of crispness that is lived there, of course it is. It is not necessary to live in Catalonia to know that degree of crispness and, therefore, this Government is calling for dialogue, of course, precisely because of that. The problem is when some political forces believe that they are going to increase the number of votes living on the back of the confrontation and the rift, feeding, feeding, as Mr Rajoy - Mr Rivera has to look at it - to multiply the number of people who aspire to independence. [[Rumors.- Mr. Rivera Díaz and Mr. Cantó García del Moral utter words that are not perceived by making negative gestures]] That is the wrong tactic and strategy, from my point of view. In democracy we must respect opinions, Mr Rivera, and we must not box people: if you are with me you are a constitutionalist and if you do not think as I am not, because that is to restrict the constitutional framework. Your Honor, what I want to say to you is that with your attitude and with the attitude of the People's Party and of Vox, what you are doing is to encourage Catalans who do not wish to abandon this confrontation and continue to aspire to independence because the image you are projecting from Catalonia is an image, Your Honor, which is regrettable with regard to the everyday issues and problems of the citizens of Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Mr Rivera, I am very sorry about the events you have mentioned with regard to your mother, but I would also have liked to have brought to this rostrum what the members of the Socialist Party in Catalonia are suffering from. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: I said it, I said it.- Mrs. Rodríguez Hernández, Mrs. Melisa: Of course we have said it here.]] Of course, or what the ministers of this government who also live in Catalonia are suffering. [[Protests.-Mr. Girauta Vidal and Mr. Gutiérrez Vivas: That we have said]] Of course I would have liked that instead of becoming the victim, you would have recognized all the people who are the object of the aggressions in Catalonia. [[protests]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u115	Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u116	Or is it that nothing else matters what happens to you? [[Greetings.-Protests.-Mr. Rivera Díaz: What a shame]] Mr. Rivera, does it matter what happens to you? Does it not matter what happens to the rest of the citizens of Catalonia, to whom the walls are being painted and who are being threatened, insulted? [[Mr. Gómez Balsera utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u117	Silence, silence. Mr. Gomez. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u118	They're being threatened, insulted. I very much regret your situation, Mr Rivera, I regret the situation of your family and I regret the situation of Mrs Arrimadas, but could you also regret the situation of all the members of the Socialist Party? Or do you only regret yours? [[Rumors.-Mr. Rivera Díaz: We have said it many times]] So let's try, let's try, even though everyone trusts me from the bank, let's try, ladies and gentlemen, to continue helping to relax the degree of the rift, the degree of the debate and come from where they come from, Mr Rivera, come from, any act of violence, any act of aggression, any act of insults must be condemned by everyone, come from where they come from and that's very important. [[rumors]] [[Mr. Cantó García del Moral: Important, yes.-Mr. Gutiérrez Vivas: They always come from the same place.-Mr. Villegas Pérez: From your partners]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u119	Quiet. I beg you, ladies and gentlemen, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u120	I will try to continue, ladies and gentlemen, but in the end, you should also here in this room lower the tone of chryspation and the tone of tension. Mr Rivera, from my point of view, which is as respectable as yours, you are helping to increase the rift in Catalonia; it is my opinion, Mr Rivera, that you have to respect it just as I am respecting yours. I believe that you, with the speech, with your attitudes, with the kind of sophlama that you usually pose with regard to Catalonia, are collaborating in increasing tension and confrontation in Spain and Catalonia. And if not, Mr Rivera, tell me what you were doing under the cover of a manifesto that was a lie, where it was said that Mr Sánchez had accepted twenty-one points from Mr Torra that in no case, under any circumstances, had they been accepted; moreover, it had not even been taken into consideration. And that has been said by this government since the first day. [[Applauds]] And you're still wrong to be installed in that lie and summon the citizens under that lie! Who contributes to increasing this climate of chryspation? Your Honor, are you going to talk about radicalism here too in this rostrum? Are you going to talk about Andalusia and radicalism? Mr. Rivera, are you going to pursue that strategy of pacts with the far right of this country, with Vox? [[Mr. Del Campo Estaún: What about the staves?]] Is that what you present to the citizens as a new policy, the fact of allying with an ultra-right force, alongside also members of the People's Party? Because if that is your government program it would be good for you to say so, it would be good for you to explain it to all the Spaniards and, therefore, for you to comment on what you think of historical memory, what you think of equality, what you think of immigrants, what you think of women, what you think of all those issues. Indeed, with regard to women, Mr Rivera, you too make proposals with regard to women, such as the rental belly and other issues that are women's use. I will tell you something that you have said in this rostrum and that you have said without blushing: do you believe, Mr Rivera, that the Basque Concert is constitutional? Because I've heard you talking about the coupon, I hear you talking permanently... [[Rumors.-Mr Agirretxea Urresti speaks words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u121	Wait a minute, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, silence, please, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u122	Thank you, Madam President. I'm telling you, Mr. Rivera, do you agree with the Basque Concert? Because I don't listen to you but talk about the coupon, the privileges of the Basque Country. Do you believe in the Basque concert or are you against that article of the Constitution? [[Mr Cantó García del Moral and Mr Agirretxea Urresti speak words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u123	Mr. Singing, please, Mr. Singing. It's just that I'm listening to everyone they say. It's just that you don't know that from here you hear everything you say. I have heard some things I prefer not to appear in the Journal of Sessions, please! I am addressing you, Mr. Singing, because you have a voice that is heard clearly. [[Rumors]] There are others who are also heard clearly, but please, I ask for silence. Will it be that much to ask? Will it be that much to ask for silence?
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u124	Thank you, Madam President, because I hear you too. I will repeat again, Mr Rivera: do you believe in the Basque Concert? Do you believe in that article of the Constitution or that you don't like it and leave it out? Because I hear you talking about the coupon permanently. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz makes negative gestures]] Yes, you talk about that and the privileges of the Basque Country. Therefore, do you not share the spirit of the Constitution with regard to the Basque Country? [[Consent of several Members of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group]] Oh, that's a PNV thing or what are you trying to say to me? [[Mr. Rivera Díaz makes negative gestures]] No, it's just that you guys are talking here about the Basque Concert too. Do you know why, Mr. Rivera? Because they also want to confront the Basque Country. Because you are doing politics from the territorial confrontation. [[Applauds]] Even in that, which was a constitutional consensus - in case this word doesn't ring a bell, constitutional consensus - you are all day for the rest of Spain saying what barbarity the Basque Concert exists. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: Susana Díaz too]] I don't care what they call it. [[Rumors]] They call it a coupon. If anything, if it is the figure itself that reflects our Constitution. Because, Mr Rivera, the Constitution is not like a margarita that one takes a petal and throws it, the other I take it and this I throw it; the Constitution is shared from the a to the zeta and, if the Constitution is shared, it is shared that Mr Sánchez is legitimately elected by a motion of censure and it is shared that the Basque Country has a singular concert as set out in the Constitution. [[Applauds]] The opposite is to deny the Constitution. [[Applauds]] You who are called constitutionalists are even allowed the luxury of sometimes removing the Socialist Party from the so-called constitutionalist parties. You, Mr. Rivera, say it seems like an accounting trick 13 months of VAT and I'm going to ask you the question. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz pronounces words that are not perceived]] Year 2017, is not an accounting trick eleven months of VAT? There are thirteen months of VAT because in 2017 there were eleven months. Doesn't that sound like an accounting trick to you? When it comes to taking money from the autonomous communities, it is not an accounting trick; when it comes to returning what belongs to the autonomous communities it is an accounting trick. Who believes this, Mr. Rivera? Of course we're going to fix the problem you also caused! Because in 2017 it only reached the autonomous communities eleven months of VAT and, therefore, this government to give them those 25 billion has made a change in the information system to re-produce that amount of resources that they owe to the autonomous communities and that it was nobody's government of Spain to have taken it away from them. Ladies and gentlemen, you do not accept many of the questions raised here and, by the way, Mr Rivera, perhaps I have information that is not correct because when you refer to Andalusia, you speak again about the ERE and the PAR. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: Talk about EREs?]] You are like the classical right because, in the background, you have not innovated anything in politics. Every time they talk about Andalusia they try to manipulate it, transfer an image that in nothing corresponds to reality and refer to the EREs. Do you know, Mr. Rivera, that I believe that a councillor of your government in Andalusia at this time has appointed Mr. Guerrero's attorney general? Oh, now Mr. Rivera says what and what. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: Man!-Mr Rivera Díaz utters words that are not perceived]] Do you mind if they appoint Mr. Guerrero's lawyer, also director general of the Andalusian Junta? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u125	Silence! Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the British Parliament; it is not the British Parliament. [[Laughter]] I'm telling you because maybe there's something wrong with the country. [[Rumors]] Silence! You're all giving a show today, all of you. I beg you, please, silence because one person, the speaker, has the floor. I am sure that someone, like Mr Igea, is very graceful, but none of me, Mr Igea, is graceful, because I have the responsibility that the good name of this House is never scorned. Go on, minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u126	I'm finishing up, Madam President. Do you know why I'm telling you, Mr. Rivera? As you will understand I have nothing to object to who you name, but if that had been done by the Socialist Party, if the Socialist Party in Andalusia had made that appointment or that appointment, where would the voices that you have raised be heard? [[Mr. Cantó García del Moral makes gestures]] Mr. Cantó, you keep interacting now without talking. If you don't know who Mr. Guerrero is, consult the hemerotecs because they may have some information. Mr Rivera - I conclude - you cannot give the Socialist Party any kind of lesson as to how to talk and lessons as to how to behave. Do you think it makes sense that you brought the toast with Otegi to this debate? Are you, Mr. Rivera, going to speak to the Socialist Party of ETA? Do you know what the Socialist Party has suffered in its own flesh from ETA terrorism? Do you remember how difficult the dialogue with that terrorist formation was for them to abandon their weapons, Mr Rivera, and that this was due to the push of society as a whole, but also during a government of the Socialist Party? Are you going to talk to Mr. Otegi about toast? [[Applauds]] With regard to ETA, you cannot give lessons to this party, which has among its militant victims ETA, Mr Rivera. And we have suffered a lot because of terrorism in this country. We will continue to practice the politics of the twenty-first century. I don't know if she'll be old, if she'll be new or if she'll be half a pensioner, Mr. Rivera. We will continue to dialogue, we will continue to try to reach agreements, we will continue to work to improve people's lives, so that our young people have better prospects for the future, so that they can access a rental, so that they can find a job, so that they can have cheaper university fees, so that, ultimately, they can develop their vital project. We will continue to work for the pensioners of this country, who have also left their health to try to raise it, so that they have decent pensions, that they are able to revalue themselves according to the CPI and the index of life. We will continue to work for better public services, increasing transfers to the autonomous communities. We will strengthen the Dependency Act - which was dropped by the People's Party with its support, because they have never tabled an amendment in the budgets to increase the dependency items - which will allow us thousands of people who are waiting for a benefit, in the end, to be attended to. Let's lower the bill for the light. Let's start the thermal social bonus. Let's take care of the Spaniards, Your Honor. And as long as there are problems that this government can tackle, it's on its way. This I say to you because of your anxiety, I say to you because of your permanent: Call elections. Make it clear to you that this government has come to rule, that this government has come to change people's lives, and that as long as these tasks remain, Mr. Rivera, this government will continue to rule. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u127	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u128	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Rivera, you tell us that your mother has to erase weekly some ties that paint her on the facade. I'm sorry, I don't think that's right. My partner and children are taking posters and stickers off the front of my house every day that pray like this: Nazis, bastards and all kinds of insults. The anecdote can be painful, that of your mother, mine and that of so many other people, because also some councillor and personality of the Catalan Socialist Party has received insults or an attempt of aggression, and myself and you. But the anecdote, however painful it may be, is anecdote, the category is another. The category is that Catalonia is a peaceful, defenceless, civic, democratic people, made up of a large majority of citizens who are constitutionalists and who are not in favour of independence and also by a large majority who are. This is the reality in 2019. In fact, in the last elections independence reached 48 % - it did not reach 50 %, it is true -; the constitutionalist parties, 42 % - that is, 6 points less than the independenceist parties - and it is true that there are almost 11 % of Catalan citizens who do not declare themselves constitutionalist, but who somehow understand that the Spanish Constitution should accommodate a referendum; they are the comrades of En Comú Pomera, the comrades of Esquerra Unida i Alternativa, of Initiative per Catalunya Verds, etc. In other words, they are those who are in favour of a process of right to decide exercised perhaps from a different Spanish framework, possibly the third Spanish republic. It is enough to say that there is no social majority: 48 %, 42 % and then 11 %, which are the comrades who are not independenceists, but who want to exercise the right to self-determination, and I say the comrades of Podemos, En Comú Puem and Initiative per Catalunya Verds. The chance of history has caused this debate of the General Budgets of the State to coincide with a trial that, in our view, is the judgment of shame. It is a judgment that will cause an emotional fracture between a good part of Catalonia - I say a good part, I don't say all of Catalonia - and a good part of Spain that I think will have much more magnitude than the judgment of the year 2010, which provoked what we have considered as dynamite the Statute of autonomy that had been endorsed by the people of Catalonia. In fact, I am convinced that our children or grandchildren - I hope they are our children, if we are not able to solve it now -, apart from what resolution we are capable of putting forward the democratic politicians and policies present here today, will see this photograph in the textbooks within fifteen or twenty years. [[Shows a photo showing the twelve defendants in the trial]] This photograph will appear in the textbooks, as other photographs appear in the textbooks of today's students. We understand it's the general cause, you know that. They don't have to share our opinion, but for us it's even a farce judgment. You know why? Because the sentence is inspired - which is not written - by revenge. The Spanish State has wanted to feel humiliated at the exercise of institutional disobedience - I recognize it, it is true - and popular that was October 1st and the State has responded with a willingness to scarment Catalonia or to scarment much of Catalan society. Thinking what? Thinking that in today's world, in the rich, cultured and democratic Europe in which everything begins and ends in democracy, that we would be frightened and scarred by candles and renounce the right to self-determination in a peaceful and democratic way, as other peoples have done. I think this is a bad solution. In short, it is bread for today and hunger for tomorrow, because what makes you think that by repression and by sentences that will - I repeat - cause an immense emotional fracture you will have the consent of much of the Catalans? Are these ways of seducing Catalan citizenship? Is democracy not consent? If democracy is consent, it is clear that Catalonia cannot be segregated from Spain if it is not democratic, just as Catalonia cannot be retained if it is not by the will of Catalan citizens. In short, said in a popular way - they must understand it, even if it hurts them - I understand that it hurts them that forty years after the Spanish Constitution has been approved the Catalan reality of today is not that of forty years ago. It's true. I do not believe this myself, nor do I believe that independence has gone from 12% to 48% accounted for in such a few years and that almost 70% or 75% agree to a referendum as long as it is agreed. But this is the reality. That is why we demand the principle of reality. Do you want, as we do, to finally find a democratic resolution to the conflict? Because if we do not find it, Spanish society, Spanish democracy, will not be able to face the challenges of the 21st century. What is more, a non-democratic resolution of the conflict is, first of all, that the Catalans, all of them, the independenceists and those who are not, we will suffer, and we will suffer a lot, but also Spanish society will suffer. In fact, Spanish society is suffering because, as the non-resolution of the conflict settles, democracy suffers, weakens and fascisms re-emerge. This is reality, it's objective reality. You know that once Mr Rajoy was here, when he was a candidate for the investiture, we raised the following, we said to him: there are only two ways of resolving the conflicts we have in our hands, which are obvious and which cannot be hidden, the democratic and the non-democratic path. The democratic path was not invented by us, invented by the Swedes and Norwegians in 1905, completed by the Scots and the British when Edinburgh and London entered into a referendum. And remember that the Scottish National Party had only 44% of the vote. Then there was another way, the way of judicialization, the way of repression. And we said to Mr Rajoy: Mr Rajoy, if you choose this route, in a few years' time in the Spanish state there will again be political prisoners. And Mr. Rajoy, with hindrance, because he had it, ridiculed us and said we were scared. Well, it's been a few years, there are political prisoners, there are exiles and the problem is much bigger today than it was a few years ago, much bigger. In fact, the problem is so great that the same democracy is in check because we have already started to give as normal the violation of civil rights, democratic rights, when the whole Spanish society, all anti-fascism, for decades they had to put all the meat in the roaster and blood to win democratic rights that today have been absolutely violated by this judgment to which we call the judgment of shame. Mr Sánchez, your Government, acknowledged the following a few months ago, acknowledged that the current status of autonomy was not the statute adopted by the Catalan people in a referendum. Well, that's right. The current statute is unconstitutional because it violates article 152.2 of the Constitution. I'm sorry, this would have no value if I said so, since I'm academically what I am, but I've been ratified by highly educated voices. Mr Sánchez said: The solution will come through the ballot box. Of course, a conflict between democrats - you are democrats and we too, you belong to a democratic party and we too - can only be resolved democratically. It's obvious... But, look, it's very obvious that it's taken years for the President of the Spanish Government to recognize him from this rostrum. I turn to the second obviousness that President Sánchez acknowledged. Catalans must have the right to decide whether they want this autonomy or a better autonomy. In fact, he was the first to talk - also the comrades of the PSC - about the possibility of a new statute of autonomy. That is to say, Catalans of 2019 do not have to suffer, the Spanish state, the Kingdom of Spain guarantees you democratically that you can decide between this democracy or another better. And then we say to the President of the Government: And 50% of Catalans who are not autonomous, would we have to leave our country? Because it is clear that we will not be able to build a solution if this solution does not integrate real Catalonia. What's real Catalonia? The real Catalonia today is the one I have mentioned before and which, objectively, cannot be questioned. At least 50% of Catalans are independent and 50% of Catalans are not. So, is it worth agreeing with? Is it worth the conversation? In fact, Mr Ábalos asked me - and I put him as a witness - what do you ask to vote in favour of the motion of censure? The answer was: Nothing. And why nothing? Not only because it was essential to vacate the right hand of the rule of the Kingdom of Spain, but because we made a republican and democratic bet to build scenarios of dialogue and negotiation. Scenarios of dialogue that over time - and I say over time to be humble and to recognize the complexity of history and this situation - will lead to scenarios of negotiation and, over time, to scenarios of agreement, satisfactory agreement for both parties. But to begin with, we will have to find a framework in which we do not cheat, because if we cheat from the moment zero, how can we aspire to a successful conclusion of a negotiation? And we cheat if we don't have courage and courage. I understand that it takes a lot of courage and courage because the right is what it is, but not cheating means that we have to recognize that it is as legitimate to put self-determination on the table as it is legitimate to put autonomy on the table. We have to assume as independentists that you have every right to propose autonomy as a solution, but you will have to acknowledge that we have the right to propose self-determination. We have approved all the royal decrees, all of them; all except one, it is true, that of housing not, because we understand that not giving competences to the municipalities in order to be able to weigh - I say at least to weigh - the price of rents was unacceptable to us as a leftist party. Why have we approved all the royal decrees? Why? For we have approved them because we have already said so from the beginning and despite suffering what we are suffering. We have comrades in prison, in the 21st century; we are still catatonic, we still do not believe that we have comrades in prison for whom they ask for twenty-five years. If you had comrades in jail for being democrats, you'd be like us, catatonic. In fact, I must say that I find it very insulting that members of your party - I do not say you - call for the illegalization of the Republican Left. How can a Democrat call for the illegalization of another Democrat? [[Applauds]] We don't understand. Even suffering what we are suffering, even knowing that perhaps others will have to go into prison, despite everything, we, from the first day, stretched out hand. Although there have been sectors of independence that have not understood it, we have said: a Socialist Party government supported by Podemos will always be more dialogueal than a People's Party government supported by Citizens. Moreover, Catalan republicanism has always worked to have spaces shared with the Spanish left. Or do you not remember the shared space that we built in 2004 with Mr Maragall to obtain, we who are independentists, a new status of autonomy. And who went to deal with Mr. Mas and left us at the stake? It was the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Even so, we have voted against the motion of censure because it is our duty as Republicans and we have passed them the royal decrees. What did we ask of them? That they should not be afraid of the right hand, that they should not be afraid of the right hand. What have we asked of them? Let them recognize the realities. Today, in 2019, no solution can be built apart from the democratic principle and a fundamental axis of the democratic principle is the right to self-determination. Democratic principle and principle of reality, democratic principle and principle of reality. You didn't dare. You know what we're gonna do? We will insist; if the conditions for dialogue and negotiation have not been laid down now, we will work to ensure that this scenario is given in the future - the sooner the better. It is imperative that we assume that we cannot endorse the problem to the generations that come after us. Here, in 1918 - I invite you to read the diaries of sessions of the Congress of Deputies -, when Catalonia brought to the Congress of Deputies the first draft statute of autonomy, the right said: Of sovereignty never anything. The Catalan deputies, all from the Carlists to the Republicans passing through the monarchies and Largo Caballero - elected by the Barcelona constituency - all left the Chamber. When everyone had left, the last one went up to the rostrum and said: There is nothing to do, until the regime falls they will not recognize Catalonia. The arguments were very similar. Moreover, one is blushing when he finds that, with a different Castilian, the arguments remain the same, as do the ABC holders of today, who remain the same as those of the 1930s. Same. [[Applauds]] Are we going to face the challenge? Today, you have decided that you are not in a position to do so. Even, minister, I'm sorry you're addressing the Catalan Republicans calling us blackmailers. [[Applauds]] I don't think we deserve it, I don't think we deserve to be called blackmailers. I invite you to quantify the times that this parliamentary group, Esquerra Republicana, has voted in favour of socialist initiatives. We always vote ex officio, or almost always vote ex officio, in favour of the initiatives of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, even though we only share 10%. I mean, how dare they tell us we're blackmailers? Singers of what? If what we want is to build a scenario of solution, a scenario of dialogue because, in the end, in societies far more complex than ours, in societies where conflicts have been violent, very violent, democracy has overcome all problems. And we are not going to be able, in the absence of violence - even when we have referred to the anecdotes, which are painful - to build a scenario of dialogue and negotiation when we now have it in our hands? They know we had it in our hand and they haven't been able to hold the right-hand chaperone. It is true, the right hand goes after us; in fact, it has already gone after us. By the way, then you will go after you, because you know perfectly well that you would never have thought that you would say what you already say but, obviously, before you go after you will go after the communist comrades and the comrades of Podemos. [[applause]] For this reason we always say that fascism is fought with culture, certainly with culture, but also with democracy and on the street. [[Applauds]] Finally,...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u129	Mr Tardà, I said this earlier in the middle of a few speeches, but since you have almost twenty-five minutes left and you have only six minutes left, I would like to remind you that the debate, as I said earlier between two speeches, is about budgets. I say it to you and I have said it to everyone with great respect. [[Rumors]] Yes, yes, to everyone, what happens is that within the time used this is a budget debate.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u130	Madam President, as draftswoman of the amendment as a whole, I must say that what is set out here is contained in the amendment as a whole which has been accepted by the Bureau. [[Applauds]] I do not want this, Madam President - and you know me - to question your authority, but I have merely reproduced with greater or lesser luck the contents of the explanatory statement of the amendment as a whole. Still...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u131	Mr Tardà, the arguments are valid, but it is good, from time to time, to name the budget. [[Laughter]] You can go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u132	I will act as we Catalan Republicans, with all sincerity and without double languages. We understand this is a missed opportunity, yes. It is a missed opportunity and for this reason we will work to ensure that this missed opportunity is not definitive. We have an obligation to take on this challenge. I repeat, the Spanish left counts and has always counted on Catalan republicanism and when times are difficult, hard times and slows down the temporal, we always say the same thing that, perhaps, seems to them a slogan, but it is not and comes out of the heart of this republican, and it is as follows: Long live Catalan republicanism, live Spanish republicanism and live democracy! [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u133	I give the floor to the Minister of Finance. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u134	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Tardà, I think it is appropriate not to deceive us or to generate false expectations for the citizens. I believe that this government has been clear from the outset and you know that we will not put the right of self-determination on any agenda. [[Applauds]] You know it from day one. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, there is a path of dialogue within the framework of the limits that this Executive has set on not putting that on the agenda, in the same way as I say to you, Mr Tardà, that this Executive will defend the impartiality of Spanish justice within and outside Spain, will defend the judges and the courts and will defend the separation of the powers of the rule of law because it is their duty and responsibility. That is why I say to you, Mr Tardà, that the Executive has been meridianly clear. If the processing of budgets depends on whether we agree to talk about what you call the right of self-determination over Catalonia, I am telling you that there will be no budgets, and this, Your Honor, is nothing new, I think you know from day one. Therefore, it is not understood how precisely in the last days they have been insistently raising that this was a premise to support the General Budgets of the State and to continue the progress so that Catalans and the rest of the Spaniards of this country can enjoy better public services or better financing. Mr Tardà, I believe that in politics as in life all decisions have their consequences, and to think that they do not have them is to live in pure fantasy. We cannot expect someone with a magic wand to come and fix all the problems of the last decade, and I honestly think, Mr Tardà, that it is a historic mistake that the Republican Left does not support these budgets. I say this as I think it is not going to be understood in Catalonia that a left-wing party, apart from the Republican party, does not support the improvement of public accounts that allow a better quality of life for all citizens; it is not going to be understood, Mr Tardà, the solution is probably not in the short term, but this does not mean that we do not have to continue on the path of dialogue; of course, yes, any Democrat to find a solution to the great challenges has to follow the path of dialogue, but, Sir, I believe that we have been quite transparent in saying that this country is a country that respects the democratic rights of all citizens - I wanted to say it from this rostrum because I believe that you have said the opposite and if not, I understand it - a country that respects democracy, a country that respects the separation of powers, a country that is impeccable in terms of democratic justice, as the President of the Government himself has defended here and also outside Spain. This is a country that has clear rules and, like any country, when those rules are not met or when you skip legality you have to suffer the consequences. That is why, Mr Tardà, we have never thought of these budgets as safe conduct for this government, ever. This budget was the guarantee that a country was moving forward and that, therefore, we all put the citizens' problem at the centre of the political debate, regardless of whether the elements relating to the vertebration of Spain, the territorial challenge have to be discussed, from respect for the Constitution and the laws, also at tables of dialogue. And you, Mr Tardà, did not want to participate in the institutional dialogue tables that existed in the Parliament of Catalonia or in this House itself. I therefore believe that you too have to make an important self-criticism as to whether the path you have really taken and that it seems that you do not rectify really leads you to achieve a country advance and to achieve improvements also for Catalonia. Because I do say to you, Your Honor, that this government has a country project for Spain; a country where, moreover - you have listened to me in my first speech - we hope that we all feel proud to belong to it and for that we have to change many things, but, of course, Mr Tardà, what we are not going to share is to want to break the coexistence between all the Spaniards and between the Catalans, because we want a stronger Spain with Catalonia inside and that is what we want to push and what we were also trying to do at the tables of dialogue, to be able to lead ourselves to higher doses of self-government respecting the rules of play established by the Constitution. You have told President Sánchez several times to be brave. I believe that this government has clearly demonstrated its courage. This Government, which emerged from a motion of censure, has been demonstrating this for eight months, at which more than twenty meetings have taken place between this Government and the Generalitat and channels of dialogue have been established for the benefit of Catalans and all Spaniards. I will only remind you that the President of the Government has met twice with the President of the Generalitat, in July in Moncloa and on 20 December in Pedralbes, just as he has met with the rest of the presidents and autonomous presidents. You will also acknowledge, Your Honor, that it was convened in August, only two months after the investiture, the bilateral State-General Commission complying with what was laid down in the Statute of Catalonia. You remember, Mr Tardà, that this Commission had not met for seven years. The Government has therefore shown its firm desire to move forward, to respect the laws, to respect the statute and therefore to comply with this organic law. What I want to say with all this, Mr Tardà, is that this government does not appeal to dialogue in an abstract sense. When we talk about dialogue, we step aside and sit down at the table to discuss and confront ideas, and we have done so with the Generalitat. As a result of this real dialogue, of this tangible dialogue, agreements have been reached, not concessions, Mr Casado and Mr Rivera - which are not in the House, but his colleagues in the parliamentary group can pass on to them - agreements have been reached that have been important for the whole of Catalonia; the Joint Economic Affairs Commission agreed to comply with the Supreme Court ruling, which recognized an investment deficit in Catalonia in 2008, and once again the Government, ladies and gentlemen, complied with the law, and compliance with the law favored Catalonia. At that same meeting, too, there was an end to a conflict that you have been claiming for years, as was the financing of the Mossos d'Esquadra. Therefore, of course, there have been agreements and progress, ladies and gentlemen, the dialogue that the Government has entered into with the Generalitat has been fruitful, it has been positive to improve resources in Catalonia and to improve the services of Catalans. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u136	You used to appeal to courage, and we have assumed the consequences of meetings in the constitutional framework that I have just commented on because we knew that the right blue and the right orange would qualify the meeting itself as an outrage, and the government has wanted to continue working to reduce tension in Catalonia because it believes that working for Catalonia means working for the general interest of Spain. Now, ladies and gentlemen, like then, this dialogue has moved strictly within the constitutional limits. And I will tell you something that I believe I will repeat throughout this day, this government does not want or can discuss extramurals of the Spanish Constitution. Your political formation has been told with absolute clarity, it is so simple, but believe me that within the clear constitutional limits there is room for improvement, Mr Tardà. What is not possible is to pose reality as dichotomous: either you recognize me the right of self-determination or I no longer believe that there is possible progress. That is not a dialogue that can reach anywhere, Mr Tardà, because they know that this Government will not accept putting the right of self-determination on the agenda. That's why I don't think they have to get bogged down, if I may say so, in a maximalist position, because you already know that this leads them to a dead end. Please note, Mr Tardà, that you were talking about Europe, what is happening, for example, on the occasion of the Brexit and the situation of real, daily difficulty that the United Kingdom and Europe are having in relation to Brexit. We, ladies and gentlemen, are talking about our Constitution, we cannot talk about the Constitution of other countries. And you know that self-determination is not a constitutional right and therefore cannot be part of that agenda of the dialogue tables that we have repeatedly tried to push towards a dialogue solution. Ladies and gentlemen, for what you are talking about here in the rostrum, Mr Tardà - and I really appreciate it and thank you for your tone - it seems that you want to make believe or show that democracy consists of whether there is a referendum or not on the right of self-determination, and that is where you fix all the capacity and the whole democratic base of Catalonia and our country, when democracy, because it is democracy, Mr Tardà, has to be developed within the constitutional limits, because there is no democracy outside the law, and that is what we have carried by active, passive, outside the meetings and within the meetings. There can be no democracy outside the law. [[Applauds]] Therefore, within the law, Mr Tardà, there is an opportunity for democracy, for further progress and for further self-government. A responsible government such as Mr Sánchez had to try, necessarily, to reverse the conflict, the tension situation that exists in Catalonia and rebuild bridges because, probably, some of them had dynamized. But, Your Honor, it is not possible to put self-determination at the same level as autonomy, because the former is not a right, the latter is. Therefore, deepening autonomy is a legal possibility, a constitutional possibility that we have to continue to explore, because, although there are some issues regarding constitutional reforms that allow for the recognition of rights at this time about women or about the people they have...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u138	... greater difficulties - thank you, President - and that the social part of our Constitution could also be improved, Your Honor, the right to autonomy has been explored and has given years of success to this State and this country for having decentralized competences, but I believe that it is also a path that we can continue to take. We are aware that the right wing of this country does not propose any solution. We already know that 155 is no solution. Obviously, for the right wing of this country it is a denial of reality and, probably, the measure itself is contrary to the Spanish Constitution. We do not share, Your Honor, a 155 sine die. We have indeed been on the side of the government when, unilaterally, another government has skipped legality, as you would probably do if someone within Catalonia skips legality. Your Honor, we have a different position which allows for a deeper understanding of the agreement and a deeper dialogue. You will say that, during today's day, we have been talking about the Spanish Constitution for a long time, and you are right. The Spanish Constitution has been key to achieving the greatest period of prosperity within our history and, moreover, allowed, Your Honor, and I appeal to that attitude, that antagonistic and distant positions could succeed in sitting at a common table. That is why, Your Honor, we know that there are many electoral interests that are waiting for the failure of this Government. It says the right that the government is doing what it is doing is giving in to you for the approval of a budget or to remain in power, but, as I said this morning, you do not know that this budget is priceless, and you have also said it today from the rostrum. Of course, everything you have said about hidden covenants and such issues is not part of our road map. You say, Mr. Tardà, that it has bothered you that I had spoken of blackmail. Do you know why I used this word? What would you call for someone to say, as Mr Torra or the leaders of your party have done, that if the right of self-determination is not put on the table, these budgets are not approved? How do you qualify that condition that is put in place to approve budgets? We can call it the way you prefer, but I have called blackmail an assimilation between talking about the right of self-determination and allowing the improvement of citizens' lives, Your Honor. You know that we are not going to give in to any approach that is going to put this issue on the agenda, as we have been saying since this morning. They also ignore - you have said it -, today you have ignored it and also days before, whether there are budgets or not, that dialogue solution is still pending. Therefore, any responsible Government, without over-action, will have to address it with caution, but also with firmness. I believe, Mr Tardà, that what is at stake at the moment in our country is coexistence, the future of Spain and the future of Catalonia as well. That is why this Government is working to reduce this climate of tension, to create spaces for dialogue and to unite wills, all of which respect the law and the Constitution. That is why, Your Honor, we do not talk about staying in the government; to remain, we mean that what this cabinet needs to continue to solve citizens' problems, to continue trying to address people's real problems, it is necessary to have social budgets that allow us to continue to improve, but it is logical that the government cannot take them forward alone and, therefore, we will continue to try to apply that only from politics can people's problems be solved. Mr Tardà, it is also true that the situation in Catalonia cannot be confined to the general budgets of the State; I share that. The problem of Catalonia is exceptional, it is complex, it needs patience, maturity, help from everyone, and although there are no budgets it will continue to exist the next day, but I think you will have to give many explanations in Catalonia if you do not allow these budgets to be processed, because they are objectively good budgets for Catalonia and Spain. Believe me, these are good budgets for Catalonia. There have probably not been better budgets for Catalonia in recent years, and not because it includes special treatment, as some since the permanent crisis want to see, no, it is a good budget for Catalonia because we have tried to be fair with the autonomous communities, because this government believes in the state of autonomy, defends it, and wants to continue to deepen in that state of autonomy. You did not say that in your speech, but the budget provides for an investment of more than EUR 2200 million for Catalonia. Do you not think, Mr Tardà, that beyond ideology, beyond the aspirations of your political parties, Catalans and Catalans deserve an improvement in public services? Don't you think that pensioners in Catalonia have to see their pension increased? Do you not think that the interprofessional minimum wage should be raised to Catalans? Do you not think that we should also support the Government of the Generalitat with better funding for the unit? You see that these resource improvements, which you have been demanding on the other hand, as the rest of the autonomous communities have long ago, mean an advance for Catalonia. How can they deny Catalonia that it has better resources to revitalize its public services, Mr Tardà? Honestly, I don't understand. I think that you have complicated it by intertwining issues that have nothing to do with the discussion of public accounts and I think that these budgets, if they were good for Catalonia, the nationalist parties in Catalonia had to have approved these budgets. That's what I believe and what I aspired to. [[Rumors]] There are 900 million more euros than in 2018 that will serve, as I said, to improve the lives of Catalans. [[Rumors]] They contain the 200 million of the agreements to which we have reached the Government and Generalitat for the execution of the sentence and also a volume of resources in their transfers, in their deliveries to account, which have an increase of 2310 million, the largest endowment, ladies and gentlemen, that we have had for the improvement of the system of financing: 20 578 million, another 1400 million for Catalonia, as for the rest of the autonomous communities. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u139	Minister, just a moment, please. Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a break and the minister will not continue until they remain silent, please. It is impossible for the Minister who is speaking at this time to concentrate on her intervention. I ask you, please, silence, ladies and gentlemen. [[Pause]] Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u140	Thank you, Madam President. I was telling you, Mr Tardà, 1400 million of the additional funding system for Catalonia, as for the rest of the autonomous communities. Investment means an increase of 66% in Catalonia, how can we stop that investment from improving proximity, improving the whole way in Catalonia or building infrastructure that had been a historical demand in its autonomous community, improving wages, scholarships, pensions, as I said, or education? In short, that citizens can benefit, that they understand that politics is useful, that it allows them to respond to their urgent needs, to their real problems. The Government's obligation, ladies and gentlemen, is also to try to have better resources for Catalonia and this budget envisages and contains better resources for Catalonia. Therefore, I think you will have to explain why you refuse to take your course. One and a half million pensioners exist in Catalonia who would benefit from the increase in pensions. We are talking about an improvement that affects 20% of Catalan society. The suppression of the pharmaceutical copago, do you know how many people are affected in Catalonia, Mr. Tardà? There are a million pensioners in Catalonia who are facing that pharmaceutical co-op. In education, 120 000 pupils could benefit from the increase in scholarships or aid to school materials or from the budgets for the development of minimum living income, which are 143 000 people in Catalonia; 6500 children who would emerge from severe poverty; recovery of the contribution of non-professional caregivers, in more than 27 000 people in Catalonia, or the recovery of the unemployment benefit in more than 52 years, which will involve 12 000 people who are now unable to earn a living, Mr Tardà, and who will be able to receive State aid; or programmes aimed at eradicating macho violence or increasing paternity leave from five to eight weeks. On your left-wing political party side, Mr Tardà, I cannot understand how you do not support these budgets which are frankly social, which are budgets that put figures on citizens' aspirations for rights recovery, when we have so much criticized from the left-wing parties that there was no effective recovery of the rights that citizens had left parked during the crisis. And I could keep talking about the benefits of this budget. Have you looked at him, Mr. Tardà? Have you seen that additional resources are also envisaged for the metropolitan transport of Barcelona or endowment for the conservation and exploitation of roads or that ADIF increases investments fundamentally for the Mediterranean corridor, for the vicinity of Catalonia, that ADIF and high speed reach the best figures in this budget, the free zone consortium? Mr Tardà, you know that these are good budgets for Catalonia, you know it and probably in recent years, for not going back so long ago, Catalonia has not had better budgets, just as it has not had them by the rest of the autonomous communities, because this Executive has put the resources in those that provide the basic public services; it did not care who provided them but who was directed by those public services: health, education and dependence, and therefore increased transfers, increased investments and increased the capacity for the autonomous governments to alleviate the under-financing situation in which they have been living for too many years. Therefore, we would all have to exercise responsibility, because the only way to continue dialogue, to continue talking, is really for citizens to notice an improvement in their lives, to notice that politics takes care of them. Therefore, Your Honor, we cannot continue to deny that what is really improvement, which can lead to progress, is subject to certain issues, and you know that your own request prevents this Government from making further progress. Our idea of Spain, Mr Tardà, is inclusive, with Catalonia inside, and therefore we cannot and do not want to turn our backs on Catalans and Catalans. Some think that punishing Catalonia no matter what its position, nullifying its autonomy, disregarding its symbols or its feelings is a path to a more united or stronger Spain, but you know that this Executive does not share it, that we believe they are wrong when they make that approach, because that path of contempt, and you said it, only leads to more Catalans who want to leave. That is why, Mr Tardà, we have been responsible, we have been consistent with our idea of the State, which is defined in Title VIII of the Constitution, and I believe that in a few months we have shown our respect for the autonomy of the communities and our respect for the plurality and diversity of Spain. And that is Spain that we like: plural Spain that is expressed in Catalan, that is expressed in Spanish or that is expressed in Galician, because history shows us that Spain has advanced when it has recognized the various identities. But what this Government will never be able to accept, Mr Tardà, is to break the common project of this country. It's, like I told you, we don't want or we can or we're going to do it. I will tell you more, President Sánchez has repeated it on different occasions: In Catalonia there is no social majority - you said - in favour of independence. Nor is there, of course, a social majority in favour of re-centralisation, and less of withdrawing the autonomy of Catalans and Catalans as requested by PP and as requested by Citizens. In Catalonia, Mr Tardà, there is a social and cross-cutting majority which is in favour of deepening self-government and that is the path that this Government believes we have to go. Therefore, there is room for progress and there is room for debate, but if what you put forward is self-determination, you leave no room for agreement and you know from the first day that it is so. We have expressed this and acted accordingly since the first day. It is therefore not understood that you have, in recent weeks, continued to raise issues that you know are impossible and that you know that this Government is not going to accept. I invite you, Mr Tardà, to reflect, and in the framework we have been defining throughout this day, to support budgets that are good for Catalonia, that are good for Spain and that allow us to move forward. If you act otherwise, I insist, Mr Tardà, you are going to make a historic mistake and you are going to have to give many explanations to Catalans and Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u141	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. Mr Tardà, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u142	Thank you, Madam President. Some notes quickly, since there is little time. Let everyone know that Republican Left didn't get up from the table last week. [[Applauds]] It was Mr Sánchez or Vice-President Calvo who decided it with all legitimacy, obviously I recognize the legitimacy of the Spanish Government. Not us. Let everyone know that we did not put on the table those conclusions that we might reach after months and months of negotiation. We only asked that we not cheat from the beginning. Today the great social consensus that exists in Catalonia is that a referendum is chosen and if it can be agreed the majority is already very, but very important. So whether you like it or not, I repeat, after October 1st, after exercising self-determination, even though there have certainly been no consequences regarding the recognition of the republic, this is as true as it is true that nothing will be equal, nothing will be equal. In the end you know, when we talk to people on another level, that we end up recognizing that we will have to start talking and negotiating on the basis of reality and not what we are trying to make look like real. Then, on the table there will be the option of independence and on the table there will be the option of another lace formula and it is possible that independence will win it, it is possible. At this point I think we'll win when it comes because believing that they're going to seduce with sentences of twenty-five years in prison is a bad business for Democrats on one side and on the other. 90% of Catalans in 1978 voted yes to the Constitution. Today the CEO indicates that only 35% would do so without any kind of complex, such as that of 1978. And what's this for? Why is it that the new generations feel so far away from the Spanish Constitution? Because the Spanish Constitution was the beginning and the meeting point for a historical reconciliation between the Kingdom of Spain and Catalonia after centuries of misunderstanding. What happened? That he has won the reading of Fraga, the reading of those who did not vote for the Constitution or questioned it. In the end, Mr Aznar, like the Cid, has won the battle. The Fraguian reading of the Constitution has triumphed and you are going to trailer. By the way, I recall that on 2 October you called for the reprobation of Vice-President Sáenz of Santamaría for the violence against a defenceless people such as the Catalan people; on 2 October. And as I mentioned before, now they even ask for our illegalization. How can this change be in such a few months, despite all that we suffer and taking into account that we put on the table the will not to cheat? Because nothing will be equal and besides the new Catalan generations - and you are contributing this - see with even greater category of wills the fact of exercising the right to self-determination. Look, is Britain a democratic state? Yes, of course. Did he behave democratically in Ireland? No, no, Was the Fourth French Republic a democratic state? Yes, of course. Did the Fourth French Republic behave democratically in Algeria? No, and that's why the Fifth Republic fell and came. Is the Spanish State a democratic State? Of course, the Spanish State is a democratic State. Is he behaving democratically in Catalonia? No, not at all. [[Applauds]] So you have no doubt that history raises a question, that we can take it one way or another. [[The Lord]] If you continue to take it in the way that the right has taken it, and you act on your rebuff, it is clear that the problem will be overtaken and that the next few years, perhaps in the next elections, we will have to join our claim of self-determination in the claim of amnesty. It's true, even years will pass in which we will have to claim amnesty. We've done it before. We had to do it on the Popular Front when Lluis Companies was in jail and we had to do it to get the Spanish and Catalan Democrats out of Francoist prisons. What is evident is that the Catalan people in a civic, peaceful and democratic way will not only not renounce the exercise of the right of self-determination, but that we are convinced that sooner or later you and we, with the cooperation of the other Spanish left forces and other nationalities of the current Spanish State, will work to finally enable the people of Catalonia to decide their future. And what it decides well will be, because in the end democracy always wins. In any case, if it is not now, we make it very clear to you that we will continue to work for dialogue and negotiation, because we have great teachers to learn from, one of whom was Mr Mandela. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u144	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Tardà, in your second speech you have again made the same approach you did in the first one, trying to show democracy as a matter of face or cross: either a referendum of self-determination is discussed and accepted or there is no democracy. That's what seems to come out of his words. If that is not what you said, it certainly seems to be what you have moved, because you cannot give the idea that democracy does operate in Spain but that it does not operate in Catalonia, which I believe is what you said at the end of your speech. You know, Mr Tardà, that the statements you made regarding the right of self-determination and the conditions you put on the right of self-determination meant getting up from the table. Mr Tardà, there are many ways to get up from a table; one of them is to get up physically and another way is to raise things that are impossible, that you knew this government would not accept, that it could neither accept nor want to accept. Therefore, it is not worth you saying now that it is others who have risen from the table, because that implies precisely the decision and attitude that you have taken. Mr Tardà, this government respects the decisions of judges and prosecutors. We live in a democratic country and a social rule of law regardless of powers. I therefore also appeal to the usefulness of politics by accepting and respecting those issues that are fundamental to the coexistence and functioning of a country. Mr Tardà, I believe that the mistake that you have made, which I have previously described as historic, is to have joined your aspirations mimetically to the approval of these budgets that you know are good. You know that these are budgets that allow citizens to have some oxygen and find a breath after seven years of black Friday and after the governments of the People's Party. I think you know perfectly well that millions of Catalans would live better if this budget were published in the State Official Gazette after its approval. What I ask myself, Mr Tardà, is how can you make the improvement of the lives of Catalans subject to the questions you have raised, which have another channel and which obviously cannot be raised as conditions for approving these budgets, because you knew that the answer would be that which you have obtained: a refusal by this Executive. Couldn't these public accounts be improved? Apart from the fact that everyone ideologically defends what he wants to defend, is it not time for us to deal with the daily problems of the Spaniards, the Catalans and the Catalans, Mr Tardà? Don't you think that's important enough to support these budgets? Don't you think the other way around would be getting into a dead end? Because, Mr. Tardà, whether you like it or not, you are going to join your vote to the right of this country. Whether you like it or not, in the end you will vote with the People's Party and Citizens. It unites its votes to try to prevent progress and the recovery of the rights of all citizens. I have told you that the budgets include the largest expenditure in Spain on dependency, scholarships and gender-based violence. Does not Esquerra Republicana of Catalonia share that it was necessary to revitalize these public games and be able to offer better services to citizens? But if you know, Mr. Tardà! You have had protests about the functioning of public services, just as you have had many other autonomous communities, because the autonomous communities are underfunded. Therefore, what happens is that we do not understand this refusal to allow more resources for Catalonia, more investment for Catalonia and, ultimately, an improvement in the lives of Catalans and Catalans. Therefore, Your Honor, I would also like to remind you that we have never raised the illegalization of the nationalist parties in Catalonia - I think you have said so; if not, excuse me - because we understand that the problems are not illegalized. The problems are solved and addressed from courage, measure and common sense. In our case, our Executive also addresses them, Mr Tardà, within the limits of the constitutional framework. That situation is not new; you knew it and, despite that, you have decided to unite the fate of your aspiration with that of these budgets. Today you will join the bloc that is asking for 155 sine die and, therefore, Your Honor, join that bloc that always sees Spain in black and white. Like I said, I think they're making a mistake. Therefore, Mr Tardà, I do not think you want to choose the path of the worst, although sometimes I have the impression that you too are interested in confrontation. Sometimes I get the impression that you think you're getting better electoral revenue by living in confrontation, probably in another framework, the framework we came from before, and that's why we're not going to share it, because that path doesn't lead anywhere and it can only make the situation of citizens worse and not allow you to aspire to your life project as everyone can have raised it. This Government has demonstrated its readiness for dialogue, and also a real dialogue, and I believe that you have trivialized it and made it an extreme, dichotomous position, in which or this or nothing. I believe, Mr Tardá, that this is not the way and that we cannot go that way. We have brought this budget into an agreement of the left-wing parties of this Parliament; therefore, with social measures that capture the aspirations from the left to try to reverse the cuts made by the People's Party. These have been budgets that have been drawn up in advance of the social axis and whose approval leads to the improvement of the lives of millions of people. [[The lady]] This Government has always been willing to listen to his opinion and would be happy to include contributions in the period of amendments that talk about public accounts. Obviously, the budget is never exhausted in the presentation procedure, but what is not possible is what you have proposed, and it is simply impossible to talk about the budgets in order to end up questioning the territorial distribution of Spain or the judicial system. Mr Tardá, you knew that this government was not going to give in to these issues. I regard you as a parliamentarian, but it seems to you that this budget is not important, that it does not deserve a self-assessment of you, who are members of this House, and I want us to talk about the real problems of Catalans, to talk about the dependence and funding of this pillar of the welfare state. I want to talk about child poverty in Catalonia, I want to address a more redistributive tax system also in Catalonia, I want to talk about raising the contribution to large corporations in Spain and Catalonia, I want to talk about how we reduce the pressure on small and medium-sized enterprises, about paternity leave or how we promote equality and reconciliation, and about allocating resources to gender-based violence. We need to talk about all this, Mr. Tardá. This is the invitation that this government has always made with regard to budgets, to be able to talk about the real problem, the daily problem that exists in Spain and that exists in Catalonia. We know that the territorial situation will continue, Mr Tardá, whether there are budgets or not, and we know that you will not give up your idea, but I also say to you with complete frankness that this Government will neither give up its ideas nor allow the Constitution to be violated, and you know it. This Government will always submit to the rule of law and will act firmly in the face of administrative acts that violate the law. We did it in the opposition and we will also do it from the Government. I'm done, Mr. Tardá. Catalonia today needs state budgets that will improve the funding of the Generalitat and allow the cuts to be reversed, and you know it; it needs a project that will bet on coexistence, and that is exactly what this government is offering. Is that not enough, Mr. Tardá? Don't you think that's enough to support these public accounts? I am sorry that you have not taken into account our extended hand, and I am sorry for many reasons, but above all for the Catalans and also for the Spanish. In any case, let me say, Mr Tardá, that this party will not cease its efforts to find a formula to overcome the territorial challenge, and it will do so within the Spanish Constitution and within the existing law, and I hope for the good of all and all that this solution will soon come for the good of Catalonia and for the good of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u145	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, whose members will be defending their respective amendments or, if necessary, setting a position, and in addition, all of them will accumulate their speaking time in this turn, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u146	Thank you very much, President. President, Minister for Finance, ministers, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we have been hearing all afternoon about elections and ballots and ballots and counting and, look what a paradox, a few blocks from here today there are twelve people who are judged to put ballots, to put ballots, to let people vote. [[Applauds]] This trial that has begun today with these twelve people, nine political prisoners, is a shame for all of us and those who are not conscious will be so in the future, because, when they see this photograph, we will all be ashamed. That being said, we are going to talk about budgets, because we have not heard much about them, and I too am going to devote part of my time to making a general framework for the processing of these budgets. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u147	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u148	Mr Sánchez, you came to the Presidency of the Government with our votes, in a motion of censure. At that time we told him that we did not ask him for anything in return but that he would start a new stage. And we have given him time to start this new stage, but the reality is that Friday at two o'clock in the afternoon the deadline for submitting the amendment as a whole was over. Our group presented it minutes earlier and presented it because some ongoing negotiations had not been concluded. And it had been close, but something happened on Thursday afternoon, something happened on Friday morning and I ask you today to come back, we are on time, this ends tomorrow at noon; come back on Wednesday evening, come back on Thursday morning and we will withdraw the amendment if we can close as little as it takes. I have heard the minister say that this Government does not accept blackmail. What we put to you is not blackmail, it is negotiation; it is absolutely not blackmail because dialogue is never blackmail, and then I will talk about dialogue. Perhaps you did accept blackmail last week, when someone started talking about a rapporteur. I here, Mr. President, want you to remember. Look at the hemerotheque last week and look at the hemerotheque of the first half of 2016. The same ones who were asking you to abort the dialogue with Catalonia this past week - the same ones - were asking you to invert President Rajoy. They are exactly the same; the same married, the same riparians, the same wars, the same gonzalez. On the other hand, you don't listen to those we made president of the government and I don't just say Catalans anymore. Talk to the rest of the political forces. Someone qualifies this government as the Frankenstein government and I would ask Mr Rivera, if this is a Frankenstein government, how does he qualify the government of Andalusia? [[Applauds]] You don't listen to the investiture partners who hurt you right-wing parties. Madam Minister, we asked to speak. Dialogue is a dialogue without conditions. If we can only talk about what you want or what you want, it is not dialogue. I do not ask you to agree with what we are demanding; we ask you to be able to speak and, if you cannot talk about everything, then this is not a frank dialogue. They say, "No, you have to talk within the law." Okay. But can you talk about changing the law? Because what we are proposing is to be able to speak, Minister, and you have a moment when, unfortunately, you give in to pressures, but it is not the pressures of the independenceists, it is other pressures. The reality is this and, truly, I regret it because you were not yielding to anything, you were enabling dialogue and a political solution to the conflict in Catalonia and the problem in Catalonia. You, Mr President, have had the courage - and I must admit it - to say that there is a political problem in Catalonia, and the political problem has to be solved with political solutions, and political solutions with dialogue, but a broad, frank, unrestricted dialogue, and the agreements will be reached later. We don't ask them to give up anything, but they can't ask us to give up anything. You say this budget is good for Catalans. Madam Minister, I can tell you that it is better than there was, but you sold that this budget complied with the third additional provision and did not comply. They're missing 300 million. [[The Minister of Finance, Montero Quadrado, makes negative gestures]] Yeah, sure, 300 million is nothing to you. You say that this budget allows you to increase the interprofessional minimum wage, and I tell you that we already validated this a few weeks ago in this House. You say it serves to revalue pensions, and I tell you that we already validated it a few weeks ago. It says that, through this budget, we will be able to fight child poverty and increase subsidies for unemployed people over fifty-two years old. It is true, Minister, but this too can be done without a budget. [[The Minister of Finance, Montero Quadrado, makes negative gestures]] Yes, Minister, yes. Because you, with four months of government, made a budgetary amendment of 729 million euros upwards in the defence budget. If you can change the defence budget upwards by 729 million... [[The Minister of Finance, Montero Quadrado: No; it's not true]] Yes, yes, your government, and if the finance minister doesn't know, I'm starting to worry. [[The Minister of Finance, Montero Quadrado, makes negative gestures]] He's at the IGAE, it's easy to check. If they can do so, they can also do so in all these policies. [[The Minister of Finance, Montero Quadrado, makes negative gestures]] Yes, yes, Minister. You tell the Catalans: they will have to explain that there is an increase in the ADIF budget of 50% in Catalonia, and I tell you that the problem is not the budget - which also - the problem is the budget implementation. Do you know how much your government executed from the ADIF budget in Catalonia? 48 % of the budgeted. If you only run 48% of the budget, why do you say that now you are going to increase investment in Catalonia a lot? No, it increases the budgeted, not the executed. There have been accidents in the vicinity in the province of Barcelona recently. Do you know how much you executed from your nearby budget for Barcelona? 31%, Minister. Therefore, this budget is not optimal and unbeatable for Catalans, it is a budget that actually improves the previous one, but it is not the budget we want. You tell us: let's deal with it and amend it. [[The Minister of Finance, Montero Quadrado, makes negative gestures]] Yes, yes, Minister, I have no right to reply and therefore I do so myself. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Yes, it is that being in the Joint Group brings with it that we have also been expropriated of the right to reply because, Madam President, we have accumulated it in this turn. In any case, Minister, you have time to rectify. We do not ask them to go where they have not been; we simply ask them to do the exercise of returning on Thursday and trying to agree that we can talk about everything. Do not listen to those who are asking for elections and do not hold us responsible for the elections and for the non-approval of the budget, Minister and Mr President. No, this is entirely up to you. [[The Minister of Finance, Montero Quadrado, makes negative gestures]] Yes, Minister; yes, Mr President. It's entirely up to you. If you go back to where you were and we close up being able to talk about everything - I don't ask you to agree, but to talk about everything - this will be very easy. If there is no budget, it will not be for the Democratic Party, it will not be for the Catalan independenceists, it will be because you - and these electoral calculations you reproach to the right I understand that you also make them from the government - believe that it is beneficial that there can be early elections. If there are early elections - which was what asked for this historic demonstration of 45 000 or 200 000 people - if every time 200 000 people go out on the street, it is not the responsibility of eight members of the Democratic Party, it is the sole responsibility of the President of the Government and of the Government. Finally, Madam Minister, you said that in your process these budgets have been open to the parliamentary groups and that you have spoken with all of them, even seems to have spoken with the People's Party, but this parliamentary group has at no time offered dialogue, at no time. You now appeal to us to approve the budget, but you have taken the budget to approval without commenting on a comma of the budget and you have come to this debate without commenting with this parliamentary group or a cent of the budget. Therefore, going up here to make certain speeches - yours too; and some clearly more aimed at elections than strictly budgetary debate - is their responsibility. [[Addressing the People's Parliamentary Group]] In any case, I insist, you have time, little because we have spent a few hours absolutely absurdly, but if you understand that you can go back to Thursday morning, if from Thursday morning to Friday there was time, there is also from Tuesday to Wednesday. In short, everyone knows that the responsibility for tomorrow's amendments to the whole is not with the Democratic Party, and I dare say that neither with the Republican Left, but with his Government, which, I believe, wants elections as much as with Mr Rivera or with Mr Casado. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Wait a minute. Any time, Mr. Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u150	Thank you very much, Madam President. The first budget bill of Pedro Sánchez implies the return to the steps of the indiscipline in the management of the public accounts, the return to the misadjustment that ended up dragging millions of workers to unemployment, to territorial discrimination, to the collecting maneuver of the taxation... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u151	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u152	In short, to the policy of uncontrolled spending that led to the former socialist government, as a final and pathetic demeanor of that disastrous stage, to the express reform of article 135 of the Constitution. With such ruinous precedents, and despite warnings of economic instability, the government has committed a terrible budget project by 2019. The squandering of public resources to pay off favors of the censorship... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u153	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u154	... is perceived in accounts that disregard the constitutional principles of equality and solidarity, just as they describe equal treatment with their territories. They are negotiated budgets with those who threaten Spain's unity while denigrating the quality of our democracy to the world. They just remembered. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u155	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u156	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is preceded by the colossal squandering of the 2018 public accounts that Mr Sánchez promised to comply with. You've missed your word. Poor budget implementation has led to a waste of time and resources, slowing down a good path of economic growth, job creation, modernization and improved care in essential public services throughout the country. Spain has suffered this, but especially in Asturias and it is enough to see the most recent data on unemployment, the labour force rate or indicators such as that we are the only community that in forty years did not double GDP or that the youth exodus is dramatic. And what is the government's response to correct this decadent course? A budget that detracts from investments, expands projects over time, forgets the commitments and, when it does not cancel, subtracts the effort that had already taken place in this XII Legislature and whose momentum Forum was involved in ensuring that the progress of Spain is also that of all its territories. I emphasize it, everyone's without exception, so that no one is more than anyone. Minister of Finance, on the same morning that you delivered this bill to Congress, the government's resignation from the reform of autonomous financing was disclosed; a system that has been in place since 2009, since Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero took it forward through concessions to the Catalan tripartite. The Autonomous Communities of the Common System now see how they want to re-edit the privilege of increasing for Catalonia by 8.1% for their essential services, while for the others only 4.9% is reserved. Is this equality, is this treating the Spanish in terms of equality and equity, Mrs Montero? This socialist formula, which is very damaging to Asturias, is in addition to other decisions, announcements and oblivions which reflect budgetary investments. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u157	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u158	The Ministry of Development delegates Asturias to the status of railway ghetto and stops in León the high speed enjoyed by the rest of the Spaniards. It is essential that Oviedo and Madrid connect in 2 hours and 30 minutes via the European track width through the Pajares variant. They are dwindling budgets to tackle the very serious national problem of population ageing and the demographic crisis that has the worst European indicators in Asturias. These are budgets that make aid to the electro-intensive industries useless for indirect costs of CO2; a sector with thousands of jobs, at the height of the energy decisions of a fundamentalist, occurring, unthinkable, run-down and lethal ecological policy, which has already taken coal mining and basins ahead, and is dragging coal mining and coal mining to the closure of power generation power stations and without an alternative to their regions. I'm done. Spain needs a budgetary tool that responds to the major priorities, and it needs a government that is not subject to the secessionists. With this amendment to the whole Forum it also calls for a general election for a new Government to work to promote growth and employment, correct inequalities, promote social cohesion and ensure the welfare state by beginning with pensions for our elders. The Asturians need more than any other autonomous community of that good government, and Spain also needs Asturias, like all the others without exception. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u159	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u160	Thank you, Madam President. What a rally, Minister! This is not The 3000 Housings of Seville, but the Congress of Deputies, and you are the Minister of Finance presenting budgets. [[Protests.- Several Members say words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u161	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u162	I can't understand how this government has a president... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u163	Wait a minute, Mrs. Oramas. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence! Only the person who is currently occupying the rostrum can speak.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u164	I cannot understand how this government has a president and ministers who do not read the laws. Basically it does the same, because in this country there is an old principle that says that ignorance of the law does not exempt it from compliance. It is sad that, within a few months of being passed, the laws of the Canary Islands' Statute of Autonomy and the Canary Islands' Economic and Fiscal Regime have been disregarded by this government. So sad, Mr President, that you did not go to the institutional act of the new statute held in the Canary Islands and did go hours later as secretary general of the PSOE to an act of your party on the islands. That gesture defines his concept of institutional responsibility better than a thousand words. In the Canary Islands you have the idea that Madrid does not know us, there was a time when it was so, but no longer hangs. There is no morally decent being who considers legal asymmetry against macho violence or what we spend on removing architectural barriers to disability as a privilege. Similarly, it is impossible for anyone to consider structural compensation to be a privilege for two million citizens living in the middle of the Atlantic 1500 kilometres from here. That's why I no longer swallow it, Your Honor, it's not about ignorance, it's just contempt. The first time may be a mistake, even the second time a waste, but the third time is contempt, and whenever it is Canary Islands the same mistakes are made, with Canary Islands, unfortunately, it always rains on wet. Ladies and gentlemen, the Canary Islands are being trampled repeatedly by a government that seems to be just a peninsular, because it does not want to know the reality of the island territories; a government that treats unequals equally and, even worse, a government that is proving to be very weak with the strong and very strong with the weak. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I am talking about a government that has the power to tell us that aid to equalize the citizens of the Canary Islands with those of continental Spain is part of the ordinary financing and investment, that it has the power to tell the representatives of a land that is still at the head of the worst unemployment indicators that we are privileged and that it has a president with the sensitivity of a stone, able to tell us what we complain about if we are treated as a king's body because we are paid a part of the passages and the cost of light, as if it were a alms. It's outrageous. Ladies and gentlemen, there are some socialist comrades of yours... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u165	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u166	...that they say that the canarian nationalists are interested in the madness in the face of the May elections. Do you know what I'm saying, Mr. Sanchez? Take away the reason, treat the canaries well, leave us without arguments and without folly, you comply with the law and comply with the two million canaries, which are the ones that matter; so it annoys us in the elections, but it does not annoy our land. We are not going to ask this government to open a bilateral dialogue table with the Canary Islands, nor are we going to demand that there be a neutral mediator to intervene in the meetings. We are not going to practice institutional disloyalty, but I am going to issue a warning, Mr President, all acts have consequences. This government is sowing the seed of confrontation, in an unacceptable way violating the historical rights of the Canary Islands, and who sows winds, ends up collecting storms. Mr Sánchez, what you are doing with Canarias is unworthy of a President of the Government of Spain. [[Rumors]] The Canary Islands have always made policies within the framework of respect for the institutions...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u167	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u168	... But what you are demonstrating with your actions is that you are able to better understand yourself with those who want to break the state than with those who are willing to defend it and bet on it. I know very well that today we do not have the power of votes in this House, the voice of the Canary Islands right now is the voice of reason, not of force, but, if you do not hear today the voice of reason, one day you will end up listening to the voice of force. Do not commit that historical irresponsibility, the canaries are patient but not foolish, and if you condemn them to forget, if you punish them with contempt, you will receive the answer you deserve, do not doubt it. Mr President, you have refused to dialogue with the institutions of my land, you have turned your back on the extended hand of the President of the Canary Islands, you and your Government despise the Canary Islands and violate their historical interests. Do not push us to the mountain, Mr Sánchez, because it will not be good for the Canary Islands, nor will it be good for Spain. I'm done. Mr President, scientists have found that the more a star shines, the shorter his life is. Let me tell you that lately your political star is glowing very intensely. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u170	I make it clear that this is not an amendment to the whole. Let's be clear. This morning, Compromís has submitted a request that I repeat from the rostrum, and that is that the amendments as a whole are voted on separately. We do it in many autonomous parliaments. There is a precedent in this House, on 27 October 2004, when the president said that the majority agreement of the groups was the one that decided whether or not to vote separately. I think it would be much clearer, much more honest, because, frankly, I do not see the PP voting for an amendment from Esquerra or the PDECAT, and I do not see it the other way around either. Let each amendment have the support it must have. Ladies and gentlemen, if the majority of the House wants it, I think we can bring clarity and, moreover, it would not be a problem, because instead of voting once we would vote six, but in three or four minutes we would have fixed it. The president said that we were trying to talk about budgets, but we have seen in recent weeks, even in today's debate, that this was not much of a budget. This goes right without saying that the government has lost, does not support it and does not conceive it, because it thinks that the government is its own and that they have taken it away from it, and wants to get it back at all costs and do whatever it takes, without any kind of scrutiny, even if it has to lie, punctuate, confront some citizens against others, turn into shit - with forgiveness - and soil the prestige of this Parliament. In short, if there is an illegitimate government here, the Constitution gives them a mechanism: the motion of censure. Do it! Make a motion of censure. Dare! We've seen lies this last time, and there's a loud one, Sunday's, insulting intelligence. The manifesto, according to the Deputy Secretary of Information of the People's Party, had a great deal of truth. What part of truthfulness did the manifesto have? 50%? So the other part of the manifesto was a lie? How much lie did the manifesto have? 50%? More? Is it legitimate to take citizens out on the street knowing you're going to tell them lies? Is it ethical, is it honest, is it honest? Is it decent to appeal to the feelings of people with a sart of premeditated lies without providing either a single solution or a single one? Is it advisable, even, to confront citizens only for electoral interests, to draw a line between good and bad? His vision of Spain is respectable, as respectable as mine or as that of any of the Members of Parliament here, but his idea of a state is not the only one. This country is not yours, this country is plural, it is diverse, it is rich and here we all fit. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u171	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u172	Don't worry, President, that half of my time is about budgets. Last week we heard thick words: high treason. I think they crossed all reasonable lines. Betrayal is asking for the trust of citizens to rule and then take advantage of everyone's money and spend it on acts of your own party. Betrayal is Punic, it's Gürtel, it's Brugal, it's the F1, it's the pope's visit, it's the case Cooperation, it's the case Taula, it's, gentlemen of the PP, Paquí Palla, money 'p'here' and money 'p'there'. That's treason. [[Applauds]] Betrayal can't be talking. Betrayal is not talking, betrayal is using the police to steal evidence that incriminate your own party: Bárcenas case; betrayal is contributing to creating a problem for electoral interests and then letting it rot - Catalonia -; betrayal is, in short, facing citizens, punctuating public life and not seeking a single solution to your country's real problems. No; betrayal can never be dialogue. Talking is the only democratic, reasonable, civic way to start solving problems, because, paraphrasing Augusto Monterroso again: when the trial was over, the dinosaur was still there. Gentlemen 'Pablo Rivera' and 'Albert Casado', or to the contrary it gives, less testosterone and more calm, less flags and more proposals, less homelands and more'matrias'. And now let's talk about budgets. These budgets are better than those of the PP and Citizens. I hold him as a citizen and as a Valencian, and look at me as I'm little suspect in being a PSOE. This very week a Valencian newspaper said: Compromís passes the attack on Sánchez. I think they're overreacting, but anyway. [[Laughter]] These budgets are not the ones that wanted Compromise, they are not. It seems to us that they remain short with the Valencians and the Valencians and that is why we want to give them the opportunity to process themselves; to negotiate and improve them; to have a Valencian accent; to have compensation for this under-financing of years; to compensate the farmers who have lost everything with orange, Minister of Agriculture; to have worthy budgets with the metropolitan transport of Valencia, with the mistreatment of Alicante or with the connections to the AP-7. That is why we have not tabled an amendment as a whole, because we want to give them a chance to be better. These budgets are much more social than those made by the PP and Citizens, increase spending on pensions, social security, housing, education, health, infrastructure, culture, justice, employment and gender-based violence. Yes, in gender-based violence; Mr Rivera is not to be blamed on the work of all the Members of this Parliament, because it is an agreement of all the Members. [[Applauds]] Don't let Citizens take over everyone's work. Yes, in many cases we would like the rise to be greater, but PP and Citizens prevented there from being a higher spending ceiling that would have gone to the autonomous communities. I'm finishing up. As Valencian I will say that all the budgets of the PP have been below our demographic weight; the investment per capita has always placed us last or last; the budgets of 2017 - said the president of the Confederation of Business of the Valencian Community - are a stick, are a stick for the Valencian Community. I still remember the deputy and now a candidate for President of the Valencian Generalitat, Mr Toni Cantó, breast-feeding for a small fine, a small fine of 10 million, as if he had achieved the moon, and saying that Citizens were useful to the Valencians. There were 10 million, and these budgets increase by almost 450 million, forgive the Navy's debt and, in addition, there are 38 million for metropolitan transport. A reflection for Mr Cantó - who is not here and who has a voice that I would have liked to hear today - and for the deputies and deputies of the Valencian People's Party and Citizens' Party: they are going to lay down better budgets for the Valencians and they are going to allow for the extension of budgets that the Confederation of Business of the Valencian Community described as a stick. I'm done, Madam President. A final reflection on all the Members, all the parties: the management for the approval of these budgets by the PSOE is clearly improved, I repeat, clearly improved, being friendly, but if tomorrow these budgets are rejected and the budgets of the PP and Citizens, of Rajoy, Rivera and Mr Cantó, are extended, how will the citizens live, better or worse? Worse, worse; I have it clear as a citizen and as a Valencian. There is time to reject the budgets, but it will all be over if the PP and Citizens amendments come out tomorrow. Compromise is clear: we will give a chance to dialogue, negotiation and accountability. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u173	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u174	Pick it up on. Good afternoon. Twenty-two years after the Supreme Court first judged the entire political leadership of a party, the national table of Herri Batasuna, by issuing a video with a proposal to resolve the political conflict in which Euskal Herria lives, the members of the Government are tried in that same court for convening a referendum. In both cases, with multiple differences between themselves, the same anti-democratic Spanish State, willing to impose at any price the unity of Spain, judges and seeks to criminalize the right of Basques and Catalans to decide their future. That is why Euskal Herria Bildu feels that this trial is not alien to him. I therefore take advantage of this rostrum to send all our support and affection to the defendants and their relatives. We are with them and we are convinced that this trial will serve to visualize before Europe and the world the lack of democracy in Spain, ready to impose harsh prison sentences on leaders who have done what all in politics should have as their goal: to give the voice to the citizenry and to respond to the mandate of it when it is pronounced. Neither then, in 1997, nor now the trial will be able to silence the desire for self-determination of Basques and Catalans, will there continue to be a political conflict that a responsible government should address from the point of view of politics and statesmanship. Today we cannot say that we have some hope that the Spanish Government will have the political intelligence to do so. In the face of the rift and overaction of the right-wing trident by the mere possibility of opening the dialogue, the Government responds by saying that it will never admit the right to self-determination, and we ask ourselves: what then is the PSOE road map to mark distances with the right that bets on democratic involution? And it is that the only way to deal with the risk of democratic involution posed by the right is to build an alternative that addresses the challenges presented to the State with different, bold proposals, not mere cosmetic touches. And this in all areas, in the territorial issue, in the prison policy and in the shielding of social rights, and not get involved, like the right, in the Spanish flag. It is in this context that we discuss these budgets, and in Euskal Herria Bildu we want to know to do what the government wants the support of the House. Is it to seek a dialogue solution to the territorial issue or to impose the unity of Spain? Is it to change the prison policy because it is a thing of the past, as Minister Marlaska said in Donostia, or not to move and continue to be proud not to make prominent movements, as did the same Minister of the Interior in the Senate, insisting that they have brought only twenty and none to Euskal Herria? Is it to end impunity for the crimes of Francoism beyond blows of effect, such as Franco's exhumation, or is it for superficial changes and, at the same time, to continue without taking away the decorations of police officers convicted of serious human rights violations, such as in the case of Billy the Child? How long will they continue to study how to remove these decorations without making any concrete? You have more than a hundred cases to act on; do more than answer the uncomfortable questions of this Member by throwing balls out. Do they want to put a stop to the humanitarian drama of immigrant refugees who are playing their daily lives in search of a better future or will they continue to hinder ships such as Aita Mari or Open Arms from doing the work of governments and saving lives because they are uncomfortable witnesses of what happens in the Mediterranean every day? I have more questions. Is it to shield social rights, to work for social justice or to recover a small part of the setback, not to reverse cuts and implement partial measures? I will cite some examples - I would have many more, but I have little time -. On the issue of housing, you do not want to act on rental prices; you continue to protect the bank and what you propose does not curb the abuses of this one, nor does it help those who have serious difficulties in having a roof under which to live. Pensions are revalued on the basis of the CPI, but without armoring them by law. Minimums are raised by 3 %, an insufficient measure if a minimum pension is not established to cover basic needs. The sustainability factor and the reforms that are being implemented are not abrogated by balancing the system by spending less in the long run, rather than by providing it with resources to ensure the public pension system. In the area of employment, there is no determination to tackle temporality and precariousness, which are the main causes of increasing poverty. Nor do they want to repeal the two labour reforms, only to make small changes in order, under no circumstances, to put an end to statehood, which prevents the workers of Euskal Herria from negotiating and agreeing on their working conditions, nor to the measures that facilitate dismissal. In promoting equality, it is good that paternity permits are extended to take steps towards equality with maternity, but this measure responds to a small part of the problem; it is necessary to intervene in many other areas such as the Aliens Act or the regime of domestic workers. And what does the PSOE, the government, propose? The delay in the recognition of the rights of these workers and the approval of a system of contributions which will multiply undeclared work and exacerbate difficulties in a sector with a high rate of irregularity. Resources were being put in place for the Covenant against Gender-based Violence, but the problem remained unaddressed in all its dimensions. Not all Machist violence is yet contemplated; the way to end it is to invest in equality and these budgets invest quite little in equality, the truth. They incorporate a report on gender impact of budgets, but it is very superficial. In fiscal policy, within the overall focus, partial measures that hardly lead to progress in progressivity. Incentives are introduced for companies to increase the presence of women on boards of directors, i.e. to enforce the law. We believe that people's rights are not protected by prioritizing large infrastructures, increasing defence spending or in the Royal House, even less so if these investments, as in the case of Nafarroa, are mostly for two projects such as the high-speed train and the regrowth of Yesa, widely answered by the Navarra citizen, and in addition, in parallel, the Navarro government is prevented from investing the surplus achieved in the previous exercise in the policies that the territory needs. We ask them whether they also want our support to continue to protect autonomous and local institutions that have proven to manage their accounts better than the State itself and to limit their margin of manoeuvre even further, as you do in the budget with the autonomous communities, or whether you are going to comply with the statute and the improvement and we really have to believe that timetable you have proposed. I'm finishing up. As you see, we have many questions and no answers, since you have not even tried to seek our support. You'll know why you do it. They are ultimately responsible for the approval of budgets. You will know whether it is to continue to build your story, where the rejection of the budgets was appropriate and for which you prepared to take out the minimum wage, the revaluation of pensions and the rise of civil servants' salaries.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u175	Mrs. Beitialarrangoidia.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u176	We - I finish with this sentence - will be consistent with what we have been defending until today and will not support the processing of budgets. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u177	Thank you very much. Mr Alli Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u178	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President of the Executive, members of the Government of Spain, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, how it is noted that there is no presence of Basque nationalism in Navarre that has to come from Guipúzcoa to ask for the Foral Community of Navarre. In any case, before we enter the debate in which we are here, which is about the General Budgets of the State, even if it does not seem so after listening for hours to all the previous speakers, what I am going to say is that UPN is not going to raise its voice at any time in this speech. What I do have to say, as a political context at the moment our country is living, is in essence that this legislature is exhausted, that the XII Legislature is exhausted and that the President, Mr Sánchez, knows it, the members of the executive and, above all, civil society already discount it. Mr Sánchez, I want you to record in the Diario de Sesiones - I have once told you in this rostrum, but I have a real interest in your knowledge - that the Navarro People's Union considers you to be a legitimate President of the Government of Spain, because you used an instrument within the Spanish Constitution. What I also have to say, Mr President, is that you have forgotten that you are ruling with eighty-four Members and you have made a parliamentary front whose only mortar, which unites them and you, is the expulsion of the previous government, and what 21st-century society is demanding is not to expel, but to build. The society of the twenty-first century is not demanding to shout or insult or give the dialectic knives and knives that we are listening to in recent months; what is demanding us is to know how to compromise, know how to compromise, know how to dialogue, know how to look to the future and be moderate. In this regard, I would like to encourage you to read an article published by journalist José Murugarren this weekend in a written media media entitled "Moderation is not fashionable." But it is not the fault of civil society, ladies and gentlemen, it is the fault of political leaders, because moderation is not weakness, on the contrary, it is leadership to face the challenges of the 21st century, and that is why we are here. I tell you again what I told you last May 31st, the day you won the motion censor: Let's give a voice to democracy. Let us give a voice so that the Spaniards can put here again another photograph, with another representation, with other attitudes, with other colors and with other ideas to face the challenges that our society has. Finally, of course, Madam Minister of Finance, Mrs Montero, I would like to mention the General Budgets of the State. I want to give a reason why the Navarro People's Union has not tabled an amendment to all these general budgets. I want to say it for the Journal of Sessions. We believe that these general budgets bring what UPN has demanded of the previous government for seven years, which is to return benefits, which eliminated that famous decree-law of the year 2012, which practically repealed the agreed level of funding for the autonomous communities, in this case for the Foral Community of Navarre, in terms of dependency, support for persons with disabilities, support for the elderly, support for people with mental health problems, etc. It is true that these budgets bring it, as well as the school grants and, as I must say, the benefits for unemployed persons over fifty-two years old or long-term unemployed. However, I will also give you three reasons why we are going to vote in favour of these amendments to all the general budgets, which are the following. Firstly, if we stick to the revenue heading - and this is not what the Navarro People's Union says, as the Spanish Government's own technicians, the AIReF technicians and even the European Commission's technicians say - there is a gap, a gap between revenue and expenditure of between EUR 10 billion and EUR 17 billion. That, I think, is more than enough reason to not trust us and therefore to vote against these general state budgets. Secondly, in the face of a more than predictable economic slowdown that all the indicators are pointing out, you are supporting the rise in the tax rate to the Spanish, especially to the middle classes and working families. And there is one more reason, which I cannot ignore as a Member of Parliament for the Navarra constituency and as a proud Navarra, and it is that there are some budget items included in last year's State General Budgets Act that have not been complied with with by the Navarra Foral Community. For these three reasons, we will vote in favour of these amendments as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u179	Thank you very much. Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u180	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon to everyone, Minister of Finance and Mr President of the Government. This debate on budgets, if one can call it that, is taking place in a scenario of political turmoil which has motivated the fact that little has been said here about budgets and that unusual coincidences are taking place in the vote between forces which have little to do with each other. This does not cease to be unusual and troubling. This environment is also worrying because we are probably going to miss the opportunity to improve the serious problems facing the Canary Islands and the Spanish State as a whole. New Canarias announces that what it is going to formulate in this process is a abstention, and we explain ourselves. In the budgets of 2017 and 2018 New Canarias made an amendment to the whole and supported another to the draft General Budgets of the State because it did not share the general policies, since it insisted on austerity policies that we had fought throughout all previous legislatures. However, in the process of amendments we made many proposals which were supported by the vast majority of the House - that is, they would not be whimsical - and which ended up having the best budgets in the history of the Canary Islands in the recent Spanish democratic history. For the first time in history, Spanish budgets put the Canary Islands in the average of investments, as the Economic and Fiscal System has been saying since 1991. Thus, we obtained 75% of the subsidy for human trafficking, 100% for the traffic of goods, resources against poverty - something unusual in the Spanish budget history - support for the recovery of the Comprehensive Employment Plan of the Canary Islands, save the future of the agricultural sector, etc. In 2019, this draft budget is probably the best draft budget that has been presented from the canarian perspective. Why? Because it collects many of the previous conquests and, moreover, because we share the general policy that illuminates it. We agree that income policies need to be underpinned by increasing public revenues by ensuring that there is a tax justice process. Here you have to pay more for the ones you have most. We have already heard today that if they are tried to charge more they leave. If they leave, we will always pay the same, that we are the middle classes and the working classes. We therefore understand that this policy is the right one. And the same goes for spending policy. We believe that there is a policy of spending aimed at empowering major public policies, social policies and public investment, in short. That is why it seems to us perfect that a very significant effort should be made in dependence, which means, by the way, that in the Canary Islands action will be taken against the drama we have, for our misfortune, which is the worst provision of dependency services by the Spanish State. The same applies to public housing policy or the fight against child poverty. Now, from the canary point of view, we tell you one thing. We demand respect for the rights and statutes of the other communities and, to the same extent, we must demand respect for our own. In these budgets, with an Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands approved by almost all of us three months ago and with a new statute, it is necessary to comply with the requirements of our future, because that means respecting what was there, correcting what was missing and adding those issues which, being in the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands, are binding on these budgets. That is why we have proposed that road policy needs to be corrected after a completely inadequate agreement between the Government of the Canary Islands and the State; that anti-poverty policies need to be recovered; that the protection of the agricultural sector, etc., needs to be restored. For all these reasons, we believe that in the process of amendments - if we get there, and we are very afraid that we will not, for what we have seen today - we will have an opportunity to correct those items and to turn these budgets back into the best budgets in history for the Canary Islands and I believe that, in recent history, for the Spanish State. For the Canary Islands it is very simple, because abuse has been the norm throughout the recent Spanish democratic history. For this reason, we believe that it is an opportunity to demonstrate that other policies other than austerids are possible, which have generated inequality and poverty in the Spanish State. Now, the question would be to have the opportunity to prove it to ourselves. We are going to abstain on the criterion that it is necessary to recognise the Canary Islands' singularities and to respect budgetary commitments. We have already received the good news that the fiscal singularities of the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands have been corrected in the draft budgets, so that we cannot treat ourselves as unequal. That's good news. They'd be missing more. I hope that it will be possible to reach that process. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u181	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u182	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have witnessed in this last part of today's debate a coral intervention that I believe is the best demonstration of the plurality of this country because, beyond understanding the autonomous positions and the legitimate territorial needs, all of them necessary - each of the groups that have intervened has raised the singularity of each of the territories - I believe that we can share our constitutional vocation, sometimes in positions that differ from the vision of this Government by some of the speakers in the Joint Group, but that I understand that in their entirety they allow us to integrate this model of country that we want into each of those personal claims of each of the territories. I have to confess to you that I have a strong autonomous conviction that has always accompanied me, since I forged myself in the idea of the new Spain that emerged from the transition and that was placed in the Constitution. I firmly believe in the state of self-government, in the advantage of decentralization, in the construction of a country where the autonomous communities are as much a state as the General Administration or local corporations and I share the breadth and polyhedrism of our state of self-government, I have discussed it with all of you sometimes from another position, and I believe it is essential to bring this wealth to today's debate. But the institutional loyalty of the General Administration to the other components of the State also consists in bringing the umbrella of equity to the decisions of the General Administration of the State and of autonomy. The central government has to play a role as an arbitrator, a modulator, with the aim of bringing a global look, adjusting inequalities and allocating resources where they are most needed, and this because, if not, we would have the temptation to look only at the legitimate interest, I insist, of each of the autonomous communities without raising our gaze and without looking at globality. I would say that even sometimes - I have to say with regret - we have entered into a sort of territorial competition, perhaps individualistic and short-sighted, where it would seem, above all on the part of some, that the identity of the autonomous communities is not built by itself, but rather that it is faced with the aggravation or from other territories, and I believe that those who have participated in this debate about Spain of autonomy share with me that this is not the project we defend and that this is not the Spain in which we believe. There was a vignette of Mafalda standing in front of a map and wondering: where should we push for this country to move forward? I would say that the answer is that it is clear that it will not go forward if all the autonomous communities do not push in the same direction and attend to the overall project of the country, and much less if each, in their legitimate aspiration to amend the budget, does not take into account the inequalities, which are different depending on each of the territories of Spain, and therefore also the vocation of all to combat the inequality resides where it resides. I would say that the state of self-government, the constitutional architecture of self-government in which I militate, is not the dysfunction in which territorial claims are becoming. I believe that there is a problem in this country with regard to the model of autonomous financing, a complex problem, a problem that had to be addressed too many years ago, and that there is a general underfunding of all the autonomous communities, although I have to admit that in some with particular intensity and therefore a tension in providing basic public services and in policy making, because I always like to remember that autonomous administrations are not mere service providers, they are also political administrations that have the right and the obligation to make policy. Believe me, I am a strong advocate of this construction and it is about all the autonomous communities exercising their powers from equity so that there are no dysfunctions depending on where the services are provided. Therefore, in my heart it is correcting inequalities that occur by the mere fact of being born in one place and not in another. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful for the overall view that some of the participants in the debate by the Joint Group have been able to move and also for the need to bridge the territorial gap - in addition to what we have commented this morning - which generates the inequality that may exist between one territory and another. Ladies and gentlemen, this equality, this equity that is pursued by this government, is built by achieving a living interprofessional minimum wage where the citizen lives in Spain, a re-evaluation of pensions, the abolition of the pharmaceutical co-payment or the minimum living income. And I know that the autonomous leaders live as their own these conquests that the budget can put to them, whatever the Administration that drives it. It could continue with unemployment, paternity, scholarships or food aid. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the realization of these rights, of a more social, fairer or more equal State, the option of returning to people what they have lost during the crisis, is what this budget represents, a budget that puts the emphasis on people rather than on brick or asphalt. That, ladies and gentlemen, is also to vertebrate Spain. I would like to think, because that was the vocation of these budgets, which was beginning to translate that autonomous feeling that the President of the Government in the investiture session moved. Its commitment was that until the reform of the funding model, the autonomous communities would have greater resources, greater political leadership and, ultimately, the role that this Government and this party had always believed they had. Also, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that you have appreciated, despite the differing views within the Joint Group, the change of course that these accounts represent, that they take into account this constitutional construction and that they bet on it. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the state of self-government is the guarantee of the welfare model; the one that attacks the state of self-government is attacking fundamental public services. I think we need to improve their financial autonomy and strengthen these public services; we need to restore the sense of politics for people and to recognize these services as their own, to legitimise them, to be willing to finance them and, therefore, to become that mattress of equality that allows us all, at least in essence, to have the same aspirations. I read a couple of weeks ago in a media outlet how in recent years private insurance had grown by 10% in this country. We already warned, that was the road map of the right: dismantling public services, impoverishing them, making people begin to feel that they are not responding and, ultimately, having to resort to private insurance in order to have the quality levels they understand they deserve and, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, to transfer these people to private health, leaving public health as in a kind of charity. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that all those who have intervened - perhaps some do not share it - are advocates of the revitalization of public services, which have been weakened during times of crisis, and of the need for quality public services, capable of responding to the middle class of this country, which is the one that best and most contributes to their financing and, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, to use them and to be proud of them. That is why we have to reverse this situation, we have to improve autonomous financing and we have to bet on autonomy. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that this budget will lead to the beginning of that path which we have to go on together. There is an increase in the financing of territorial administrations of more than EUR 8400 million, an increase that would have been more than EUR 25 billion if the People's and Citizens' Party had not usurped in the Senate, and precisely to the autonomous communities, the margin given them by the new fiscal path. I would have liked your ladies and gentlemen to have spoken on this matter, because I can tell you that this government has fought it and has fought it a lot. I could continue to give examples of why budgets are good for the autonomous communities and why they are the demonstration that we believe in decentralization and autonomy, but, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that these areas must be exercised with institutional loyalty, that is, with the efforts of all and trying to reach agreements. Some of those who have come to this rostrum have told me that these budgets marginalize the Canaries, the Navarros, the Asturians. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is you who will have to explain in your territory that these budgets, far from discriminating against anyone, have put the family at the centre of the debate and, in addition, are budgets that look to people's eyes, respond to their claims and bring those budget lines that give more opportunity to development and justice. Mr Bel, spokesman for the PDECAT, for a dialogue to be real and honest, must start as much as possible, as credible, and his lordship and his political formation knew from the very first moment that this government was not going to put on the agenda of any table the right of self-determination. You have also made a reference in this rostrum to the fact that people who are being prosecuted are being prosecuted for having ideas or for making an approach. No, Mr. Bel, these people are being prosecuted, unfortunately, because they broke the law. That is the question and that is what needs to be clarified at this time. Of course, it is necessary to give everyone the presumption of innocence, but when justice brought them it was for this reason. You want to give the false idea that in this country those who think differently politically are being persecuted and, Your Honor, it is my duty as an executive and as a government not to let go of that statement. Mr. Bel, this government has wanted to re-establish the bridges that had been dynamized, has tried to restore them and restore sanity. I refer to the facts, I used to tell Mr Tardà, there has been more dialogue in eight months of this government than in Mr Rajoy's term of office and half. This Government has convened the bilateral commission contained in the statute, which had not met for seven years. It has put an end, through the Joint State-General Commission for Economic Affairs, to historical claims of the Catalan Executive, such as the Supreme's ruling recognizing the investment deficit. An agreement on the financing of the Mossos d'Esquadra has been closed for years. In short, progress has been made and more can be achieved if you abandon that unilateral position, but Mr. Bel, I have to repeat to you the same thing I said to Mr. Tardà: if you subject the dialogue to putting on the agenda the right to self-determination, then there is no room for discussion, it is you who rise from the table. And, Your Honor, you spoke during your Defence intervention and I must tell you that the amounts of Defense are extrabudgetary, do not compete with the rest of the budget. I'm telling you in case you technically didn't know. Mr. Bel, I belong to a party that in 1978 yielded one of the chairs that corresponded to him for the election results to Miquel Roca, so that that part of the political Catalanism that for years represented Convergence i Unió would also participate in the elaboration and design of the Spanish Constitution. I believe that this party is not suspected of not trying to build plural Spain in which we all want to participate. And, Your Honor, if I have blackmailed the last words that some Catalan leaders have said regarding the approval of these budgets, I give you the same arguments that I have given Mr Tardà, which I particularly think that when you make it subject to the amendment being passed to the whole to put the right of self-determination as a premise for dialogue, then, Mr Bel, you knew that you would not find us there. So sometimes I get the feeling that you want to walk down a dead end, that you want to get nowhere. I don't know if that gives you electoral revenue, I don't know, what I do know is that some of you are preventing this country from moving forward, you are preventing the rift from stopping and you are preventing a dialogue solution to the conflict in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] And the strength of Spain lies precisely in that diversity but we see that some political parties are patrimonizing the confrontation to divide and are making no effort to unite. I believe that you were part of a political current that I sincerely believe has contributed to the prosperity of Spain. The Spanish Constitution is a shared success, and it is also a success that belongs to you. This Constitution, which now seems that you do not want to respect in its full dimension, has been key to ensuring the greatest period of peace and prosperity. I only give you a figure, Mr Bel, in 1980 the per capita GDP of Catalonia at current prices was EUR 3113, today it exceeds EUR 30 000, and the disposable income at constant prices of Catalan households has doubled between 1980 and 2016. I believe that Catalonia and Spain as a whole, Mr Bel, have enjoyed this Constitution and the Constitution is the framework that enables the rules of play. I believe that many of the statements I have made to Mr Tardà, for a matter of time, can also be taken into consideration by you in relation to this reply. We have repeated on several occasions in this very rostrum that our bet is for closing wounds, for coexistence and for deepening self-government. These are the axes that mark the direction of this Government and which, in my view, allow for a broad and sincere dialogue. I believe, Your Honor, that we have said this since the first day, that we are maintaining it today and that we are maintaining it in the future. These budgets are important for Catalonia, and you know it, Mr Bel. They are budgets that reverse cuts, they are budgets that recover rights, as I have already explained in my initial intervention, but not only because of that, but these budgets are proof to show that policy, the agreement between different people, is possible. Frankly, Mr Bel, I believe that if you keep your amendment in its entirety today you are closing one of their remaining doors and making a serious mistake, as I have told the Republican Left. That is why I have been asking you all today to reflect, not to exclude yourselves from the negotiation of these budgets with requests that we could take into account in the process of amendments. You say that there is some part of the budgets that you do not fully share; well, that whole part can be discussed, but what you know that this government is not going to dialogue is what I have been telling you during today's day, the premises on which you have put the amendment to the whole, premises that you do not want to withdraw. I am not going to list again all the benefits this budget brings to the Catalans because I have transferred it to Mr Tardà but, if I may, I will ask you a question. Is a catalluña with these budgets going to be better or worse, Mr. Bel? Because that is what it is about, that policy is useful for citizens to be able to improve. Will Catalonia have worse or better funding with these budgets? Will you have more money for public investment? Will it have better infrastructure or will it have worse infrastructure? Those are the questions you ask when facing a budget. Therefore, Your Honor, I would have liked you to have supported a budget that is good for Catalonia. They will now have to explain it; they will have to explain how they are voting with Citizens and with the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen, to stop the progress of this country. [[Applauds]] It will also have to be explained by the PDECAT, not only Esquerra. [[Applauds]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, you will have to say why you are incorporating issues that have nothing to do with public accounts and why you refuse to bring to Catalonia more than 22 billion that are needed to revitalize public services, that are needed for investments and that are needed for the rest of the issues. In total, 5 billion, ladies and gentlemen, as you well know. It is true that the situation is complex and I am not going to entertain myself any longer on this subject that we have talked about for a long time during this sitting, I would simply say that I believe that in the budget agreement we have respected all the commitments that we have made with the Government in the bilateral Joint Committee; they have their budgetary reflection under the corresponding headings, both the enforcement of the judgment and the calculation on the cost of the Mossos d'Esquadra or the respect for the status of autonomy. You say, Mr Tardà, that there are a few tenths of what the status of autonomy means; well, the important thing is that this budget has grown for the Autonomous Community of Catalonia by more than EUR 900 million, which I believe was important and necessary because it is true that the investments have been abandoned during the previous period. You will have to recognise that these budgets are better for Catalonia than the budget extension. You will have to recognise it and you will have to explain why they lead us to a budget extension if the budgets are really good for Catalonia and good for Spain. That is why I say to you, Your Honor, that it would be good for you to reflect on this issue and to be able to rethink some of the issues you have said. Mr Martínez, I think you need to read the agenda for change and also the climate change law well, because I believe that many of the issues you have raised regarding the thrust of the productive model or the ecological transition are perfectly defined on the agenda for change and you will also have the opportunity to discuss them when we bring the climate change, energy and climate law to this Parliament. I am curious, Your Honor, about the mimicry, if I may, of your speech with that of the People's Party. They have pointed, as was foreseeable, to the no for the popular, but they have also pointed to the aggravation with Catalonia, as a branch of the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to draw your attention to the extent to which you have made this speech your own, because you have listed the aggravations of this budget towards your land, but you have not, for example, counted that Asturias is the autonomous community in which the General Administration of the State subsidises the highest percentage of medium-distance service tickets and neither have you spoken for anything that in the investment of the group Fomento per inhabitant Asturias is among the first regions, the fifth, if I am not mistaken, with more than 250 euros per inhabitant. This looks like you've missed it. And no, Your Honor, the reform of the autonomous financing model was stopped by your brother party. The reform of the autonomous financing model expired when the People's Party ruled, and I have not heard you here, in this forum - perhaps I lost your intervention - talking about calling for autonomous financing, talking about more investments for Asturias, as if it depended on the political colour on which it presents the budgets that you agree with or disagree with, but, frankly, without taking into account the interests of the citizens of Asturias or the interests of its autonomous community, because this project envisages 310 million euros for Asturias, which represents 22% more than the previous year. With a budget for Asturias which is 22% more than last year, if last year it was voted in favour, why not this year, Mr Martínez? [[Applauds]] It's just that there hasn't been any argument that would allow me to clear up that doubt. Therefore, there has been improvement for Asturias in these budgets. In addition, Mr Martínez, we heard you last year make some statements that investments, financing investments, did not have to become a dispute in the autonomous communities and that, therefore, it seemed to you that the rest of the political groups had to support the budget. If you looked at how Asturias is reflected in these public accounts, I am sure you would support this budget, the problem, Your Honor, is that you usually always mark the vote as indicated by the People's Party bench. [[Applauds]] Mrs Oramas, with all due respect, before you start the reply I want to give you, do you want to tell me why you said in this rostrum that I seem to be doing a rally or shouting at The 3000 Housings of Seville? What do you have with The 3000 Housings of Seville? It's a neighborhood like any other in this country. [[Applauds]] Or what do you mean, Mrs Oramas, that poor neighborhoods, like The 3000 Housings of Seville, deserve a kind of tone and non-poor neighborhoods deserve another? Are you assimilating poverty with a kind of tone? [[Mrs Oramas González-Moro: No]] [[Applauds]] I had to tell you, Mrs Oramas, because your speech divides, your speech stigmatizes and confronts; it seems that you have been infected with the right. I have the same respect for all the neighborhoods of the Canary Islands, as you also have the same respect for all the neighborhoods of Andalusia and any corner of this country, Mrs Oramas. [[Applauds]] And I'm going to answer to some statement you've made. Your Honor, I believe that these budgets represent an improvement for the Canary Islands in the autonomous financing model of EUR 5286 million, which represents an increase of EUR 410 million for the Canary Islands only in the transfers of the financing system. Your Honor, the Canary Islands is the fifth autonomous community in terms of the total planned expenditure of the Groupe Fomento; it is 34.5 % above the average per autonomous community in terms of the total expenditure of the Groupe Fomento. It is also the fourth in terms of the Group Fomento per person, with an amount of 429 euros per inhabitant residing in the autonomous community. And you have spoken in your speech that these budgets do not respect the Canary Islands, and that is disloyalty, Your Honor. I met with its president myself, I met with President Clavijo myself and spoke to him about the firm will of this government to respect the statute and the REF at all times. I also told Mr. Clavijo that if there were any literature in the law that might question or appear to be its interpretation that did not respect any of the characteristics or variables of the Canary Islands, this Government would correct or attempt to correct it. [[Mrs Oramas González-Moro: Lies]] You're telling me no, Mrs. Oramas, were you at the meeting when I spoke to Mr. Clavijo? You were not, were I, and I tell you that this is what I passed on to Mr Clavijo and that on Thursday we called the Canary Islands Presidency to move you that all the technical solutions to that issue had been found. [[applause]] Will you speak, Mrs Oramas, of Mr Sánchez's contempt for the Canary Islands? [[Consent]] Will you speak of contempt when Mr Sánchez has proposed in his autonomous community the signing of EUR 1800 million in different agreements for the Canary Islands, Mrs Oramas, EUR 1200 million in one of the agreements, more than 500 million in another agreement and more than 100 in another? [[Consent]] You nod. Can we talk about aggravation with the Canary Islands when this government was pushing even before the presentation of the budgets a commitment of 18 billion for the Canary Islands? It seems to me, Your Honor, that the truth is lacking in what you have said, because I believe that this whole executive has been working rigorously. I believe that all the ministers and ministers, and especially the Minister for Development, have worked to get those conventions to see the light and to come forward, and so far you have not signed any of those conventions. I spoke to Mr Clavijo because this agreement is good for the Canary Islands and therefore we must try to carry it forward. Therefore, our total commitment to the Canary Islands and therefore also our commitment to those things whose reading might be subject to interpretation in order to strengthen them in the process of amendments, and you know that, Mrs Oramas, and if you have not been told, I say it to you, just as New Canarias knows, because we have also spoken to them. What is happening is that you are aiming at the fashion of false news, I think you think this is going to give you electoral results and, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, you are in the short-term strategy, with a view to the elections, to see if it will allow you to consolidate your government in the Canary Islands. We feel that we do not comply with the commitments when we have shown that implementation in the Canary Islands has been above the rest of the state, Mrs Oramas. He probably did not care about all these elements in his speech, because if not, he would not have failed to convey the truth that this government was not sensitive to the Canary Islands. Mrs Oramas, I think it was you who asked in the previous debate in this House what is better, that we have new budgets with more resources or that we apply last year's ones? You said that, didn't you? To whom do you want to annoy - you continued to address my bench - the government or the citizens? Isn't the extension harmful now, Mrs. Oramas? Doesn't these budgets include more resources for the Canary Islands? What was worth then is not worth now? Does not the minimum wage, the pensions and the dependency, Mrs Oramas, which the autonomous communities are bringing to their lungs and which this budget increases dependence by 60%, now do not work for your autonomous community? Is it not good for your autonomous community, 1800 million, put on the table, of three conventions? Are you not doing well in the Canary Islands or have you changed your position because you are in the counting of votes and in political short-livedness? They're probably there. We will continue to defend the Canary Islands, we will continue to defend the Canary Islands and we will continue to bet on investment in the Canary Islands, even if you put us Chinese on the road. [[Applauds]] Mr Baldoví, I thank you for your position in favour of these budgets. I think it is a reflection of the commitment of all progressive forces to accounts that, as you said, look people in the face. I am grateful for your intervention and I especially appreciate that you have taken part in the negotiation, because it is true that with these budgets the citizens would live better. I continue to extend my hand to you, even though the budget probably does not see the light, so that some of the issues that you have transferred to us and whose incorporation into the procedure of amendments may be of interest to you in the course of the amendments are corrected. But let me make one point: you have very clearly expressed the legitimate and probably relevant claims of the Valencian Community and it is therefore fair to say from this rostrum - I have told you many times in the Commission - that one of the most important problems that Valencia has, and that this budget cannot be solved, is precisely the financing model. It is a model that has not adequately financed the autonomous communities, but that has been particularly harmful to some, specifically - you have heard it from me once - for Valencia, because if it is not the one that has been most damaged by this model of financing, it is one of the most. I do not enter any longer, Your Honor, into the entire trajectory of public accounts in your community, which I know perfectly well and which I know has also hindered, in the previous periods of the governments of the People's Party, the further development of the project that you represented and that you represent the parties that govern in the Generalitat. Budgets represent a volume of resources for Valencia of EUR 12 billion, with an increase of more than EUR 1 billion. In investments you know that it has increased by 448 million, which is 56% more, and fulfilling the population weight of the Valencian Community, which is what Les Corts were asking for. We are also growing in the financing model, 566 million, as well as in the compensation of the VAT information system, which would have allowed them to incorporate these resources into the budget. I do not want to forget, moreover, ladies and gentlemen, the metropolitan transport, because there is a 10 million item, which you were able to amend in the subsequent procedure, or the endowment of the Valencia 2007 Consortium. But, Mr Baldoví, I believe that the Botanic Pact has proved to be the best example that progressive forces can agree to improve people's lives and to promote fair, redistributive policies that allow us to continue to grow. I believe that the pact has been the finding that there can be political heights to dialogue, exchange and put the interests of citizens before themselves. It would be good if, today, the progressive forces of Spain would have understood, as did their parliamentary group, that these accounts are good for the social fabric and for the people, and that they would have put the strength of the policies that we deploy in the budgets before the interests of the parties. Therefore, Your Honor, with or without budgets, you have my commitment to continue working to improve funding in the Autonomous Community of Valencia and I thank you for the institutional loyalty of your group and also for your willingness to dialogue and negotiate. Mrs Bildu, you are going to join your vote to the right of this country. That will have to be explained to the Basques and Basques. I do not share your speech from this rostrum. I really think that these budgets are also good for the Basque Country. They are good budgets for the consolidation of the state of autonomy, and I will not tell you all the social rights that these budgets collect because I have been talking about them all day. Your Honor, I think you should have thought of addressing these budgets from that social point of view and from that point of view that makes it clear that there is a change in direction with regard to the social and economic policies of the previous executive. They have not wanted or have not been able to incorporate this type of approach and diagnosis into this issue, but you have wanted to blame this Executive on some issues that are not their responsibility. You have spoken about the Citizens' Security Act and the Historical Memory Act, but I have to tell you that they are all blocked in this House and that we cannot prevent amendments from being extended over and over again so that this issue cannot be discussed again. We've brought in a housing decree-law that looks like you missed when you talked about housing in relation to these budgets. In addition, we have reduced temporality and precariousness since the first day. I will give you a fact, Your Honor: since this measure was put into effect, more than 50,000 contracts have gone into indefinite contracts, 570 contracts a day in this country, starting from the plan presented by Minister Valerio, have gradually gone from temporary contracts to indefinite contracts. Something has been done by this Government to improve the precarious conditions of the country's workers. I say the same to you with the Gender Violence Pact and with the most damaging aspects of labour reform; this government had committed itself to dialogue with social actors and it is not understood that you link it to the presentation of these budgets. With regard to the speech by the spokesman for UPN, I thank him for his words; I acknowledge the obviousness about the legitimacy of President Sánchez. I agree with the first part of your speech but all of a sudden you have made a turn and I do not share the second part of it. I say this, Your Honor, because I am surprised at the position you have taken here if I see your intervention last year with the PP's budgets. You alerted those groups that come with the no forward - that's what you said when you went up to this rostrum -. He said that outside these doors society does not understand the fact that a political force presents a bill and there is another that votes against because it is that force that presents it. Well, Your Honor, I think I would have to apply it to you because the explanations today have gone in that direction. There are political forces - you said - as the Navarro People's Union that we come with humility and respect to this institution and we want to share this budget for the stability of the country. I would say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that it is a pity that those values which you expressed last year have depended on the political colour on which these budgets are presented and that they come with no forwards, without even leaving room for those issues which you would have understood to be important to be incorporated into the draft during the course of the process of amendments. The construction of the country conforms to all the rules adopted by this Parliament, with its vote or without its vote. To build Spain is to improve the living conditions of the Spaniards, live where they live and I believe that this Executive, in just eight months, has made an effort and reached a record of improvements that has brought to this House, with most of them approved, more than 99%. Your Honor, since the minute one we have worked - we continue to do - for the welfare of this country. This budget represents an increase in resources in Navarre, and I am also surprised that you will be voting against it. They are better budgets than those that were presented last year and, in addition, bet by all the corridors of railway connection, by roads, which were legitimate aspirations that his community had. I would also like to say, Your Honor, that they are shielded in the execution as they could have shielded in any other matter, because they have been executed almost 7 out of every 10 euros committed, even though this government has only had six months of validity throughout 2018. I repeat: Your Honor, I don't think anyone will understand why UPN is voting against these budgets. You have to measure this. It is true that we have improved the agreed level, the minimum level of dependence and that we are providing more resources to Navarre. Therefore, Your Honor, it is not understood that you are voting against, unless that depends on another type of question such as who presents the budgets or what political colour it is that comes up in this rostrum. Mr. Quevedo, I think you've met some of the elements... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you to remain silent. The stairs are to go up and down, not to sit down, please, ladies and gentlemen. Go on, minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u184	Thank you very much, President. There's little left. I just want to say to you that I think you have been more generous in recognizing how good these budgets are for the islands and for the Canary Islands you represent, and I think you know firsthand - as I told your colleague Oramas - that this Government maintains its commitment to both the Canary Islands Fiscal System and the Canary Islands Statute because we are aware of the uniqueness of the community, and you know that we have held some meeting at which the Government knew part of the reading of the draft budgets that could give rise to another interpretation, and that it had undertaken to express itself more clearly in the process of amendments so that there would be no doubt. I believe, Sir, that you have better understood the advantages of this budget, although you have announced - I think you have said - the abstention; I think you have better understood it, but I say to you, as Mrs Oramas said, that I hope that with a budget and without a budget we will continue to work together to try - as I said - that Canary Islands like the rest of the autonomous communities can actually have better funding, better opportunities for employment, better opportunity for public services and so on. I shall finish my reply to the Joint Group's speech this afternoon, in which all the groups that have tabled amendments in their entirety have finished, returning, ladies and gentlemen, and you may think that I am naive in this appeal, but I would like to do so again and I would not be calm if I did not say so at the end of my speech: I would like you to reflect on the debate that we have had in this House, on the basis of the figures provided for in the draft budgets, which you answer to the question as to whether these budgets are better for the country than the extension of the previous budgets. Above all, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to put citizens at the centre of political action, at the centre of the debate, and beyond the territorial challenges, I believe that this country deserves, even if only for a day, to talk about people's problems, to try to resolve their emergencies. Without a doubt, this draft budget is a response to those demands that citizens make us every day in our towns and cities. Undoubtedly, this draft budget is a step towards the reconstruction of the rights that citizens lost during the crisis; it is a step towards the construction of a more competitive economic model that makes investment, development, innovation, their identity signs; it is also a budget that allows to be environmentally responsible, a social budget, a budget thinking of all citizens of this country without exclusion. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that if that is the reflection and puts the citizens at the centre of the debate and their thinking, then you will withdraw the amendments as a whole and allow these budgets to be dealt with. That's what I want. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and from the members of the Government, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-12-CD190212.u185	Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was eight and forty-five minutes of the night.
