ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u1	The meeting was called to order. Prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall proceed to the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution, in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Dona Teófila Martínez Saiz, I ask Don Ignacio Romaní Cantera if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u2	Yeah, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u3	Don Ignacio Romaní Cantera has acquired the full status of MP. Congratulations, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u4	We begin, ladies and gentlemen, with the debate to take into consideration the proposed law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, an organic reform of the Organic Law 5/1985, of 19 June, of the General Electoral Regime, for the regulation of the exercise of the vote by Spaniards living abroad. Mr Villar has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a well-intentioned 2011 reform to avoid episodes of electoral fraud introduced the so-called request for a vote, but very soon it was found that this measure had serious deterrent effects on the participation of voters registered in the census of absent Spanish residents. In the general elections, there was an increase from approximately 32% in 2008 to just under 5% in 2011, keeping a close percentage in 2015 and 2016. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u6	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u7	Alarmingly similar proportions were found in the other electoral processes to which this measure applies. The Socialist Party reacted in 2012 with an unequivocal mandate to abolish the requested vote and improve the conditions for the participation of Spanish voters abroad, so our group has been reiterating parliamentary initiatives in this regard in successive legislatures. That is why he has also worked intensively in which he now ends up in the subcommittee on electoral reform, in order to reach a general agreement with the other groups. Special moment of this commitment has been the work developed by the group of experts, created at the initiative of Minister Josep Borrell and formed by representatives of the Ministries of Foreign Affairs, Interior and Labour, Directorate General for Migration, and technicians of the Office of the Electoral Census, in dialogue and collaboration with the subcommission for electoral reform. We thank all of them for their excellent contribution. In mid-October last, the working sessions of this group ended with the proposal for reform of article 75 of the Loreg, which is substantially the one that was registered on the 8th of this month by the Socialist and United Parliamentary groups Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, when there was still room, albeit limited, for it to enter into force for the next electoral processes. The Socialist Group has tried with all its strength to agree on this proposal, but we have stumbled on the attitude of the Group of the European People's Party, which has led to the continued delay in the process for its adoption and which, at the last moment, has made public in the media a proposal purportedly self-justification, which, in addition to being unworkable for many technical reasons, puts so many obstacles or more than the current petitioned voting procedure, which would be tantamount to keeping this type of vote by the back door, pretending to camouflage it as a guarantee. This pertinent attitude, in a de facto veto, has been maintained over the course of months, despite the repeated and reasoned responses that the expert group has been giving about the unfeasibility of its claims. For its part, the Citizens' Group, out of political tacticalism, has taken off on the last stage of a favourable position to support the initiative as it is proposed, although they announce their vote in favour of its consideration. Finally, the reluctance of these two groups was strongly answered last Thursday, in a last appearance, by the president of the Central Electoral Board, who said that this reform, as presented, ladies and gentlemen, is necessary, it is orthodox, it is solvent, it has technical quality, it is well structured, it contains sufficient guarantees and, in line open by the report of the Central Electoral Board of 16 November 2016, it envisages appropriate measures so that, reasonably, the highest possible percentage of Spaniards abroad can vote and their vote can be scrutinized. After this appearance, Mr Bermúdez de Castro announced to me the vote in favour of taking account of this initiative - at good hours green sleeves!, one could say - but by suggesting to him my group the possibility of seeking unanimity between the groups, in order to be able to complete their approval before the dissolution of the Chambers, which would have been possible if there had been political will, he refused by imposing the condition that his position be fully assumed, to which I shall refer later. To its content, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal includes two fundamental measures: the elimination of the so-called requested vote and the considerable extension of the deadlines for the issuance and dispatch of votes. Because these bureaucratic obstacles, together with the dependence of foreign mail services, are the main obstacles faced by the collective of voters residing abroad to exercise their fundamental right to political participation in their country; obstacles that undoubtedly represent a comparative aggravation. The most notable measures taken to resolve this problem, in addition to the elimination of the request for a vote, are the following. On the one hand, the introduction of the blank ballot model to be completed by each elector, which allows the preparation and sending of the ballot by the Electoral Census Office, as well as the receipt of electoral documentation by the elector, much earlier than with the current procedure and before the proclamation of the candidatures, could be won in this way sixteen days. This model of ballot paper has been used in the past for local elections, continues to be used in the voting of temporarily absent Spaniards and has been suggested by the report of the Central Electoral Board. On the other hand, voting is promoted in the ballot box, extending the time limit for voting in this mode up to seven days, while under the current procedure only two days are envisaged. The voting points are also expanded under the control and custody of officials or personnel empowered to do so. On the other hand, all the current voting guarantees are maintained; in particular, special emphasis is placed and the media made available to voters on a permanent basis during the electoral process. All this also with the assurance that voters are not able to send their voting option, logically, before the candidatures proclaimed by the above-mentioned media are known. Let us now turn to the counter-proposal made by the People's Group, which was made public the day before the registration of the proposed law and after the expiry of the agreed time limit, which has been repeatedly discussed by the group of experts who consider it to be unfeasible for the following reasons. First, the dispatch of electoral documentation by diplomatic pouch is inviolable because it poses great logistical difficulties due to the enormous volume of shipments and the amount of documentation to be managed in a very short time by consular offices and local postal services. Secondly, waiting for the proclamation of the candidatures is a serious management problem, as it does not leave sufficient time for the printing of the ballot papers and for their dispatch, which would be late and would run the risk of having a large number of votes not scrutinized. Thirdly, with regard to the introduction by the People's Group of the so-called 'certificate' of the voter's identity in the event of issuing the vote by mail, it is in fact intended to keep the request for the vote by the back door hidden and even more aggravated, while requiring the voters to come to an additional instance to comply with the certificate in question. In addition, in case of recourse to the competent authorities for the legalisation or apostille of public documents in the country concerned, voters should pay the corresponding fees as well as the costs of travel. On the other hand, it should be borne in mind that these authorities usually only verify compliance with a number of formal requirements, but do not assess their content, and even less the identity of the carriers. In any case, I insist that the proposal for a law maintains the same requirements as the legislation currently in force introduced in its day, as is well known, on the proposal of the Central Electoral Board. With this proposal, in short, the Socialist Parliamentary Group reaffirms its commitment to end the request for a vote and to promote with justice the equality between Spaniards in the exercise of such a fundamental right in a democratic society as is the right to vote. For these reasons, we are addressing all groups to support this bill and we can resolve this serious problem of our electoral procedure in a fair and adequate manner. In any case, today's work is done so that it can be resumed tomorrow. Let each group assume its responsibility. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me a few words of farewell. I'm going back to college. I consider it an immense honour and a real privilege to have been able to serve as a Member, although it has been in two rather peculiar legislatures and, in my opinion, far from reaching a good place. In the exercise of my role, apart from the inevitable mistakes, I have tried to act with respect because of my political opponents, listen to their proposals and seek the possibilities of reaching agreements and commitments to face challenges and solve problems, which is what we are here for. I believe that the majority of Members share this same attitude, of course, which expresses the substance of what policy should be well understood and the objective of this democratic instrument, which is ultimately the General Courts, and I also believe that this is what most Spaniards expect of us. But, frankly, the frequent radical, stereotyped, emotionally visceral and in some cases unnecessary and unacceptablely aggressive and contagious attitude of certain political leaders and their respective environments, the gates, the sanitary cords and the successive red lines that are not the ones that draw the constitutional framework contribute to making the political climate of this country unrepeatable, but also unrepeatable, as well as to a large extent ineffective, the parliamentary channel. Call me naive, ladies and gentlemen, but let me ask you to reflect on this because it is very important to get the policy out of these wrong rails and, as Mr Miguel de Unamuno said, let us try to be more parents of our future than children of our past. I am grateful to all of you for the work we have done together, the treatment we have received and the invaluable experience we have experienced here, those who work in the different services of this House, the lawyers, my political opponents, who may be among the most learned, and especially all my colleagues in the Socialist Group. I wish you all the best success, provided that, contradicting the verses of Gil de Biedma, the story of our beloved Spain is not the saddest and ends well. Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you for your attention, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u8	Thank you very much. At the time of fixing positions, I have the floor, first of all, for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u9	Thank you very much, Madam President. Very good afternoon, everyone. We must always welcome any legislative initiative that seeks to promote the exercise of voting in elections and, more importantly, if it is to facilitate the so-called emigrant vote. However, it does not seem that it will help much at this time to promote legislative reforms of an electoral nature when the dissolution of the Courts and, consequently, the paralysis of parliamentary activity have already been announced within a week. If we consider it important to point out that any change in the electoral rules should be accompanied by a greater degree of political agreement, a consensus, which is not the case with this proposal for a law of the Socialist Group for which a broad prior agreement has not been reached, and even now the parliamentary partner of Unido Podemos, who withdrew his signature last week, has fallen by the wayside. I repeat, legislative initiatives that affect the rules of electoral play should be accompanied by an effort to seek the highest degree of prior political agreement and, if it is unanimous, the best. In any case, this proposal allows us to approach our compatriots abroad and for Forum it is essential that their rights be preserved and deepened in the maintenance of the ties that unite them with Spain, both affective and legal. In this sense, it seems to us very important to protect the effective participation through the vote of Spanish residents abroad in the electoral calls so that they can exercise it under the same conditions as those we live in Spain. Therefore, when the time comes, we will support here, in the General Courts, the reform of article 75 of the Organic Law on General Electoral Regime, Loreg, promoting equality and the same guarantees as for voters surveyed within the borders of Spain. It seems essential to us, as has been developed and defended in this XII Legislature, to review the rules of the requested vote, implemented at the time by the socialist government of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero with a formula as complicated as deterrence that should be corrected in order to increase the voting times among Spanish residents abroad, in order to promote and increase electoral participation within the emigrant collective. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u10	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Pick it up on. While it is pertinent to know that this reform cannot be dealt with, whether there is a broad agreement or not to remove the legal obstacles to exercising the right to vote that are found abroad. We all know many cases where these people have encountered serious difficulties in being able to process in time and form everything they have to fulfill in order to exercise their right, even in some cases they have arrived in time and form but the ballot papers have arrived late or incomplete. Therefore, any reform aimed at facilitating the proceedings of those outside the State is positively appreciated. Firstly, to remove the need to have to express the right to exercise the right to vote and that, without waiting for the right to vote, the documentation reaches them as well as any of us here. Alongside this important initial measure, since its implementation has led to the drop in the number of votes among those registered with the CERA, all other measures that extend the deadlines for carrying out the procedures, that increase the routes and timetables for this and even the fact that the sending of the documentation is speeded up, we understand that they will help to change the situation better. Some of these measures are likely to raise certain doubts about their effectiveness, but only by applying them will we know whether the decision is correct or need further change. What is clear is that continuing as it has been so far is not an option. We hope, therefore, that the next parliamentary term will resume the debate where the reform was and can be successfully carried out and, by the way, it would be all the more important that, since the constitution of the new Congress, other issues should also be taken into account, such as ending the backlog of the census update, shortening the deadlines for registration in the CERA or extending the deadlines for complaints and corrections of errors in the CERA, among many other issues, which we believe will also help. These and other issues will have to be raised with more time in order to remove the obstacles that today make it difficult to exercise the right to vote from abroad and, therefore, to the extent that we believe that what is approved helps to go that way, we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u12	Thank you very much. Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the requested vote, the stolen vote; that vote that over two million compatriots stole from them by the Socialist Party in 2011 at the end of their government, on the eve of an election that had already seen bad and that then, for more than seven years, the People's Party had maintained because it was right for it to do so. This is what has given us the old bipartisanship, the short boating, the instant profitability moves and electoralism; this is what we have seen. And now the legislature is over and this problem is not going to be solved. This is very unfortunate. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party and the People's Party, what will you say, for example, to my cousin Isabel Bataller, who will have to go with his son from Bremen to Hamburg to look for the consulate to vote? Or what are you going to tell my sister-in-law Eva Martínez, who will have to go with her son from Palermo to Naples to look for the consulate? Or what will you tell my friends in Belfast, who will have to take a ferry to go to Scotland, to the consulate in Edinburgh to vote? What are you going to tell them? I know, nothing, they're not gonna say anything. That is why now, at this moment when we have an initiative that is agonizingly debated, I believe that all we can do seriously is ask these people for forgiveness. I ask you on behalf of Compromís, and that which Compromís never participated in the requested vote and we were always in favour of its disappearance, but as a member of this House I believe that we owe these people a request for forgiveness. We can thank that there is now an agonistic attempt that will look very good on the headlines; we will see in the next legislature what will be done. We, in Compromís, already know: we always say yes and for free to all those proposals that, even if in a rhetorical way, serve to restore rights for people. We will also vote in this case, and I do say to you that a unanimous vote at this time would, perhaps, be the only way this House would collectively ask our fellow countrymen who are out of town for forgiveness, because I already know that the direct perpetrators of the disguise are not going to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u14	Thank you very much. Mr Xuclà i Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u15	Thank you very much, Madam President. One of the responsibilities of the public representatives is to explain things by their name; and to explain things by their name is that in 2011 a reform of the Electoral Law was voted because in the previous model there were serious errors to remedy, among others, the decrease of the deceased in the vote of the residents abroad. To tell the truth is to explain that in 2012, in the elections to the Parliament of Catalonia, we clearly detected that the 2011 model was improveable and we rectified the first change, the first chance. And we are correcting by voting in favour of a bill from the Galician Parliament to deal with what we are discussing today. In 2012, the majority of the People's Party, there was no opportunity to reform what had to be perfected. In 2016, recommendations of the Central Electoral Board. Registration in the previous legislature - two legislatures ago, the long - of an initiative of my group to amend the Electoral Law and to improve its system. And we are at a time when the legislature has been reduced to try to deceive, it is not known who, to try to amend the Electoral Law with less days than those with which the Spanish Constitution was modified, quite entrepreneurially, by imperative in the month of August. It is our responsibility to say that in this legislature there was a perfect time to make this change, when the General Courts approved the Loreg amendment to give the right to vote to persons with disabilities. It was the time when the Loreg reform was opened and it was the time when this system could be perfected. We were told that there was an open subcommission in the Constitutional Commission and that it could not be done. And now the Socialist Party marks the medal of saying: we have formed a technical group in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen - and this concludes, Madam President - the question of political will and opportunity at the moment. One of the responsibilities of politicians is not to deceive or generate false expectations. In six days before the dissolution of the Courts, this is virtually impossible. There is a model, there is an alternative, there are other options such as electronic voting. There are other options - and with this I conclude, Madam President - as the British model: fix the maximum in fifteen years of residence abroad to be able to vote, or what the anorized Txiki Benegas proposed, create a constituency of four senators representing the Spanish abroad and not distribute this representation throughout all the provinces. All this, which is very important and very serious, because the right to political representation is a fundamental right, is not resolved in time of discount. We are going to vote in favour of this consideration, let us not say that for us it is not this attempt of effort to agree, but things are done differently in time and in shape. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u16	For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u17	Thank you very much, President. We are discussing a proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the reform of article 75 of the Loreg, on the exercise of the right to vote by Spaniards residing abroad. This article was amended by Organic Law 2/2011, introducing what is known as a petitioned vote applied to the elections to the Chambers of these Courts, to the legislative assemblies of the Autonomous Communities and the cities of Ceuta and Melilla, and to the European Parliament. Since its introduction, it has resulted in a significant drop in the voter turnout, as well as in the ballots of those who decide to participate in the corresponding electoral process. The Central Electoral Board, in November 2016, in a report on the implementation of the 2011 reform, identified the causes that could explain this decrease in participation, as it said, as well as in the vote that was finally scrutinized, namely: the burden of requesting the vote; the delay in the receipt by voters of electoral documentation, transmitted from the census offices; the delay with which consular offices receive envelopes sent to them by the voters; the limitations of consular offices; the referral from the office of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the electoral boards of envelopes received from the voters; the short time in which all operations are to be carried out and the dependence on foreign mail services, of varying operation and efficiency. All this cluster of associated complications, derived from article 75 of the Loreg, has led to the articulated system for the voting of absent residents being inoperative as a means of exercising the fundamental right to elect their representatives, which is further aggravated by the remarkable increase of those in recent times. To this end, and in order to resolve this situation, the Central Electoral Board proposed to study a voting procedure based on telematics which, however, and subsequently, was unrelentingly discouraged from the subcommission for the study of Loreg's reform by the National Cryptological Centre, since its security in the face of cyber attacks, as has been observed in other countries, is leading to a reflux of this form of voting in which they had begun to implement it. At this point, the subcommission instructed one of its members, with the support of ministerial technical services experts in voting for foreign residents, to propose a draft with the precise changes in article 75 so that the fundamental right of foreign residents was not materially inoperative. The text that we are discussing now largely responds to the one suggested by the technical working group, following meetings of the technical working group with the speakers in the subcommittee, in order to resolve the issues that they had put before them. However, within the subcommission and unanimously recognizing the timely and necessary reform of article 75, the content of the reform had not yet been fully and fully clarified by the fact that some of the members of the subcommission had been left with some fringes and questions pending consideration and, in particular, with regard to the accreditation of the identity of those who opt to exercise their right to vote by mail and the incorporation of interpretative criteria with regard to the validity of the vote issued, this question is entirely new and which is found in article 75, paragraph 11, of the proposed law. In short, a full consensus had been reached within the subcommittee to overcome the request for a vote, but there was still some loophole to close, without prejudice to sharing a structure already outlined for a new wording of the above-mentioned article. In this regard, we cannot applaud the fact that this initiative has been presented unilaterally by the PSOE and Confederal de Podemos parliamentary groups, although it was not finally endorsed by the PSOE and Confederal de Podemos parliamentary groups, especially when, by the end of the term of office immediately, it will not be possible to complete its parliamentary process and all that has been done in this term will fall into the next term of office. For the same reasons, we do not agree that it should be proposed for the session next Thursday of this plenary session that this proposal for an organic law should be dealt with through the urgent procedure and with a single reading, pointing out once again that Spanish policy does not negotiate but that it is forced on the contrary with a desire to portray it. For this reason, we are faced with a text that lacks more time for dialogue in order to achieve a full majority consensus, such as the one that presided over the adoption of the Loreg in 1985 and the twenty-three reforms that have so far taken place; perhaps on this occasion there has been some intransigence with quite impatience, certainly because we are at the end of the legislature and at the door of many electoral processes. I'm finishing up, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not forget the importance of the electoral system, which is a structural pillar of the democratic system. That is why dialogue is called for to reach the broadest possible consensus, very substantially because the democratic system is carried out through the electoral system and that is why it has a constitutional nature, it is a constitutional matter, it is the action that articulates political ideologies with the aim of ordering future governability, consolidates democracy, approaches politics to citizenship and guarantees the representation of the people, promotes political participation, visualizes the territory and its defence and also articulates and cohesives States with different national realities or of other kinds. That is why we believe that it is a bad precedent to have unilaterally tabled this bill, without hastening negotiations for an undisputed majority; nevertheless, in the interests of agreement, we will vote in favour. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u18	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the reality is that the scenario is somewhat surreal since all the good work that has been done - and I think the Socialist Party Member is the reflection of what I am saying - does not deserve this sad ending, since, perhaps also by calculating the election call, we would have succeeded in this initiative succeeding for a further 15 days and we could certainly make some progress. I recall that, following the irregularities that occurred in the call for the Catalan elections of 27 September 2015 and the elections of 21 December 2017, we were able to demonstrate how and how many Catalan citizens could not vote for the bureaucratic procedures that have been required since the modification of 2011 and the introduction of the requested vote - which, moreover, has been shown to have not helped to encourage participation but quite the contrary, the percentages of abstention were increased and much - and we also noted the administrative crossroads of citizens residing outside the borders of the Spanish State. And all this added to a very restrictive timetable, including understanding that citizens living abroad were considered second-class citizens, not to mention the multiple incidents, perhaps some not free. We even suspected that there was some political intentionality, as there were difficulties in registering and many complaints of automatic telephones, embassies and consulates that did not work beyond the documentation received out of time. The truth is that we were able to present here a list of situations that did not correspond to a functional, diligent, modern administration, as is the case with a European State. So we believe that the content of the bill, which represents an improvement, should have been adopted, and instead we will now experience the decline of this initiative. I must also tell you that in the debate on the latest amendment of the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime our parliamentary group has already flagged the need to introduce telematic voting. Moreover, we have already tabled a number of amendments which were not considered by the majority. In any case, we believe that it is an opportunity for this failure to give rise to this will to resume work as soon as the next parliamentary term is set up, and I believe that we will have to face not so much the misunderstanding that represents - even though it certainly improves - the content of this parliamentary initiative, but that you know perfectly well that the solution lies in the telematic vote. So, since I regret that this initiative cannot come to fruition, I believe that we should commit ourselves to correcting the miscarriage by amending the law so that, I repeat, the needs of the citizens who are residing outside the borders of the Spanish State, which is nothing other than the introduction of telematic voting. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u20	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Prendes Prendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must confess to you that what I am going to say now has nothing to do with the intervention I had planned. First of all, as Mr Bataller has done, I would like to begin by apologizing to almost two million Spaniards living abroad, to whom we have not been able to attend adequately throughout this parliamentary term... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u22	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u23	...to which we have received in this house and have listened very carefully but then, I repeat, we have not been able to attend. [[Applauds]] We are talking about something very important, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about guaranteeing these two million Spaniards, in full rights, just like those who reside within our country, a fundamental right, the fundamental right of exercise to vote. And it is not because this matter has not been sufficiently debated in this House, it is not because we have lacked information, and some - I can assure you, Mr. House - it is not because we have lacked will. No, that is not why, it was because of these games that the Spanish policy has been brought in lately where it seems that it is the exercise of the attribution of faults, yes, Mr Chamber, of the attribution of faults; it is the only thing that consists of the politics lately. Well, look, I have changed my speech because, as you know for more than three weeks now, Mr Chamber, we will support the consideration of this initiative. We were willing, if the effort had been made, to vote in favour of the initiative in this single-reading and urgent procedure, in fact we would have told the rest of the speakers, that it was possible for the Congress of Deputies to fulfil its role and give satisfaction to those Spaniards and we would have completed the task we had entrusted, we could have done it if you, the Socialist Party's gentlemen, and you, the People's Party's gentlemen, had wanted to. But they didn't want to; they didn't want to. [[Applauds]] In the end, as I was saying, this is a blame-attribution game. We are going to review this legislature alone, I am not going to go back to other legislatures, I am not going back to other areas where I believe my party, Citizens, is not suspected of being a promoter of the Loreg reform in terms of the requested vote - in addition to other issues that must also be reformed of the Loreg - but in the debate that concerns us today about the requested vote of course that we are promoters of its reform. But I'm going to talk about this legislature and I'm going to do it with dates and data. On December 23, 2016, my parliamentary group presented a non-legislative proposal in the Committee on Foreign Affairs - December 23, 2016 - where we said in the first point: The Congress of Deputies urges the government to submit a draft amendment to article 75 of the Loreg by which the duty to... In short, replacing the voting mechanism requested by another more accessible to residents abroad; 23 December 2016. This was presented by my group, by our spokesman in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and do you know what the result was? It was rejected by 3 votes to 32. We were told to go to the subcommittee that was being processed in this House. We went to the subcommission, we were in that subcommission pushing it, working it, proposing appearances, and as it seemed to us that this subcommission was once again the usual camel of all legislatures when it came to reforming the Loreg, we called for a meeting with the People's Party and the Socialist Party. The meeting with the Socialist Party was held exactly on February 14, 2018 at about six o'clock in the afternoon, and I will read only the headlines who came from that meeting: 'The PSOE closes the door for now to the electoral reform that C's and Podemos are asking for.' [[Show a picture]] I don't have any packaging to recognize it. The PSOE closes the door to the reform of the Electoral Law; we are talking about February 14, 2018. That headline was dressed for another one that says: 'The PSOE opens up to discuss electoral reform but will not support it if the People's Party is not there'. [[shows another photograph]] This has been your usual argument. You two have been permanently supporting each other and each other, and when one was willing to reform the other one refused, and when the other wanted to reform it was the other side that refused as well. And with that trap that you know very well, Mr Chamber, the consensus trap - you know Darnstädt and Professor Sosa Wagner's prologue, you know very well, and that is why you do not, but I recommend others to read the consensus trap - you have played permanently to prevent this law from being reformed. [[Applauds]] I'm going to keep coming back to much closer dates. This subcommittee was languishing and we were invited to a meeting at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in September 2018, September 2018; see how the dates are progressing. In September 2018 we are told that there will be a working group and a proposal by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Well, we hope for that proposal, we have been dealt with, we have been sent, indeed the House has done a very worthy liaison work which I acknowledge. After the appearances that are held, after all the debates that we have, there is a proposal on the table and we are sent a final text to be signed and presented as a bill on 6 February. I'm talking about February 6, 2019, I'm not talking about 2018; I'm talking about February 6, 2019. We are called to a meeting on February 7, 2019 to study that text and I am going to that meeting and I am exposing my doubts in two respects: on the sending of the blank ballot and on the identification of the voter. Doubts that I say that under no circumstances will they make this reform go astray and cannot be dealt with for lack of citizens' vote. I assured you that, Mr. House, personally, as did the rest of the members of that subcommittee. Moreover, Podemos and the Socialist Party record this bill on the 8th and 15th of February this bill is seen in the Bureau and, thanks to the favorable vote of Citizens, it is agreed to deal with it by urgency and in one reading. [[Applauds]] Do you know what had changed from February 8 to February 15? That on February 13 someone had called an election press conference in Moncloa, said that they were going to dissolve the Chambers and that, therefore, they were interrupting the processing of the laws that were in the Chamber. Therefore, that this law does not complete its processing has a first responsible who is called Don Pedro Sánchez. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Don Pedro Sánchez, yes, because if he had been interested in the rights of the two million Spaniards living abroad and not to serve exclusively their electoral interests, perhaps with the delay of a week or two they could be guaranteed the vote. And then you have two other responsible ones, which are you and the People's Party, because you have been blocking each other and supporting each other to prevent Loreg's reforms all this time and because, besides, even after February 15 this week this law could have been processed and, finished its process in Congress, next week - because one day remains - you could have passed in the Senate, but you didn't want to. [[Mr. Villar Chamber delivers words that are not perceived]] Yes, come back to October 2016 and see how we approve Loreg's latest reform in this House: dealing with it in the same week, taking it into consideration, the process of amendments, the single reading and the final approval. This week he did not want to do so, and those who did not want to do so will be the ones who will have to explain. Therefore, in this game of attribution of faults, forgive me for saying so, regarding being suspected of torpedoing, interrupting or obstructing this necessary reform, of course, we will not admit any guilt, Mr Chamber. And it pains me that it comes from you, - a person to whom I respect personally, intellectually and politically - that phrase that has slipped in your speech saying that at the last moment Citizens disconnect by putting obstacles and problems to the processing, because you know that it is not true, that it has been quite the opposite, that we have been the facilitators of this reform and that we were the ones who were willing to be processed to give satisfaction to those who are our bosses, to those who vote and to whom we owe, that are those two million Spaniards whose legitimate right we are not going to attend to for our desidiy. [[Applauds]] That's why we were willing to do that processing in this way; even, look, having attended the president of the electoral board to whom I told him that it was no procedure that would hinder the processing, as it has been.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u24	Mr. Prendes, you've exceeded your time by a long time.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u25	All right. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u26	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Guijarro García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u27	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. I'd like to start by highlighting the obvious. In five minutes I can hardly summarise the chronicle of this long rosary for the repeal of the request for a vote in three wills: firstly, a thank you; secondly, the will of a reproach and, finally, the will of an apology, as has already been said here. First of all, a thank you to Carolina Bescansa, Pablo Bustinduy, Esperanza Cubera, Aniza García, the technical team of the Confederal Group and all the Members of this group. I also thank the Members of the PSOE Gregorio Camera and Rafael Simancas for the work they have done and for having been able to present this initiative together; Mr Prendes, Vice-President of the Chamber, and his colleague Miguel Ángel Gutiérrez because they have also done an important job; I do not want to forget Mr Posada, chairman of the subcommittee, or Mr Bermúdez, Secretary-General of the People's Group, as well as Mr Tardà and the other Members who have to some extent put forward a reform that is all about to be left at the door. Let me go on to my criticism, because we are indeed not going to achieve any reform, ladies and gentlemen, I blame the entire political class, the before and the now, that it has not been able to update the Spanish electoral system, a key element of any democratic system, in more than forty years and, when it has done so, it has been to restrict rights, not to expand them. Instead of having ended with an infamous majority system, caused by this perverse combination between the D'Hondt Act and the provincial constituency, rather than having adapted it to the autonomous and plurinational reality, to the municipal diversity, having not been able to have perfected it according to the old and simple democratic principle of a person a vote, in January 2011 they changed the Loreg to undermine, to torpedo the political right par excellence, the suffrage, to hundreds of thousands of Spaniards and Spaniards living abroad. Thus, we moved from levels of participation abroad that were above 30% to ridiculous figures of 4% to 6%, and they also did so at a time when the economic crisis drove hundreds of compatriots out of their homes every day. The so-called best-formed generation of our history suffered the additional punishment that our politicians applied against those who had already paid with economic exile the bad government in Spain. This legislature could have been the reform legislature. Two new political formations had entered, that of Citizens and ours, which otherwise differed in everything about the exits to the great challenges that the country is facing today, but which had identified the Loreg as one of the great laws in need of a democratic regeneration. The PSOE had also expressed on its agenda for the last elections its willingness to face reform. Only the PP resisted, keeping first a suspicious silence and then tangled in a subcommission in Congress for how many months, almost two years, that has hardly done anything practical except to receive the president of the Central Electoral Board a few days ago to hear his opinion on the concrete proposal for reform, now agreed between the PSOE and our parliamentary group, to eliminate the requested vote. If you want something to be done - said an old course -, appoint a responsible person; if you want something to take time forever, appoint a commission; a subcommission, we would say today. Throughout this time the PSOE has shielded itself on the argument that it was not possible to undertake reform without a broad consensus - it was then said -, understand, without a pact with the People's Party. It has taken more than two years to realize that any democratic reform of the Loreg, no matter how much it may be, would always be in spite of the People's Party. When they finally understood it, it was too late; now it no longer gives time. It seems that the PP is now aiming for the race, but without calling the Senate for approval - as has already been said here - an enabling requirement and exclusive power of this group and thus giving us the perfect alibi. Finally, it seems that there is only one vote in favour on the condition that it has no practical effects, that everything remains in a photo. I want to end with some sincere apologies, as Congressman Bataller claimed before me. I would like to express here a sincere apology to the companions of the Granate Sea, to our bases abroad, to the hundreds of thousands of Spaniards who participate and worry about what is happening in Spain, because they dream of one day returning to a better country, to their country. We have been very close, comrades and companions, but we have not arrived; rather, they have not left us. Again we will soon face fundamental elections for our future and again it will be almost impossible to participate in Spanish politics from the outside. All I have to do is tell them to hold on, not to loosen up, that we're coming. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u28	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Bermúdez de Castro Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u29	Thank you, President. I expected a little more rigour in some interventions, because we are not debating any law. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the Electoral Law, which is one of the laws that contain and define the rules of the game of our democratic system, so its reform should count - it has always been - with a high degree of consensus, although it seems that some have been forgotten. Sanchism is not even able to respect this parliamentary tradition. In addition, this afternoon some have wanted to use this debate from opportunism to try to blame others - especially the People's Parliamentary Group - for not having been able to bring this reform forward in time, which is an argument as absurd as it is false. That's his new condition, like the fable of the scorpion. For starters, this proposal is only signed by you and raises doubts in other groups, as you have seen. It is also ridiculous and mendacious to accuse our group of blocking or slowing down this reform, when we have always attended all the meetings to which we have been convened - even some with leaders of your parliamentary group in which you have not even participated, Mr Chamber - and, moreover, when we have been proactive with concrete proposals, some of them are contained in the text itself of the proposal we are debating today. [[applause]] I hope that some do not have the defachability to pretend to use others' proposals as their own. But above all, ladies and gentlemen, let's be serious. If this reform cannot enter into force for the next elections, it is not because of the People's Party, but because Mr Sánchez has decided to dissolve the House and no longer gives time, say what they say, to complete its proceedings. So, if you're looking for a culprit, you know who you have to account for, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] They seem to forget that the reform of 2011, of which they today refuse, was driven by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, voted favorably by the majority of the House, including the then only MEP Pedro Sánchez, and aimed to eliminate the suspicions that arose over the foreign vote. From this rostrum the Socialist rapporteur said in that debate that there was greater transparency and the possibility of fraud was avoided. We can all remember that then from leftist groups there were very harsh accusations of fraud and manipulation and more guarantees were demanded for the CERA vote. For this reason, the so-called petitioned vote was introduced as a guarantee of personality, a measure that added to the requirement established by the electoral board years before incorporating in the vote by mail a photocopy of an identification document of the elector. However, this measure has resulted in an unintended effect by the legislator, which has been the unacceptable decline in participation, which also makes its reform indispensable. That has been the position of the People's Party in recent months: to replace the requested vote with another procedure that would facilitate participation as much as possible, but - that is - without any guarantees, and also - that has not been said here - to improve the effectiveness to ensure not only that the documentation reaches the electorate in time, but then that their vote is counted effectively in the polls. So don't make it easy. All of us, also the People's Party, have defended the suppression of the requested vote; do not falter. Nor can we accept that we should be accused of trying to hinder the external vote, when we were the ones who asked just a few days ago for the electoral board to approve that the request for a vote for the general elections also applies to the autonomous and European elections or those who have also asked that in countries where there are difficulties or where there is no democracy, as in Venezuela, our compatriots be allowed to apply for the vote not only by postal mail, but also by e-mail. In that some groups always look elsewhere. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, our position in the subcommittee has been clear. We have been willing to extend and favour voting in the ballot box, because we think it is the most transparent. The measure of increasing the period for voting in the ballot box from three to seven days is ours; we have been asking for it for many years. [[Applauds]] But we also want, Mr Chamber, to have many more centres to vote on. We want the honorary consulates, as well as the regional houses and the headquarters of the Cervantes Institute in countries where there is a significant census. We're not just worth a generic reference in the law. We also agree to advance the sending of electoral documentation, but we think that there are alternatives to blank ballots, which you propose and which can generate confusion, such as the advance of the deadline for the production of official ballots or the sending of electoral documentation by diplomatic pouch, proposals that have been discarded without just debate or argument - the logistical issue is not worth us -. With regard to voting by mail, above all, we think that we cannot simply go back to the previous regulation and allow there to be suspicions of buying, delegating or mass voting. That is not worthy of our compatriots abroad. We believe there must be an identification procedure for the voter. If you do not like the certification we propose, let's look for another different formula, but some formula must be, ladies and gentlemen, and I will explain it. In Spain the vote by mail is always requested and identified; moreover, there is a double procedure of identification of the voter, here, in Spain. Well, in order to facilitate voting abroad, we have agreed to eliminate the requested vote, but there must be at least one procedure, not two, for identifying the voter. That is common sense because, as the Central Electoral Board itself recalls, the identification of the voter is the substantive requirement prior to the exercise of the right to vote, here in Spain and in every democracy. This is also suggested, by the way, by the General Council of Spanish Citizens in the Exterior when it asks for a guarantee of the process to ensure the full and unequivocal identification of the voter, that is, other than the requested vote, which is what we were looking for. That is why, Mr Chamber, do not exaggerate, because here we are not talking about obstacles, we are talking only about guarantees. Let us not forget that there are more than 2 million compatriots abroad and that the CERA vote can affect electoral censuses and change seats, so it must be exercised with full guarantees. There are many outstanding fringes and operational doubts, as evidenced by last week's appearance of the President of the Central Electoral Board, who offered us something indispensable: a comprehensive and comprehensive report from the board itself, which can help us a great deal on this issue in the future. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Our group wants to be positive. I believe that the initiative we are debating today is not the right one, but it can at least serve as a starting point for reaching consensus in the next parliamentary term, if we all act responsibly and also generously. I take your last words, Mr Chamber, and we are committed to that. That is the firm commitment that the People's Group acquires today with our compatriots, who live far away but who feel their homeland very close because they carry it in their hearts. We owe them. We have an obligation to have them very present to remove any obstacles that hinder that link with their land. We will do so from the conviction that distance can never be a barrier to continuing to participate in the destiny of this great nation, which is yours, which is ours, of this great nation called Spain. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u30	Thank you very much. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations (CGE) can, in common, protect the full range of sexual freedom and the eradication of sexual violence. [[File number 122/00279]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u31	We continue, ladies and gentlemen, with the item on the agenda concerning the consideration of the proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, for the integral protection of sexual freedom and for the eradication of sexual violence. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Montero Gil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Thank you, President. This is the last plenary session of the legislature and this law to guarantee sexual freedoms and combat sexual violence against women is the last bill that my parliamentary group is going to table. So it's a little frustrating to know that, even if it passes the parliamentary procedure, we're not going to see it turned into a law, but we're going to have to wait for the next legislature. But we are satisfied, at least I am, with the work that my Confederal Parliamentary Group of 'United' We can-In Comú Ponde-In Marea, and it is the last time in the legislature that we will appoint it from this rostrum. There is no better way for us to finish this legislature than by presenting this PL to guarantee the sexual freedoms of all women and to make the cry of 'only is yes' become a law, even if we have to wait for the next legislature. I want to thank the work of the comrades who have made this law possible - there are even some here in the Chamber who have come sick to do their work -; also the feminist groups who have contributed to making it possible; in particular, the teachers Maria Acale and Patricia Faraldo, who will be listening to us, as well as all the feminist women who have contributed to making this law possible, and without whom - compañeras, Sofia and Angela - it would not have been possible to carry out this work; - I also see there Lucia, Alicia - indeed, thanks for the work you have done to put feminism in the first line of work of this Confederal Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]] I wanted to take up my speech by pointing out the fundamental proposals of this law on sexual freedoms. But, of course, as I began to list the arguments I was wondering if I could start talking about sexual freedoms or if I had to start by explaining to Mr. Married that abortion is a right. It is not here, but I say to you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that abortion is a right, that it is not negotiated, that it is a right; that it is a right. [[Noting the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.-Applause]] I was wondering whether this House can have a clean, serious, feminist debate about sexual violence, or whether we have to start by reminding Mr. Married that we women do not decide to abort because we do not know what we are carrying inside, because we are naive, because we are innocent; that we women do not get up in the morning saying, "Wow, I'm going to get pregnant and then abort!" Like this is a whim. [[Applauds]] That abortion is a process we suffer in our own bodies, ladies and gentlemen!; in our own bodies. And no one has the right to blame us or criminalize us for exercising that right that our mothers, our grandmothers, sometimes putting their own lives at risk, and many more their own bodies, have fought so that today abortion can be that, a right. So don't you dare question it. Make an election campaign, but not with our bodies and not with our rights, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Look, that's what the bill we're bringing with us today is about: guaranteeing a life free from sexual violence for women in our country, for all women. By the way, a law mandated by the State Pact. We have never allowed that pact to be an empty photo, and I would like to thank again for the work of Sofia Castañón and Angela Rodríguez in that pact, because, in fact, we are the only political formation that has been concerned with enforcing that pact and bringing in this law that the pact itself mandated. It is no good for you to vote in favour or for you, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, if later, when you bring general budgets to this House, you do not comply with your budgetary arrangements to provide the pact with budgetary resources, and if later you do not develop it with concrete laws to improve people's lives. And, above all, if you take pictures in Columbus with those who are attacking women's rights and who want to repeal this pact, which has cost so much, for women in our country. [[Applauds]] Look, women know that sexual violence is a kind of macho violence that we can live any one of us and that we can live on a daily basis, and we don't want it to be so; we want to enjoy our sexuality with complete freedom, we want to live without fear of feeling insecure when we come home, when we walk down a little road, and we want to live sex-affective relationships without discrimination, coercion and violence. I am sure that at this point there is someone in the room, especially some man, who is thinking: not general, not all men are like this; I already respected women before the first feminists invented feminism; before that there were already men who respected feminists. Ladies and gentlemen, this is called NotAllMen; it is called: not all men are like this, and it is a typical reaction of some men to the push of the feminist movement. We already know women that all men do not attack, do not rape, that not all men are sexual aggressors or that not all men disrespect us; but it does happen that all women who have been assaulted or raped at some point in their lives - are many more than you believe - have done so not because of something that happens to them, but because of the fact that they are women; or that they have felt fear that something will happen to them because they are women. Their aggressors, ladies and gentlemen, are always men; not all men, but they are always men. [[Applauds]] That is why we have a problem as a society, which is called machismo, which is structural, which is collective and we must tackle it with public policies from this House, which is the one that legislates and makes possible laws that can improve people's lives. Machismo - today I was referred to some statements made by Mr Casado, also in this regard - has nothing to do with bad men; it is a structural problem in our country, deeply political and requires political solutions. To talk collectively is not to point out to all men, it is simply to recognize that it is a problem that requires collective and political responses from this House and that it is not a matter of thinking that there are some bad men and exceptions for which we have to regulate, but of dealing with it and putting life at the centre of all efforts, which is what this House has to do. We want to protect sexual freedoms in an integral way, we want to put our country at the head of feminist legislation, and this law is also important because so far all laws that have been made against sexist violence have always been made for women whose aggressor was their partner or ex-partner. We want to eradicate sexual violence, we want to eradicate sexist violence in all areas of life and regardless of the victim's relationship with the aggressor. There are many sexual violences that occur in areas that are not the partner's or the ex-partner's and that must also be addressed. There can be no more victims of first and second. The main measures included in this proposal are: the first, that the accreditation of a situation of sexual violence does not depend on the complaint made by the victim or that he should testify against the perpetrator of the aggression. In order to have access to the rights and services included in this law, it is sufficient for the public authorities to prove the existence of a situation of violence even if women do not denounce it. In addition, women victims of sexual violence have the right to comprehensive reparation, including everything necessary to achieve complete physical, psychological and social recovery. Thirdly, the Criminal Code must be amended to make it only possible to do so. We want to unify the crimes of assault and sexual abuse under the unique name of sexual assault, and that the key to classifying conduct as sexual assault is not the type of conduct performed, that we do not have to face a judge who asks us whether there was penetration or not, but that such conduct is explicitly consented to by the woman. I mean, if there's a deal, it's a sex deal; if there's no deal, then it's rape. Only it is, and if not, we are talking about sexual assault. [[Applauds]] We include many prevention and awareness-raising measures and, of course, specific training in sexual freedoms in all areas - in health care, in the judiciary, in that of the State Security Forces and Bodies - so that all women in this country feel protected, so that they do not feel that if they are going to report it is possible to be told that they are crazy, or that this has not happened, or that it is not so serious, or that she is a girl, go home and you will have done something to make it happen to you, which is what many women in our country continue to find today. I want to make it clear that the spirit of this law is to guarantee free and equal sexuality for all people. I'll finish with a thought. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that today the feminist movement is the greatest democratic example that exists in the whole world; the only one capable of stopping the feet of those who want to return to the past; the reactionaries who in this country have taken the picture in Columbus; those who are questioning women's rights; those who - I insist - want to make us return to a too remote past. The feminist movement is not done alone, as it feeds on the efforts of thousands of women who are doing each assembly, hitting posters, organizing activities; women who prepare mobilizations and seek consensus among women who think differently, which also happens in my group. This March 8th, we must make our best efforts to make the strike a democratic example throughout the world, an example of democracy and feminism; and the strike is not going to be done alone, we are going to do it among all of us, and we can be counted on to do so. We're clear about that. [[Applauds]] The most important thing that feminism tells us is that rights and democracy are conquered not with fear, but with hope. These months we are going to see a lot of scary speeches: fear that the reactionaries will arrive, that we will return to the past, that abortion will again be a question in dispute, that abortion will again be illegal, but with fear things will not change; with fear, at best, things will stay the way they are, and in Spain things are not right. We believe that we must face these months with hope, not with fear; the hope of knowing that always, always, always, as long as we have not surrendered we have achieved even what seemed impossible. Spain does not have to go back to the past nor does it have to stay the way it is; Spain can be a democratic, feminist example, be at the head of Europe in feminist policies and make life at the centre of all our efforts. Women aren't giving up. We want to live in equality, we just want to live, with all the letters, without fear, with hope. I am sure that this law, although it takes a little longer than we would like to achieve, will allow our institutions to be a little more feminist, it will allow many women to see their rights guaranteed, in this case, to a completely free sexuality, and above all it will make us show again - as the pensioners in our country have already shown, as the women have already shown on 8 March, as we are going to do again this 8 March - that with fear, at best, things remain as they are and that in this country there is much more hope than fear. We want Spain to be a democratic and feminist country and that is reflected in this Parliament. We are not going to allow us to go back to the past and make Spain lead the world in democratic and feminist policies. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u33	Mrs Beitialarrangoitia Lizarralde spoke in the first place in the position-setting session by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Swing it on again. We will support this initiative as it is generally a step forward. It is because it involves taking a step further in the visibility and proper treatment of sexual violence, mostly exercised on women because of the mere fact that they are women in a context of sexist violence. It must certainly be a priority for any Government. We also value as a step forward the elimination of the difference between aggression and sexual abuse, the expansion of the process of accreditation of victims, the increase in the competence of the courts dealing with this matter, as well as the incorporation of the digital sphere - very important - or the recognition of the right to reparation. That is why, as I say, we will vote in favour, even if I am not going to have a tour of this House for the time being. Taking advantage of the fact that we are talking about sexual freedom and the eradication of sexual violence, I want to bring you, in this House, a case, that of Izar. [[Shows a picture in which you see a woman and a girl smiling hugged]] Izar was born in prison; he lived with his mother, Sara, in prison when her father, on a way out, tried to kill her. Sara and Izar went through very hard times, not only because of the battle for the survival of a girl who was barely two years old, but also because of the insensitivity of the prison and judicial system that put obstacles to the much-needed coexistence of both to overcome such a dramatic fact. Sara and Izar returned home. They are remaking their lives with family and friends and have managed to show a wide smile, which we see in this photo, but recently the concern has returned, since Izar's father has been released due to the delay in the investigation of the case and to the fact that pretrial detention, they say, must be an exceptional measure in this case. It could always be that way, the truth. This is not the case with the young people of Altsasu, who are waiting in prison for the outcome of their appeal, or with the Catalan independence leaders, who are being tried in the Supreme. Machist aggressors, such as Izar's father or Iruña's rapists, are a danger to society, despite what they expect the judicial decisions to be released, while their victims fear again for their lives; they are revictimized and feel unprotected, although in the case of Izar and Sara it is they today who are subject to surveillance so that nothing happens to them instead of their father. We understand that we must put an end to these kinds of cases and situations, with patriarchal justice, and I therefore take the opportunity today to talk about this subject in order to bring this reality to an end. There are many cases like these, many realities to face. I hope that the laws will gradually help us to put an end to this reality and to this patriarchal and macho justice. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u35	Thank you very much. Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, comrades, I know you've cured it so much. When I was preparing this intervention, the truth is that I wondered how to explain why a law of sexual violence is needed in the 21st century and I could not help but analyse some of the situations to which women are still subjected, in the 21st century. I quote: Buf, how do those screams put me? It is the comment of a university professor to one of his students, who hooks his hair in a chair. Do you have a boyfriend? Do you make love to him many times? You look really good. It's a neurologist's comment to a patient of yours. We'd need a spa. I can give you a massage, but it has to be mutual. It's a boss's comment to one of his employees. In February 2018, the drunkenness of a victim was taken into account to acquit a criminal accused of sexual assault, and this was not the case with La Manada. A prison officer repeatedly harassed women prisoners in the shower and, in addition, touched them whenever he could. A subcomandante pulled his penis in front of a military officer. She asked him to make a blowjob and masturbated in front of her by locking her in her office. Is it good or are you good? It's the tweet of a Metro Valencia manager to a Member of Compromís. This one's gonna eat my turnip. It is the expression that uses a Civil Guard comment to refer to the mayor of her village, in Paporta. All these cases happen in Valencia, they pass in Murcia, they pass in Navarre, they pass in Seville, we see them on television, they happen in our hospitals, and they are not isolated cases, it is the patriarchy that constantly harasses women. And yes, we need a law on sexual violence; we need to move far beyond the Gender Violence Act. We need to be brave and legislate to eradicate all kinds of sexist violence, including sexual violence. And yes, in the 21st century feminism and equality are once again the battlefield of the right. This is because only by repressing women and keeping us in the background, only by discriminating against 50% of the population, can the right keep its power. So yes, yes to this law. It is a pity that this law remains in parliamentary procedure, but yes to this and all the laws that make a society much fairer and more egalitarian. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u37	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u38	Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin, I wanted to apologize to the spokespersons of the Equality Committee on behalf of Mr Agirretxea, who was unable to come here today because of an indisposition. However, I am going to transfer your opinion and that of my group on this legislative initiative, because it should be contextualised in part. Article 1.1 states that the comprehensive protection of the right to sexual freedom of all persons, as well as the eradication of all sexual violence, recognizing that it affects women disproportionately as a manifestation of multiple discrimination, is a manifestation of inequality in gender power relations. This is a battle in which we are all going to embark and it is clear that many of the measures proposed in this initiative are taken, or should be taken, by a large part of the House of Political Representation, now and in future representation. It has preventive, training, assistance and other questions of a performance nature; it has aspects related to actions of different public administrations, and it proposes actions that are cross-cutting or of horizontal influence in different material areas of public action. In other words, it has a plurality of actions that will affect a material aspect in a sense in which we will not disagree. However, and even if it seems inappropriate, it must be said that a legislative initiative such as this, which is not going to have continuity as it is, in the case of the dissolution of the House must also be the subject of some sort of criticism. We say this to the future, although it does not make much sense today either, because this cross-cutting action proposed in this initiative affects in a centralizing way aspects such as education, social services, health, labour relations, advertising, the media, the police field, etc., i.e. areas of public action in which the autonomous communities have extensive competences and, consequently, powers of action whose visualization is not seen anywhere, except for some exception, throughout the text. Thus, for example, Article 1.4 lists a number of comprehensive protection measures or initiatives in this area and only one of the planned points, point (m), refers expressly to the competences of the Autonomous Communities. The same applies to article 61, all of which relate to the areas of competence of articles 10 and 12 of the Statute of Guernica and others. However, apart from these dysfunctions, there are others such as those relating to the integration into this text of the necessary identification with the contents of the proposal on an organic basis, which is made with an all-inclusive figure in an additional provision - if I am not mistaken - in some way violating the constitutional provision in this area in article 81.1 of the Constitution. Thus, the second final provision of this proposed law states that the present law is organic and, however, this statement does not respond to reality. While there are issues that are reserved for organic matters, such as procedural matters or amendments to the Criminal Code or amendments to the right to education, their content by a vast majority is not organic in nature and affects matters that can be developed on the basis of their competence by the Autonomous Communities and, in particular, by the Basque Autonomous Community in a more intense manner. Let us say, therefore, that our vision is favourable to the content, but critical of many of its forms and, of course, we understand that a rethinking of the issue must be made in relation to a central element, and it is the absolutely re-centralizing vision of all the actions and of all the public authorities that contemplates any initiative that comes from the hand of Podemos. We are sorry, but this is a repetition that we already know and, indeed, we ask you, sincerely, to correct it in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u39	Thank you very much. Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u40	Good afternoon, congressmen and congressmen. The Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea brings an innovative and, indeed, ambitious initiative, which aims to end the scourge of sexual violence and violence against women and, therefore, we will support it. It is a real pity that this initiative falls into this legislature without time to discuss it and work together to adopt a text that will make us better as a society and help us to put an end to the heteropatriarchal system. It is clear that the current system does not protect the rights of all citizens and has exposed the heteropatriarchal bias that perverts it and perpetuates injustice on the grounds of gender, sex, sexual orientation, sexual or gender identity, social class, ethnic or racial origin. Women's rights are human rights, although this bothers some extreme right-wing parties. Gender-based violence is a flagrant violation of these rights and violates women's full autonomy, freedom and citizenship. Esquerra Republicana has repeatedly claimed the need to legislate and implement policies that have a real impact on society, aimed at educating and raising awareness throughout society about human rights and republican values, equality and equity, as well as providing resources to public administrations that work side by side with victims of male and sexual violence. Because institutional violence is also sexual and gender-based violence. In this regard, in Catalonia we already have Law 5/2008 of 24 April on the right of women to eradicate macho violence, a pioneering law throughout the Spanish State. During these ten years of law enforcement, in Catalonia we have deployed different policies aimed at combating male-based violence and we can proudly say that the results are more than satisfactory. However, the lack of resources in the public administration is daunting and hinders the achievement of these objectives and ends up harming the group that most needs it: the victims and survivors who use these services. In conclusion, the Spanish State still has a long way to go until women are free, without stereotypes that blame us, without phalocentrism, without domination; in short, live in full freedom and autonomy. Whether or not you like right-wing parties, we will end sexual violence and machismo. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u41	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Reyes Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u42	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here before a proposal for a law considering your admission to procedure, the first step of the many that requires the full adoption of a law; note that some are more than two years in the Chambers until the final adoption takes place and you bring today, 25 February, one week after the dissolution of the Chambers, this proposal for a law. Politics fiction until the last moment, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos. Do you really consider this law important? If so, why didn't you bring her here earlier? Because their group had a parliamentary quota and in November this law was already ready to be debated. Look, I don't know what pacts you will have with the Socialist Party or with the independence groups because transparency has always shined out of your absence in these nearly nine months of Socialist Party government. Therefore, I do not know whether the fact that you presented some laws and others does not have to do with those covenants, but understand that what the course of events reveals is that what is at stake here is not a priority for you. Of course it is important to address sexual violence as the form of sexist violence it is!, we have said it a thousand times and so says the Istanbul Convention, which we signed in 2014. As you are well aware, my group's intention was to extend the Gender Violence Act 2004 to all forms of sex violence and to include in it, as far as sexual violence is concerned, the applicable measures. That law, we believe, is its place, and in the state covenant itself this should have been closed, but what do we find when considering it during the negotiation? All kinds of obstacles on the part of the Socialist Party, which, by the way, the People's Party also supported in this. It was always a point of discord for the Socialist Party - you know it well, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos - all that had to do with amending the 2004 Gender Violence Act. Why? Because they care more about propaganda than anything else. Whether the law is effective or not, whether the present society has been adapted, is secondary; the important thing for you is to continue to say that it is a socialist law, that is one of the main reasons why, despite having a state pact, nothing has progressed on this very important specific issue. You leave the government, socialist ladies and gentlemen, and women who suffer sexual assault outside the couple are still unattended by a court specializing in violence against women. [[Applauds]] In addition, we had another opportunity after the adoption of the State Pact to change this when we discussed the reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, but the Socialist Party again opposed the amendment that included this issue of judicial competence. Yes, we must delve into this problem, which is also taking place among very young people, both aggressors and victims, with very specific types that should be collected in the law, such as the use of drugs that nullify the will, but how we will do it if we do not have official data on how many attacks occur and their modus operandi. And we do not have that data because the Socialist Government has also not fulfilled the mandate of the State Pact on statistical treatment and reporting; we have already asked for it several times and we are still waiting, ladies and gentlemen. The victims deserve more than to be compared to the electoral campaign, by both sides; fewer banners, fewer slogans and more solutions. This is what they want. [[Applauds]] With these debates that never reach port we generate false expectations, and with that, ladies and gentlemen, you contribute to generating greater discredit for the political class. Focusing already on the proposal for a law, it must be said that almost 75% falls within the scope of criminal law, it is the substantial part of the proposal for a law. It should also be recalled that the Criminal Section of the General Codification Commission was commissioned almost a year ago to review sexual offences in the Criminal Code, a commission made up of criminal experts, some of them - in this case - a member of this House, a lawyer of the Courts, whose professionalism we all know perfectly well. Well, that work has already ended and it has been handed over to the Government - I have to go back to you - and it has been handed over to the Government in the form of a text articulated there in December. Question to the Socialist Party: What happened to that bill that should have been brought to this House after the work had been completed? The same is certainly true of the Anti-Trafficking Act, which is not a priority either. Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, does it make sense to propose the reform of the Penal Code in relation to sexual assault when those jobs are completed and we have not even seen them? In addition, work carried out by criminal experts. Of course, all this is really absurd, we are debating something that cannot be started because Parliament closes next week. And look, this issue is so serious that you don't deserve such treatment. [[Applauds]] I will tell you that if the legislature did not end next week, we would have tabled a full amendment to this bill. I do not have time to explain it in too much detail, but I will focus only on two essential points. The first is that this initiative, which seeks to be law, is laden with indeterminate legal concepts. I'll give you an example. You expand to infinity the concept of sexual violence, which becomes sexual violence, in plural, a seal of the house of Podemos. And I stop to read a paragraph as an example: The sexual violence to which this law refers covers conduct involving violation in any form of the right to decide about sexual life, including conduct carried out in all areas, including the symbolic sphere. What is the symbolic sphere? What are the symbolic violences that are continually cited in the bill? And what is the right to decide about sexual life? If we are talking about a violation of a right, we will have to clearly define its content. That's how laws are made, ladies and gentlemen. Curiously, you do not define what has legal relevance, the basis for the judge to fail in one sense or another, but you do define issues that are not essential in judging, basically obeying an academic, ideological or political prejudice. They also make a huge list of definitions of this type; see, for example, gender power relationships as a social construct. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a manual of initiation, of beginners of Podemos, this is a law, take it seriously. [[Applauds]] Secondly, throughout the text there is a constant lack of concern for legal certainty, particularly when it comes to establishing infringements. Article 25 of the Spanish Constitution - read it - suffers. A clear example is what they call protection against harassment on the public street: anyone who addresses a person on the public street will be punished with propositions, behaviours or pressures of a sexual or sexist nature that, without leading to degrading treatment or an attack on sexual freedom, create an intimidating situation for the victim. Is it possible, then, that a firecracker might be intimidating? Because according to this wording, it is not clear at all, it is left to the judge's arbitrariness. Finally, I am sorry to say that this is the trivialization of penalties, the trivialization of the Criminal Code and the trivialization of justice. We have said it many times, they are taking everything to such an extreme that in the end nothing will have value, that in the end the injured will be us, the women. [[Applauds]] And I'm done, Madam President. Madam, Montero, you were not in the negotiation of the state pact, so you do not know that the first party that demanded an economic commitment was Citizens. [[Rumors]] That money was in the 2018 general budgets...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u43	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u44	...,budgets we managed to get through. Instead you have not been able; a lot of slogan, a lot of banner, but of effective politics nothing. I also tell you that fortunately for the Spaniards it has not been so, because we have rid ourselves of some budgets that Pablo Iglesias has made negotiating, with visit to the prison included. Therefore, you will understand that the last thing we want is for Mr. Churches to remake us all the Criminal Code. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u45	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Álvarez Álvarez. Mrs ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ: Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the macro-survey on violence indicates that more than 600 000 Spaniards would have suffered some form of sexual assault before they had reached the age of fifteen and almost 1.5 million adults some sexual assault outside the scope of the couple; however, the number of complaints coming to the police stations and courts is small, since most of the attacks, when perpetrated by acquaintances of the victim, are not reported and are unpunished. The fight against sexual violence calls for a change of perspective because it perpetuates an archaic and macho concept of consent that establishes legal parameters that, as Professor Catharine Mackinnon points out, are so perverse that women may be dead and have consented; a change of parameter because it is intolerable that not a few judges continue to consider, for example, involuntary paralysis during aggression as an implicit assent, and a change of parameter because complaints cannot be encouraged while the victims find in some courts trivialization or remedial responses to the use of public space by women. The Socialists are going to vote affirmatively for this because we are aware that a rule of comprehensive protection of the right to sexual freedom is necessary, a matter which completely disproportionately affects women. The structure of this proposal presented by Mrs Montero follows the comprehensiveness model and structure set out in the Organic Law 1/2004 against Gender Violence, but technically it can be noted that some definitions of the proposal do not fully correspond to any concept legally used in the Spanish legal system or in the international conventions ratified by Spain. Nor is it clear what the scope of this rule is, as is apparent from article 27 regulating the guarantee of rights, and we would like to draw attention to the fact that article 28 exceeds the terms set out in the compact for the new accreditation system, when work is also being done since the Sectoral Conference on Equality in the basic accreditation procedures to which we must refer for such accreditations. We see no problem in expanding the labour rights already contained in Law 1/2004 to victims of this type of violence, provided that they are forced to leave their jobs as a result of their status as victims. That's right, picking up the directions and giving it consistency, as I've stated before. Certain issues relating to the crime of trafficking in human beings should be excluded from this rule, which should be governed by another special law as already agreed in the Covenant, and it does not seem appropriate to include in a rule on sexual assault the necessary ratification of ILO Convention 189, on decent work, or the civil aspects of forced marriage. A general review will be necessary because, for example, with regard to the right to free legal aid, its eleventh additional provision is more harmful than the current regulation. We therefore advocate in general terms that we respect the assumptions that already have a specific regulatory framework and that we also respect the agreements reached in the pact. Chapter 2 provides for judicial measures of enhanced protection and security that do not exclusively concern these victims. Measures to be taken, for example, to avoid visual contact with the offender or to declare in special rooms should be linked to the provisions already made in the Codification Commission and the pact itself regarding the reforms provided for in the Victims of Crime Status Act or the Criminal Prosecution Act. Mrs Montero, amending the Organic Law on Judicial Power and the Law on Plant and Demarcation calls for a prior study of statistical data on the number of annual cases that enter the courts for this kind of crime and you have not provided, for example, for the vacatio legis that allows the Administration of Justice to value and plan an aspect as substantial as this. It is also important to reflect on article 50 of its proposal, which refers to the pharmacological treatment in the therapeutic intervention of sexual assaults. You amend articles 66 and 74 of the General Prison Law and I must sincerely say that it is very difficult for us to understand the intent and philosophy of your proposal. First, because the treatments referred to in article 66 are limited to the conduct of behavioral therapy and to the modification of the attitude system and no kind of inhibitory pharmacology is used as a supporter of these programs at present in Spanish prisons. Secondly, as a reminder, because there is already Law 3/2001, which regulates informed consent, which already guarantees what you intend with the reform of that article. And, thirdly, because it does not seem very reasonable that the Social Welfare Commission should follow up on pharmacological treatments, a matter which is undoubtedly the responsibility of the prison supervisory judge. With regard to the fourth additional provision, I am going to ask for consistency from Mrs Montero and her whole group, because the body of women can certainly not be used as mere object and merchandise, but neither in advertising nor anywhere else. We are going to support this proposal, but I believe that what you have to do is to seek among yourselves the support of some of those on your own bench who believe that the use as a mere object of women, if paid, is legitimate. [[Applauds]] Tell, for example, your partners, Mrs Colau and Mrs Carmena, to stop encouraging the idea that accessing women's bodies by price is a socially desirable practice because it is not. Really, I tell you from the heart and from the deepest feminism, seeing you at the hand of the neoliberal discourse of Citizens in this matter is desolating; I repeat, desolating. [[Applauds]] We are going to work to bring forward a law against sexual assault and we hope to do so at the hands of all the progressives in this House, in line with other rules, in line with ratified international treaties and, above all, on a good foundation, which leaves us the work of hundreds of professionals who are already paying attention to the victims of sexual assault every day. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we do not associate ourselves with the devil of machismo like you in Andalusia. We rely on public services and also on NGOs that provide support even when administrations do not do so. Ladies and gentlemen, what some are pursuing with this harassment that has begun below, this harassment of reconquering, is breaking the support network, but the state pact is asking us to do just the opposite, strengthening the safety of the victims with a tumultuous institutional and social network. To associate with the banners of sexism is not a good thing, it is not a good thing. I'm done. The Socialist Group has undertaken to legislate against the culture of rape and against the culture of impunity, which always ends up reinforcing the violent and normalizing the anti-social behaviour of sexism, but we will do so from the point of view of respect for the covenant agreements, in line with other national and international legal norms and with the solvency, responsibility and seriousness that we have always imprinted on our laws. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u46	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs. Dueñas Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u47	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. As the World Health Organization points out, sexual violence is one of the most serious public health and human rights problems worldwide. Let me begin my intervention with data from the report of the Ministry of the Interior on crimes against freedom and sexual compensation of 2017, referring to the victim's profile by age group: from eighteen to thirty years, the percentage distribution of victims is 92% of women versus 8% of men: from thirty-one to forty years, the percentage of victims is 90% versus 10% of men; and if we continue, it is clear that the percentage follows the same line as in previous groups: greater victims of the female sex. If we go to another of the indicators, the profile of the person responsible, we see that the percentage distribution of arrests and investigations, unlike what happened with the victimizations, shows an extremely high proportion of men compared to women. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with one of the manifestations of violence against women that is most widespread and invisible and that is a direct attack on the dignity and moral and physical integrity of women who suffer it, becoming a serious and intolerable violation of human rights and a social problem of the highest order, which requires the involvement of the whole of society and, in particular, the public authorities in order to eradicate it. The 2015 macro-survey on gender-based violence, together with the National Strategy for the Eradication of Violence against Women, collected for the first time in Spain information about sexual violence outside the partner and allowed us to know the real extent of sexual violence in our country. But our work wasn't there. We were aware of this heartbreaking reality and we developed and published from the Delegation of the Government for Gender Violence the study Social perception of sexual violence, a pioneering study in Spain and Europe, a serious, rigorous and transcendental work that brought very important data to bear in mind in what we are considering today and which also responded to what was mandated by the pact of state that we signed in this House. And yes, we are convinced that this issue must be taken up with courage, but also with rigour, responsibility, legal certainty and respect for fundamental rights. It is essential to undertake the prevention of sexual violence, yes, with reforms, with awareness-raising and information campaigns, yes, from education, forcefully yes, but together with the parents, we are the main ones responsible for the education of our children. Information, prevention and education in values, yes; indoctrination against one another, no. Ladies and gentlemen, in this motion for a law some speakers who have spoken before me have already outlined some of the details which my group would also like to hear from you and which, in our view, indicate in some parts of you a marked absence of legal certainty, and this is not acceptable in a rule of law. However, out of consistency with what we voted for and approved in the state pact, which we promoted and led from the People's Party government together with the rest of the political formations, I have to tell you that we will vote today in favour of taking into consideration a text that is born to die. I also say to you that, if the procedure had continued, we would have tabled an amendment in its entirety with an alternative text that would protect victims of sexual violence, prevent it, raise awareness, raise awareness, assist it, train it, protect it, help it and carry out the necessary reforms, but always without undermining any fundamental right. In fact, this led my parliamentary group to register in this House, at the beginning of December, a reform of Article 178 of the Criminal Code. I am not going to dwell on some of those points which, as I say, would, in our view, squander and reduce legal certainty on the text that you have presented, but I find myself under the obligation to respond to that mania or custom that you have to use the concept of feminism. You still do not know, Mrs Montero, that feminism is not your heritage. Abandon once and for all the claimed moral superiority they use in these matters. They overcome at once the rejection of the reality of responsible feminism, coherent and open to all ideologies without any exclusion with which I feel identified and, like myself, many women and men. Know that this is about men and women working together and fighting for equality. Ladies and gentlemen, in my last speech at this last plenary session of this brief parliamentary term, I would like to highlight once again the success of the State Pact against Gender Violence, which was born out of the firm commitment not only of the previous Government of the People's Party, but of all the political groups, entities and organizations that made it possible. It is a pact of all and we have shown that it was possible to do so with respect, dialogue and teamwork - which is, in short, what all the citizens are asking of us - with the aim of making firm progress towards the eradication of any form of violence against women, a pact that I trust will be the road map for the coming years. Ladies and gentlemen, in this fight against any form of violence against women today we also measure ourselves as people regardless of our gender, ideology or age; all united to defend more than 50% of the population who are women and who are or can become victims of violence simply because they are. Ladies and gentlemen, I trust that at the next stage this state pact, which we have achieved - as I say - with respect, generosity and dialogue, will be an example of other necessary ones. Let us continue to work - this is the absolute commitment of my group - in the same spirit of progress, progress, social justice, rights and freedoms, but above all, ladies and gentlemen, of equality between women and men. This is, in our view, the best way to end all forms of violence that unfortunately still persist in our society. I repeat, this is the commitment of my parliamentary group, and do not be disturbed by certain information which is unfounded. This is the firm commitment of my party, of the People's Parliamentary Group, and I am convinced that it will be that of the whole House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u48	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u49	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. First, we begin with the non-legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos In Comú Podemos In Marea concerning the adoption of measures to reduce the price of electricity. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Vendrell Gardeñes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u50	Thank you, President. We finish the legislature as we begin, without structural changes in the energy system, a socially unjust, economically inefficient and ecologically harmful energy system. Millions of people live trapped between high energy prices, precariousness and low wages and the high prices of homes that are also energy inefficient. Today in Spain, the energy model designed by both PSOE and PP governments is a factor of impoverishment and inequality. It is a situation that we cannot normalize and to which we cannot resign. In January this year there was a 6% increase in the price of electricity compared to the same month last year. It's a structural problem. According to Facua, in 15 years the price of electricity has increased by 78%. They are prices that do not correspond to the purchasing power that most people in Spain have and that create enormous difficulties for small businesses and self-employed workers. We cannot resign ourselves to an energy system that generates much of the greenhouse gas emissions. Between 2014 and 2017 we have had one of the largest increases in these gases. We are the sixth largest emission country in the European Union. We cannot resign ourselves to the fact that almost seven million people, 15% of the population living in Spain, suffer from inadequate temperatures in housing or delays in payment of receipts, as the Association of Environmental Sciences says. The Government has not fulfilled its commitment to promote a thorough reform of the social bonus to protect vulnerable persons, nor has it fulfilled its commitment to address the reform of the electricity market. Both commitments were signed in the budget agreement signed with our group. We are spending another winter with a social bonus that is basically the one agreed by the People's Party, the PSOE and Citizens, which has proved disastrous, ineffective to protect from cuts and energy poverty. We've gone from over two million protected people to just over a million. It is a shame that in a country called developed there are people who are cold, who cannot have their homes at a proper temperature because they cannot pay their bills. It's a real shame. While the social scourge of energy poverty does not stop, large companies keep increasing their profits: Iberdrola, in 2018, more than 3000 million net profits; Endesa, 1500 million net profits. Great benefits, on the one hand, cuts in electricity for vulnerable people, on the other, in a country where 20% of the population is at risk of poverty. In view of this, what has the Government done? It approved a temporary exemption from the value of energy production tax to lower prices, an exemption that ends in April; a measure that, at the time, we already said was a patch. In addition, we suspect that companies have already internalised that exemption to maintain their level of profit or even increase it. As Minister Ribera said, the price of the light receipt will be 12% cheaper by 2030, with decarbonisation and the entry of renewable energy. In 2030? Gentlemen of the Government, we are convinced - we have always defended it - that more renewable energy, cheaper electricity prices, but we cannot wait for 2030. We have accumulated the delay of two governments, the PP and the PSOE, which have not presented in time and form the law of climate change and energy transition and have lacked planning to improve and implement renewables. A just transition to a 100 per cent renewable model also requires urgent action to reduce energy prices and end energy poverty once and for all. [[The lady]] Why is this situation occurring? Because the liberalisation process started in 1997 has not worked: prices have not fallen or, substantially, there is more competition; there are more complaints and complaints than ever on the part of consumers; there is no protection against energy poverty, nor has it served to improve the competitiveness of the company; in fact, it has been a scam on the part of consumers. And what's the problem? The problem is the excessive market power of companies, which do what they want on the market and have determined, with just raising the phone and calling the various governments, energy regulation. This market power is also the consequence of political power, the ability to influence political decisions, the rotating doors over the years: Aznar, Salgado, Martín Villa or Solbes a Endesa; Felipe González, Garmendia or Narcís Serra a Gas Natural; Acebes a Iberdrola. The result is that there is no real competition, but an oligopoly, a process of concentration in a few large companies. Look at the picture that has remained after all this: one that was public, now it is public but Italian; the other is controlled by vulture funds, and the other has the wrong precedent in 2013 - it is in the courts - to manipulate the price of water to alter the prices of electricity. That is the picture that has left us with this policy that has favored oligopoly. Electrics receive great benefits not because they do so or because of the services they provide, but as a result of poor regulation; a bad regulation that causes activities that are overly amortized, in an earlier regulatory framework, such as hydroelectric nuclear power, to receive unjustified benefits and to be remunerated at the most expensive energy price, which is gas. These are the so-called fallen benefits of the sky; we buy water at the price of French champagne. This is a structural problem. What do we propose as a final message that the Congress of Deputies should give at this end of the legislature? We propose a series of measures that can be summarised in four major reforms. Reform of the electricity market by ending the benefits of the sky; reform of the electricity bill by reducing the fixed part, ending unjustified capacity payments; reform of the social bonus and consumer protection mechanisms; transition to a 100% renewable system; ensure transparency and once again end the revolving doors. These proposals can be summed up in one single idea: to recognize once and for all the human right to access to clean energy at a reasonable price as a condition also for guaranteeing a dignified life. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u51	Thank you very much. For the defence of the amendments tabled, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor for the Republican Left Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u52	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. You see, Mr Vendrell, the last canutations of the legislature and for our theme - yours, mine and that of some of you in this legislature -, with which you are falling here close to the Supreme, in the streets and with this magnificent Madrid time, surely with visions of little future. It is not a reproach that you have made a last-minute GNP, because I have to admit that if you had a quota, I would have made it too, perhaps not the same in substance and form, but I would have tried it too. To end the monopoly of electrics, to eradicate windfall profits, a bet decided by renewables... Look, I think, like you, we haven't done much, we could have done more. I must also say that in this short parliamentary term, although little has been done, if there is anything left, it will be on energy issues, by the beginnings of the road that there has been, shy, but there have been, and by magnificent declarations of intentions - like yours -. However, an endless amount of debate is mixed, if you will allow me, with no argumental thread in what you and I would call a tailor's calaix. In its GNP there is a lack of concreteness of the proposals, as well as more concreteness in the temporal horizon of achieving them. All of this shouldn't be left alone in bailouts. I blame you and I blame myself aloud. You have worked up to the last moment and a server, modestly, has amended up to the last moment. We share that high electricity prices pose a problem, that in the Spanish state a bill is paid for the light of the most expensive in Western Europe. [[The lady]] You were quoting data. Pimec's, for example, match theirs. For companies with a consumption of less than 20 megawatts - then I will return to the 20 megawatts - the prices paid are 24% higher than the average of large economies and 52% higher than the average of advanced European economies of the type of Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, Ireland, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden. Those of us who want an independent Catalonia, that size we talk about. Here and now we have a problem with the price of electricity. Where to act? Increasing competition in the Spanish market, separating activities from large companies, with greater involvement of the regulator; with taxation, harmonising taxation in all final energy sources; reforming the design of the market, giving long-term economic signals for investments in clean technologies; opening up participation in energy markets to distributed resources. In short, influence demand and boost investment in price-cutting technologies. I cannot entertain myself in my amendments because I have one minute left. We will sustain ourselves in the future in the lines we defend and for which we amend the rest in peace Royal Decree-Law 15/2018. Since access to electricity is not the same for all, we will also denounce discriminatory territorial treatment towards Catalan companies. The change in the high voltage tariff that converts 6.1B into 6.2 is a cost of €300 million per year to the 3277 Catalan companies that are connected to 25 kilovolts. In my last speech on energy issues, I had to put this on record even if it was for inventory only. We will also continue to work towards amending an AEI that affects small and medium-sized marketers. Finally, we will continue to work for a democratized, cheap and clean energy because we believe that it is more democratized, cheaper and cleaner. Thank you very much, have a good time and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u54	President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are in the umpteenth debate on the price of light and I have to tell the rapporteur that the title was measures to lower the price of light and, in the end, the initiative is a reform almost entirely of the electricity sector, which also has its own thing as a GNP. In any case, I will do most of my intervention in a rather constructive tone. We share many of the parts of the feeling of this initiative and despite the fact that the Courts are disbanding on Tuesday, we have continued to work, like Mr Capdevila, until the last moment and have tabled amendments in order to be able to decide on a common text. We share, as I say, the feeling of this initiative, for example, with regard to energy efficiency measures. We agree that energy efficiency will be key in all this development and process of energy transition, energy efficiency not only in housing but also at the industrial level. We also share the diagnosis of the costs of the system, that the citizens of our country are paying each other and the other, and again the mistakes that bipartisanism has left us in terms of energy policy in recent years. We also share the need for an audit of the costs of the system and also of the invoice, and we have brought it on countless occasions to the House, it has been voted in favour, but neither the Government of the People's Party nor the Government of the Socialist Party have heard much about the fact that the Chambers are voting for a comprehensive audit of the costs of the system. We also agree - and we share the feeling - on the question of the remuneration of regulated activities under the regulator's reports, regulators who, on the other hand, we do consider that they have to be independent, and some do not, and I will then say what I mean. We also agree that the obstacles laid down in Royal Decree 900/2015 on energy self-consumption must be removed, but, as I say, there is a part of this initiative that we do not share. We do not share that we continue to talk about creating a taxation without establishing why, how and without auditing, first, if all the taxes that we are charging are already being effectively invested, because it may not create more taxes but reorient those that are already being charged. Nor do we agree with the idea of nationalizing hydroelectric power stations. We have already discussed it on several occasions, we believe that the State does not only have neither logistical nor economic capacity at this time, but that it would not be a good decision either. Another thing is that we take advantage of the end of the bidding to establish new rules of play, but, as I say, we do not agree with nationalization. As for the social bonus, there was something that squealed a little bit and that's why we amended it. It seems good to us that it is under income criterion - in fact, it was we who included it in the agreement with the People's Party and the Socialist Party - but we lack the attenuating factor by number of dependent children, by dependents or large families, which we believe should also be conditional on being taken into account. At this point I am going to make a reflection for everyone: What is the point of taking out an energy social bonus if we do nothing to lower the price of light? In the end, we will have more citizens who will not be able to pay their bill for light and no one will have done anything to lower prices and be more affordable. [[Applauds]] That's why we've amended it. As I say, during all this time, these almost three years and three months that we have been in this Parliament, we have discussed this on countless occasions. The citizens know - if they don't know it, we explain it again, to give them that information that some deny them - that 70% of their energy bill has nothing to do with what they consume, that everything is taxes and mistakes - for not using another more colloquial word - policies of bipartisanism. Using energy policy as an electoral tool, which is what the Government is doing today, is what has brought us to this point. We have brought into this House measures on taxation, we have brought into this House a reduction in the price of light, eliminating the electricity tax and the generation tax, and they have always voted against it; they have always voted against any measure we have proposed to lower the price of light. I would like to end this speech by saying that yesterday we had a meeting with the Ministry of Ecological Transition and I came out not only disappointed but also with the feeling that this Government is swindling citizens until the last moment. We've paid for the most expensive election campaign in history, we've been working eight months at the stroke of royal decree and title. [[Applauds]] And you know what hurts me about all this? That with so much royal decree, without financial records and so on, now the only thing that worries them is to keep pulling headlines and putting those who are purging into regulatory bodies, lest they then lose power and not know where they are going to work. We will continue in the next legislature and I hope that by presiding over this government we will work for and for the citizens. We will work to make the bill for the light come down in a real way and not just with headlines. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u55	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u56	Thank you very much, Madam President. The prolific literature accompanying the thirteen points of this non-law proposal, as well as Mr Vendrell's explanations, cannot hide the harmful consequences for national energy policy if they are put into effect, including the industrial blackout. In Spain we are actually paying one of the highest electricity tariffs in Europe, and that has an impact on families, businesses, SMEs and also on industry, particularly the electro-intensive one. It is an industry that has been complaining for a long time about the energy costs and the need for a stable, predictable and homologable tariff that allows it to compete on an equal footing with other countries and therefore avoid crises such as that of Alcoa and the uncertainty of the relocation suffered by thousands of workers linked to the electro-intensive industry and its auxiliaries. The change of government enthusiastically supported by the United States Podemos led to a Copernican turn, even without being constituted the Council of Ministers, to energy policy, to the point of wasting the very extensive work of the committee of experts that for more than half a year has developed, consensually, an important set of analyses and proposals for decarbonisation in accordance with the Paris Agreement. The socialist government threw away such a very important order in exchange for dragging us towards unthinkable measures that will ruin large areas of the population and, in particular, Asturias. The latest decisions taken by this interim Government are a step towards the loss of thousands of jobs, both by industrial closures and by the relocation of production. The energy transition proposed by the Government of Sánchez has already led to the closure of power generation thermal power plants in terms of the preliminaries of insecurity in the electricity supply and the gradual increase in the price of the receipt of light. Moreover, as we have been insistently repeating since Forum, these measures accentuate the disappearance of jobs and have an impact on the depopulation of Asturias. This initiative of Unido Podemos goes in that line of putting up the energy sector, as already raised here in October 2017 against the mining basins and which was also supported by PSOE, Citizens and United Left, who vote one thing here in Madrid but count the opposite in the territories and sectors affected, to which they hypocritically ask patience and trust and, in a couple of months, will also ask for the vote. I conclude, Madam President, by warning once again of the very serious labour and social consequences for Asturias of the energy policy of the Government of Pedro Sánchez and that of its partners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Matínez Oblanca. Mr Campuzano i Canadés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u58	Your Honor, from the seat. Mr Vendrell was told by Mr Capdevila that this is a tailor's calaix initiative, including a number of issues. In some we could agree, in others we could disagree; in any case, as a whole, it is not a different alternative in terms of energy policy. However, I believe that this afternoon's debate - a repetitive debate in recent years - at least highlights some very obvious considerations. The first is that, in this energy policy area, a strong, broad, cross-cutting political agreement has been essential for quite a number of years, allowing this to be a predictable, stable policy that sends clear messages to international markets, to investors; that gives security to companies; that incorporates the industrial dimension that also logically has energy policy; that resolves once and for all the problems arising from energy poverty and that, therefore, the instruments that you point out in your proposal - the energy bonus for both light and gas - are not re-discussed every time. The legislature will certainly end without agreement on energy in a matter in which we all agree that there are worrying elements in terms of costs for the competitiveness of the business fabric, in social terms for families and in the context of the change in the concept of the energy transition, which by its dimension requires even more this need to agree, to agree, to establish a framework of shared rule. It will be impossible to seriously tackle the challenge of the ecological transition without consensus being as broad as possible in this House. And it's going to end the legislature with that star bill that announced the government to fight climate change without being able to deal with it. There we would have had an opportunity to try to build that consensus. The Government's decision to convene the elections in April and not in autumn makes this discussion impossible. In any case, from a strictly punctual perspective, I am missing two considerations from your proposal. One is the need to demand that the Government maintain the suspension of the electricity tax. The actual decree-law currently in force is a temporary suspension in time and, therefore, it would be good for those royal decrees announced by the Government to incorporate that maintenance of the suspension of the electricity tax. Two, an issue that has also concerned us and to which your honor has not referred, such as differential toll costs depending on the power. You know that in the Catalan business fabric you have been concerned about such discrimination in relation to other territories. We would have liked him to make reference to this in his proposal, apart from the fact that there is a new royal decree-law that returns powers to the National Commission on Markets and Competition, but during this 2019 Catalan industry in comparative terms will continue to pay a higher electricity price, negatively affecting our ability to compete in international markets. I missed him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u60	Thank you, President. Sweep on, good afternoon. It is true that the bill for light has become a headache for households, entrepreneurs and individual entrepreneurs, professionals and SMEs, especially thanks to the poor pricing method. In addition, the price of light continues to rise. The policy of economic reforms in the energy market of the previous legislature does not work. The electricity market has been characterised by a price that weighs like a slab on the competitiveness of final production and, in addition, by an uncoordinated regulation that punishes, therefore, consumers, among others. We are faced with a wholesale market which is therefore subject to the volatility of price-fixing technologies, although when this price-fixing system was modified it was carried out with the aim of ensuring stability, which has not been achieved. That is why we believe that a legal change is necessary in order to promote another structure in the markets and to promote measures to defend the competitiveness of the production system. In short, a review of the system, have a diagnosis to seek solutions and synergies so that energy policy is properly implemented and is not based solely on the tariff deficit and without just coordination with industrial or social policy. Stability, guarantee and major agreements are therefore necessary. We agree on many things, but it is true that we have not agreed in this legislature. As far as GNP is concerned, when we talk about reforming the electricity market they talk about establishing some kind of tax, but we believe that this can be an isolated solution that will not alleviate the problem of high prices. It also appears that this is a tax for those power plants that have received additional regulated payments over their lifespan, which is true that they have been able to recover their investments, hydroelectric and nuclear, in large part, without risk; but the maintenance they need is not taken into account either. What we truly understand is that there is a need for structural reform that must bring the prices that consumers pay to the real and justified costs of their production, their supply and also their supply. In their GNP they address some points with which we would agree, such as, for example, the modification of the interruptibility system, and it is that competitiveness is not achieved through this system and, moreover, the auction mechanism is not the best system because, although the product that is auctioned is the same for all the competing companies, the companies that go to the auction are of different typology. Therefore, the costs of a stop in one company or another may differ considerably or in a significant way. However, with some other points we have our reticence, and it is that some measures are addressed that, on the one hand, have already been discussed in this House, such as the recovery of public water management and, on the other, they even address some others that have already been regulated by the Government through the Royal Decree-Law, such as the thermal bond - in which this group denounced that it included elements directly linked to the matter of social assistance, exclusive competence of the autonomous communities or at least in Euskadi - or self-consumption. It should be said that in this Royal Decree-Law 15/2018 we already assumed and collected practically the content of the proposed law that on self-consumption we signed most of the political groups of this Congress. Furthermore, as I said, they also contain some measures that talk about reforms of the electricity bond, the gas bond and energy efficiency, without taking into account, once again, the autonomous communities that have competence in this area. There is therefore also a need for a regulation on coordination. We also understand that sooner or later the challenge of environmental taxation will have to be addressed, but to do so we will certainly have to study and analyse the tax and public price system and its potential for green taxation, as well as perhaps carry out benchmarking studies with the green tax systems of comparable regions and countries in order to draw lessons from their implementation, all of which respect the tax competences of Euskadi and Navarra. The problem with the proposal is that it includes too many points of various kinds which often make it difficult to accept a GNP by agreeing with one another and not with another. It is a thirteen-point proposal that seems perhaps somewhat an electoral programme that they might try to negotiate with the Government and does not seem to have been achieved. For this reason, and despite the fact that the GNP contains aspects with which we agree, in principle we will wait to position ourselves until we see whether a compromise is reached that addresses in another more specific way some points or removes some of the points at issue. Eskerrik asko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u61	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, reducing the price of electricity is a shared objective, as it has an important impact on the lives of families and also on the competitiveness of businesses. I would like to recall that in September, when precisely this GNP which is being debated today was recorded, electricity prices had been triggered in the wholesale electricity markets throughout Europe and that the situation in Spain had worsened as a result of the fact that in the last years of the People's Party government, the forms that would solve the underlying weaknesses of the existing energy model and the outdated design of the electricity market had not been affected. Today, many of the measures proposed to us in your initiative have already been overtaken by the action of the Socialist Government and by the time we are here. They will agree with me that much more could have been done if the right and the independenceists had not united their votes against the processing of budgets where important measures were collected. What is obvious, although it does not weigh, is that in just nine months of government, the Socialists have pushed for a change of course and Spain is now aligned with the Paris Agreement and the objectives of the 2030 Agenda and the urgent measures adopted in the short term in October by royal decree-law are taking effect. That's how the data attest to it. The average monthly wholesale price was reduced by 9 % in October and 13 % in November and December 2018. This Government has also provided responses to the most vulnerable consumers, but temporary limitations, as I said, have made it difficult to undertake more ambitious measures that we do not renounce. The most important thing, however, is that the Government has already laid the foundations for the energy transition and, with it, also for a structural reduction in the price of electricity by recovering the path of renewables and efficiency. Do not forget that the generation costs are the main cause of the increases in prices, derived from the dependence on fossil energy, which we lack and have to import, and of the increase in the cost resulting from the higher price for CO2 emissions which, as you know, tripled over the past year; on the contrary, the effect of renewables is essential to reduce the price. I'll give you an example. On 24 February, the Spanish market recorded the lowest electricity price in Europe compared to countries such as Germany, France, Italy or Great Britain as a result of record wind production to the detriment of combined gas cycle production, which fell by 77,2 % compared to the previous week and which made it apparent that in this month of February the average price is 1 % lower than the month of February of the previous year. For the Socialists, therefore, the key to price reduction lies in the massive influx of renewables, as they are the cheapest and most competitive technologies, while at the same time fighting climate change. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain has enormous potential, not in vain in 2008 we were world leaders. Ten years later and as a result of the disastrous policy of the People's Party Government, we led an accumulation of convictions in the international arbitration tribunals estimated at some EUR 10 billion, obstacles, legal uncertainty that caused a disinvestment that led to the production of renewable energy in 2017 being at levels below 2010 or that since 2014 the share of renewable energy in the total generation was below 40%. Years of setback that the Socialist Government is already amending with the final impetus for the consolidation of renewables and energy efficiency. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, it was the socialist government that removed the obstacles to self-consumption, which abolished the so-called sun tax.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u64	It has submitted the preliminary draft law on climate change and energy transition, which has forwarded the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan to Brussels, and it is the Government that has adopted a fair transition strategy for the first time. Ladies and gentlemen, all this work will undoubtedly contribute to reasonable, stable and predictable prices, to ensuring that no one is left behind and that the energy transition is a real opportunity for economic development and for the well-being of people by generating employment and wealth. I'm sure we've got it all figured out. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u65	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanquer Alcaraz. Mr Juncal Rodríguez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good afternoon. Mr Vendrell, the only thing we would agree with is the title of your GNP: Measures to reduce the price of electricity. Here we agree, it is an objective of the People's Party, but I will not go into the analysis of the thirteen proposals because it would be impossible, and I will explain why. Please do not take this as a parliamentary contempt, but simply last week, as the Socialist spokesman has mentioned, the Pniec, the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan, and everything we are talking about now about the situation of the electricity market will no longer be current, because obviously the objective of the next legislature will be precisely all that transformation that comes upon us. I will start with global issues and concepts, because all these subjects are multiple and complex. Therefore, there is no doubt that we need to go to a decarbonised economy and I assume that no one will deny that technological progress is still needed in order to achieve this. No one can doubt either that such progress will have to be made in a sensible way. For starters, in the report of the International Carbon Energy Agency 2018 Spain does not appear either as a consumer or as a producer, etc. Coal consumption data, 5485 world and Spain consumes 20.6 years; oil, gasoline and others consumption, 6187 world and Spain 86.5; nuclear energy 883 equivalent tons and Spain 18; natural gas, 4478 and Spain 33.5, so my group understands that within the global problem of the world the role of Spain is minimal. First step we miss in that Pniec? That they should be proportional, referring to the effort made around the world, or are we going to take on an effort in Spain without the rest of the world doing so? Is it a global challenge or only affecting our homeland? Well, you'll tell me. From what I have heard from you it seems that we are going to be the saviors of the planet because you are using this problem of energy and climate change politically to extract electoral revenue. I remind you of coal, oil and nuclear consumption data. For its part, the Pniec refers to increasing interconnections with France by 15% of the installed capacity; at present it does not reach 5%, and you tell the citizen that France operates and will continue to operate with 57 nuclear reactors; that is, that the energy coming from France, from that interconnection, is mostly of nuclear origin? What are we gonna do? To buy and consume nuclear power, although here we will shut down power plants. By the way, a sandwich I read the other day: it seems that in some competitions the energy supply was rewarded or required to be 100 percent renewable. You will already explain to me how in the electricity distribution network you can distinguish which is renewable and which is nuclear, because there is everything mixed. Anyway, solemn, very solemn but silly. Shall we close the coal? Do we produce CO2? Right. But what a coincidence!, two months ago in Morocco came into operation a coal thermal power plant of 1400 megawatts equivalent to that which is close to my village, in As Pontes, and we started to buy energy because, among other factors, Morocco has no CO2 rate. How do we explain to the Galicians of my province, from As Pontes and Cerceda, to the Asturians, to the Pontiffs, to the Ponferradins, to the Turolenses, to the Almerians, as you say to them: we close, you lose the job, but we buy from Morocco the electricity produced with coal in Morocco?What do we tell the workers of Alcoa, Ferroatlantica, etc.? Will we have a fair transition plan tell us? Look, I already have the socialist experience of naval conversion in Ferrol in 1982: thirty-seven years later we lose population, higher levels of unemployment, permanent crisis. In Asturias the Plan of Coal, Ponferrada, in short, the usual. What the PSOE always knows how to do very well, that I have to recognize: promise and promise until I put in, and once I put in, nothing of the promised, vote in the ballot box I mean. [[Rumors]] 'Dieselazo': the minister's recklessness, they no longer prohibit it, but they still think so, although it is reasonable and sensible to do so when the technical requirements and conditions so permit are met. I'm done, Madam President. We give up coal and nuclear technologies but, well, at least recognize that they were wrong and that they deceived their voters, both of them, and they will continue to deceive them because until yesterday they said that coal was and nuclear at the age of forty. Well, the Pniec already recognizes ten more years of nuclear generation and maintaining a share of coal quota. So we have natural gas as the only technology to guarantee backup and I wonder: Man!, is there anyone interested in maintaining or defending the gas lobby? Because I ask you a simple question: you condemn windfall profits in a scandalous way, but how is the price going to be determined in the future with the only alternative of gas, since you have laminated the competition of nuclear and coal? Simply the gas will be the one that will mark the final product, with which we already have windfall profits so spoiled by you. Just as a reminder and ending, the prices of the last decade of renewables both photovoltaic and thermosolar, pool and wind. [[shows a graph]] Just tell them to wait for them to succeed because of course, if not, the times, loss of employment and competitiveness for Spain will be tremendous. I hope the ballot boxes will fix it and you will not continue to rule. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Juncal Rodriguez. Mr Vendrell Gardeñes, for the sole purpose of whether or not you accept the amendment tabled, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u68	Thank you, President. We don't accept them.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u69	Thank you very much. - THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, RELATING TO THE INFRAFINANCE OF CONCERTED EDUCATION AND TO AVOID THE ELIMINATION OF DEDUCTIONS IN THE TAX OF FAMILY RENTALS WITH CHILDREN IN CONCERTED COLLECTIONS. [[File number 162/000906]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u70	We continue with the non-law proposal of the Citizens Parliamentary Group on ending the underfunding of concerted education and avoiding the elimination of deductions in the income tax of families with children in concerted schools. Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm dreaming of evening ways. I wanted to begin this afternoon intervention with a memory of a well-known Andalusian poet, Antonio Machado, who died in exile eighty years ago. [[Applauds]] And yes, ladies and gentlemen, I do so without asking for permission from the PSOE or the Socialist Party Government and neither do we ask for permission, in fact, because we are not even willing to negotiate with the Socialist Party of Sanchism, because, on the one hand, we have given ourselves up to negotiating the unity of Spain with those who want to break it and, on the other, we have given the Spanish economy to the populists and with that our parliamentary group does not negotiate. This is incompatible with Citizens. This Socialist Party is not the Socialist Party of 1985, which established concerted education in Spain, and for me, as a member of a liberal party, it is an honour to come up to this rostrum in defense of the right to education of article 27 of the Constitution, in defense of freedom of education, in defense of concerted education and, in essence, in defense of the freedom of parents to choose the education they want for their constitutionally consecrated children. And for this to be possible, it is necessary for the centres, especially those supported by public funds, to have sufficient funding and this is the main objective of this non-legislative proposal that this parliamentary group presents today. Because, let's remember, the cost per square in concerted education is 50% of the cost on the public network and this indicates two things: at best, greater efficiency in management, but it also indicates underfunding and indicates that insufficient public resources are being allocated. Indeed, public money is not for everyone, but it is a matter of priorities. There are priorities of the Socialist Parliamentary Group of Congress and of the People's Parliamentary Group and for what we are going to rely on the nationalists for the establishment and maintenance, even expansion, of all kinds of chiringuitos, while there are others who believe that budgets have to be more social because they devote more money to education and health, which is what public money should be for, and that, obviously, when money is not enough, parents end up providing money. Faced with this and with the change of the Socialist Party, we have found that there is a war against concerted education, but that this war is not only ideological, but that we are already beginning to have a fiscal war. Why? Because when something does not like Mr Sánchez what he is trying to do is to establish a tax quite openly as he has done, for example, with the bank or the speculators or by oblique means, it is the question of eliminating deductions from concerted education. Faced with this, the spokesman for my group Marta Martín, and I put some questions about what was happening with this question of deductions to concerted teaching and the answer given to us, quite cryptic, came to say that we had to check all deductions to the concerted because none of them met the requirements. Subsequently, the Minister of Finance publicly stated that deductions to the agreed should not be checked all of them, but that parents would be required to submit supplementary statements. After this, we have not seen reactions from other political groups, perhaps with the exception of the former Director General of the Tax Agency with the People's Party, Ignacio Ruiz-Jarabo, who said that the parents were all misdemeanours and that they had to make complementary statements. Look, I'm a tax inspector, and I think any taxpayer, at least, has a right to be found out before a number of gentlemen, in the abstract, say they've done everything wrong. What have I seen over the years? In 2010 I saw how 659 defrauders of the HSBC Falciani list, instead of opening an inspection, the socialist government sent them a letter to regularize. I have seen how in this Congress a non-law proposal was passed so that the 30,000 defrauding amnesties of Montoro, of the People's Party, paid 3% - which was a shame and was unconstitutional - instead of 10% which at least established the norm and, instead of sending them a letter to regularize, what they sent was the non-law proposal - which also promoted Citizens - that is, signed by the spokesman of our group, Mr Girauta, and by myself. What do I think is a shame? That the PSOE is pretending to equate the parents of the concert with the worst defrauders in this country. [[Applauds]] To parents, who have done nothing but confirm a draft, he wants to charge them, if they have two children in the concerted education, 3000 euros more penalties and interest for having made the income declaration confirming the corresponding drafts. At this point and for a few days to call for elections, ladies and gentlemen of the various political groups, I am not going to ask you to vote in favour of this non-law proposal, what I am going to ask you to do is to have the courage to come up here and tell the Spanish what they want to do with taxes and with concerted education, with the educational model we have. In the name of Citizens, I can tell you that what we are going to do is, in the first place, allocate the scarce resources of the fight against fraud where there are real pockets of fraud. I would be ashamed if I told the parents of the concerted education that they have to regularize - which, by the way, we are talking about a million and a half families - and yet ministers who have an interposed society say that they have acted very correctly to pay less taxes. [[Applauds.-Mrs. Martínez Seijo: A Villacis]] Of course, what we're going to do is lower taxes on the middle and working class and not go up the back door. That's right, so that the accounts are squared and those tax cuts are real. What we are going to do is to guarantee the right to education - I conclude, President - in accordance with article 27 of the Constitution. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. De la Torre Díaz. In defence of the amendments put forward by the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs González Guinda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u73	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, already in 1985 LODE defined our educational system as a mixed or dual one, of complementary networks that will facilitate the exercise of families to choose freely the educational model for their children. To this end, as you know, the figure of the educational concert was established, whereby families could choose between public centres or private centres of social initiative which, meeting the requirements laid down by law, were financed from public funds. Well, at present - some information has already been poured here - of the real investment in education in Spain only 14% is dedicated to the financing of the concerted, which does not correspond to the weight that it has in our educational system, because it hosts almost 26% of our students. It has already been said, but it is desirable to repeat, that the investment made by the State per pupil is half in the concerted one that in the public one. It should be remembered that it is not an exclusive education of Spain, since countries in our environment have it; in the specific case of the United Kingdom and Belgium, private entities financed from public funds account for 57 % and 51 %, respectively. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like here today, in view of the political moment at which we are in, this non-legislative proposal, to which we have tabled an amendment, at least to clarify the positions of some political parties. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, I would like to know what position will be yours in the future, because when you arrived in the Community of Madrid you proposed a cut of EUR 3 million for concerted education and put under suspicion the efficiency of your accounts, but quickly rectified by the pressures of the moment. Today they defend their fair funding, which we are pleased to see. And tomorrow? What position will they take? Depending on what? Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, with you I have made this clear after a year and a half in the subcommittee of the State Pact for Education. For you the concerted must disappear and the sooner the better, as you advocate a monolithic teaching of the State. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, what position do you stand for? How many of you take your children to the concert? You don't have to raise your hand like in the classroom. You in your royal decree of educational reform have ignored concerted teaching and in your past and failed budgets as well. They do not put forward any proposals to save under-staffing. I therefore ask you now, at the moment when we are at the door of the general elections, what position are you going to stand on the agreed one? The one that demonstrates your royal decree or the one that many of you - I am sure - are going to be forced to defend at the gates of the concerted schools to those who lead your children? Your Minister, Mrs Celaá, to whom we have heard many times about the subsidiary nature of the concerted, will you use that same speech in your autonomous community, the Basque Country, where more than 50% of the centres are concerted? Are you going to tell them that this subsidiary character passes by counting on these centers as long as they are necessary and then, when it is considered that they are not, to end them by starvation? We have been accused on many occasions that in the PP we support concerted education to the detriment of the public. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I studied at a public school, a public institute and a public university; I opposed being a teacher of public education, and I took my children to a public school, a public institute and a public university. In my party we believe in quality public education, in our public education, but precisely since that belief we also believe in quality concerted education as a guarantee of a fundamental principle of our Constitution: freedom. It is not subsidiary and goes beyond being complementary; it guarantees the freedom of parents to choose the education they want for their children. This freedom of choice of parents only goes through fair funding, don't have the slightest doubt. Many students, parents and teachers expect to have a clear stance on the concerted approach. Ours already have it. The PP has always defended its just financing, which is fundamental to ensuring its continuity. We have always defended it, now we defend it and in the future you have the assurance that we will also continue to defend it. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u74	Thank you very much, Mrs González Guinda. At the time of the fixing of positions, the Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u75	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will vote in favour of this non-law proposal which seeks to avoid another socialist offensive against the freedom of education, in this case, by affecting the economy of the families of the pupils of concerted centres, to which the Government of Pedro Sánchez, through the Ministry of Finance, wants to apply the collecting maneuver through measures that also pretend to be retroactive, treating them as defrauders. [[A honourable Member: What a barbarity!]] The Government's offensive against families of pupils from concerted centres shows the failure of the Organic Education Act, which established in 2006 a commission to study the amount of concert modules and to assess the total cost of teaching on a free basis, since the Administration does not bear that cost more than partially. It has been a useless commission, because the concerted centres have had to look for formulas to compensate for the mismatches of their financing, especially by means of financial contributions that families make voluntarily - I stress, voluntarily -. Look where you look, this is not tax advantageism in the style of some socialist ministers. We are therefore faced with a case in which concerted education faces another socialist attempt to stifle it economically. And here we have the Tax Agency trying to apply a new collection regulation, reinterpreting that the payment of certain fees paid by families with children in concerted centres is not considered as a donation, something unacceptable, because concerted centres provide educational services to students who are not the cause of the donation. In fact, as a matter of law, neither the concerted centre can demand a contribution from the families of the students nor the families for paying it can claim anything. In short, we are faced with a new socialist attack on freedom of education, which is in addition to insufficient public funding and which, in the specific case of Asturias, is another round of nutcracker to the concerted, which they want to laminate. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u76	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Citizens today bring a non-law proposal, a non-binding proposal in discount time of this legislature, to talk about the supposed underfunding of the concerted school. Before, Mr. De la Torre, your partner said that fewer slogans and more solutions, so now I say it to you: less slogans and more solutions. It is clear from this proposal that we are on a pre-campaign, and his pre-campaign for concerted education is also joined by the People's Party, which goes up here to talk about the right to concert. Mother, I don't know where that right came from! There is the right to education, not the right to concert, because if there is the right to concert, they will tell me what we do. Do we build schools or don't we build them? Depending on whether you want to attack the public or attack certain centers and certain faculty, we will be able to hire it or we will not be able to hire it. What do we do? What is the stability of public school? That's why we have to bet, for public school, free and quality. The concerted school has to be something subsidiary, which complements the public. Thus was born the concerted school: private educational places paid with public money. That means it's funded, no more or less. Concerted education is designed, as I said, to cover in a subsidiary and exceptional way the lack of public places. So, I don't know where they see the problem of the funding of the concerted. It's financed with public money. And asking parents for fees is an abuse, and we don't say it, the courts say it; it's an abuse to make families pay extra fees, when the seats of the concertee are paid with public money. So I don't know where you see the problem of the under-financing of the concerted. They come here to ask for more investment for the concerted, which is undoubtedly a declaration of intent. What you want is to drown the public and let the money go to the chiringuitos of your little friends so that you can control what is taught and what is not taught in the classrooms. If you have minimal respect for education, get your campaign out of the classroom. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, silence. Thank you very much, Mrs. Sorlí Fresquet. For the same Joint Group, Mr Campuzano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u79	Thank you, Madam President. I'm also speaking from the seat. Catalonia is a country in which more or less 50% of students go to concerted school and, therefore, the change in criteria of the Tax Agency has caused enormous concern in families, breaking with the more or less accepted dynamics that these donations to the foundations of the concerted schools were perfectly legal. In addition, all this in a context, ladies and gentlemen, of an under-financing of the school agreed with a module that does not respond to the actual costs of the service being provided, which logically explains those requirements that are made to families. My group, therefore, on this occasion and without precedent, will agree with the position of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. It seems to us that the change in criteria of the Tax Agency is wrong, affects families and in a country like Catalonia that is unacceptable. We are absolutely convinced that it makes a political mistake to confront the public school with the concerted school, because the concerted school is part of the public service of education, provided by agents who, in Catalonia, in practice, are all non-profit initiatives, linked to the Catholic world, linked to teacher initiatives, linked to parent initiatives, and also the effort in the construction of public policy on education in Catalonia over the past 40 years has been based on this model of collaboration with the civil society initiative. We are surprised by this change in the approach of the Tax Agency, we find it unwise in terms of the construction of a shared public policy, and in the same way as in the previous debate we said that in the area of energy and climate change, solid agreements, sustained over time, which do not depend on majorities, should be part of a common place. This discussion, the public-concerted confrontation, does not make any sense anymore, because concerted education, which is also public, forms and will be part of the reality, fortunately, of our educational panorama. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u81	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Today Citizens brings us to debate a non-law proposal to avoid the elimination of deductions in the income tax of families with children in concerted schools. This group usually abstains on fiscal matters, because both Navarra and Euskadi have a differentiated tax system, but today we are going to vote against the proposal presented, because it goes against what we have regulated in Euskadi and because we are not only talking about taxation, but also about educational issues in which we have exclusive competence. In addition, it must be said that the IRPF is a concerted tribute to autonomous regulation and, therefore, that it is the responsibility of each foral deputy. In other words, it is they who collect and decide the taxes that citizens have to pay, and those who set out, where appropriate, the deductions to be applied. All of this takes into account the capacities and possibilities of taxpayers, particularly in the light of the principle of equity. There is no such deduction in Euskadi, and therefore parents of children enrolled in concerted schools are not entitled to deduct these payments on their income tax return, because the amounts paid by these families, whether voluntary or compulsory, are in the quality of the services provided by the school and therefore a counterpart is received either directly or indirectly. So, you can't talk about donation in order to be entitled to deduction; it's a payment for a service. What can be deduced is the one-time donations without receiving compensation for a service, provided that they do not involve a service. Having said that, and in the face of the impending election campaign, the Citizens Group believes that it is using this proposal more as an electoral weapon, claiming that non-deduction entails a rise in taxes to the middle-low class and restricts the rights of parents to choose the education of their children. We believe that nothing further from reality, first, because the choice of parents is voluntary, and it also depends on their purchasing capacity to send a child to a concerted or public school; and, second, because no additional tax has been imposed, but a number of deductions have been corrected that have been misapplied and that the Tax Agency has been aware of through a series of inspections - inspections to which all taxpayers are subject - and because this does not affect the tax deductions in force in the IRPF that exist in the field of education in some autonomous communities. Moreover, it must be said that this controversy is not new, since in 2015 there was a fine in this regard in Andalusia and Madrid the High Court of Justice has come to say regarding the income in question, that since they are voluntary contributions that are intended to finance expenses in the teaching activity and being the recipients the students, the amounts are in the quality of the services provided, therefore being perceived as a counter-performance. On the other hand, and given the amendments tabled, we do not agree with them either because they do not respect the competences which Euskadi and Navarra have in the field of education. As regards the financing model, therefore, it will be in this case for both the Navarro and the Basque Governments to determine the financing system of these colleges, both of the parties and of the public. In this regard, I would like to recall that, in terms of funding, equity must be a nuclear element on which the education system must focus. As I said, this group is not going to support a proposal that is mainly based on an electoral criterion without clear analysis and which also confuses taxation, education and ideology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u82	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u83	Lord De la Torre, listening to his speech, came to the conclusion that he has not come to talk about the concerted school but about his book, the book of Citizens, a book that is called 'crispation', to which some point quickly. After the chapter 'the Catalan language is terrible' they went to the chapter 'doctrination'. By the way, in 2018, of the 3,800 complaints received by the inspection in Catalonia only 50 were for indoctrination, and of the 50 only one led to the inspection to apply a corrective, but to you the truth does not prevent a good slogan. I mean, the truth, for what? The important thing is its electoral slogan, the crisp: Spain goes wrong, the blame is - they have already said it - the socialists, the communists, the independenceists. And they stay so calm, because they are. They have the enormous lightness of being: neither being nor being. Your book 'crispation' in politics I don't know if it will give you votes - to Vox, I'm sure; to you, I don't know - but in school it's lethal. It is lethal for education, because education needs coexistence and respect, and you systematically destroy coexistence for those who do not think like you, and call themselves liberals. Please! Liberals? Free them from what? Your Honor, a large majority of us know that public and concerted schools are not enemies but allies of the same goal, which is education. Whoever has been the enemy of a kind of school - the public school - has been the right one. That is why we want a good quality public school, an example of innovation and a fight for equity. This public school is part of a society where freedom of education is a right, and of course we are for freedom of education, but also for the duty to account for the money that is received. If you talk to the concerted schools, you will find that many say: Hey, this school next door is hurting us, it is teaching us a reality that leads us to difficult situations. Therefore, when we talk about reviewing the concert model, it is not about abolishing it, but about agreeing on the objectives of the school, on its educational project, on the evaluation of results. Concerting, in many cases, can be more and better concerted with those schools that have these objectives, and in cases where there is fraud, stop concerting. I've talked about education, which you haven't done. I know you guys weren't coming to this, you were coming to the election scandal, but in these three years I've never refused to talk about education. Mrs Martín knows: I have never refused to talk about education. I will end the stanza of a magnificent poet, a fellow chairman, Díaz Trillo. From his book A world and apart, which was good enough to give it to me, I have found a poem very appropriate for today; it is called 'Vanitas', and it says at the end: The cold of vanity without truce of men, vain pity if it is always administered by his assassins. Thank you very much. Education, education and education. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u84	Thank you very much, Mr Olòriz Serra. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Mena Arca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u85	Thank you, President. From the creators of indoctrination in the Catalan school, there is now the underfunding of the concerted school. I say to you, Mr De la Torre, Inspector of Finance, that you, Citizens, are proposing to us this afternoon a PNL on the shielding of the privileges of some concerted schools. I am fundamentally surprised by three evidences of this proposal: the first, you have not dedicated a single GNP in this plenary in the three years of parliamentary term - not a single - to bringing forward proposals to defend public education, and I would like to remind you that public education is the guarantor of the education system, which is making an effort to ensure social cohesion and equal opportunities, and that which is sweeping the whole territory. Mr De la Torre, in the three years of crisis that have most impacted the public school - the moment of the biggest cuts, the precarious working conditions of the interim teacher, the underfunding of the public school, the elimination by almost 95% by the governments of the People's Party of educational inclusion policies - what you have done is to silence, feed the policies of the People's Party and be accomplices of the People's Party. There they show what interests they are defending Citizens. Secondly, you are seen a little bit as the plumber; you are presented here as adalides of center and liberalism, but you have already gone through all the possible ideological stages only in three years: you have been social democrats, then social liberals, then liberals, to end up sharing government in Andalusia and photo in Columbus with the ultra-right. [[Applauds]] That's what Citizens are doing. But this proposition unmasks them. Do you know where you put the focus, and that's very significant, when you talk about education? They are focusing on the benefits and fiscal privileges of the elites. That's the citizen education model. Welcome, Mr De la Torre, to the world of those who do not need public school to guarantee their fundamental right because most of this country does need it. Its non-legislative proposal does not mention that concerted schools should ensure co-education, school enrolment balances with specific educational needs; improve the working conditions of educational staff, because in concerted schools educational staff are also ill-treated at work; prevent families from having to pay fees that, far from being voluntary, have become compulsory; avoid the religious indoctrination that is still taking place in many concerted schools; or encourage the participation of families in the design of such centres. No, his proposition doesn't talk about it. When you talk about education, it is more, when you also talk about concerted education you do not talk about all this that I have told you; you are only interested in tax regulations and tax benefits that accompany some concerted schools and that is why your non-law proposal is based. And third, and very important, you also do not devote any effort to correcting the anomaly of the threefold educational network present in the Spanish education system in our European environment. Educational concerts were born in the 1980s thanks to a very good news, which was the universalization of the right to education, because before that we popular classes had no right to education, and that is probably the model that is defending Citizens And thanks to that good news... [[applause]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u86	Mr. Singing, you're being heard perfectly. Please, Mr. Singing, you are not speaking. Respect the speaker.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u87	Thank you, President. It seems that some, neither public nor private education. [[Applauds]] He told them that the concerts were born under the right to universalization of education and under the criteria of transitionality, until the entire network was covered by the public guarantee and the principles of subsidiarity, that there were no concerts where public places were left. It seems to me that it is something even of receipt, of administrative efficiency, that you so defend. That model has been perverted and you want to continue to pervert it, with which we have an educational model in the management and ownership of the centres that is not homologable to what is happening in Europe. I'm done with the president. Citizens, stop using education for electoral purposes. I have told you more than once from this rostrum, stop using education to segregate, to separate and to discriminate against citizenship according to the weight of the pocket of families, because the inheritance that we will have the children of the popular classes are rights, it is public education and it is the public services that you want to mistreat from the institutions. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Mena Arca. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Martínez Seijo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Lack of rigour, opportunism, alarmism, exaggeration and a lot of vavenes is what characterizes citizens' educational policy, by calling it somehow. Because what we see in the policy that has brought us through this legislature is a pamphlet charged and fed by the widespread suspicion of indoctrination in Spain, by its absolute rejection of the cultural richness of the languages in Spain, by its model of educational MIR, by its absolute obsession with re-centralizing the educational system and now come to us with a disturbing non-law proposal on the concerted centres. Fear you have to have the centers arranged when Citizens get their hands on some issues that are tremendously serious and that you are addressing with a superficiality that panics. We couldn't expect anything else. After the lessons they have been trying to give us throughout this legislature, today, Mr De la Torre, they come here with a speech, once again, toxic and full of lies or half truths. [[Applauds]] We didn't expect less from Citizens. So far they have tried to give us lessons on how education in Spain should be managed, from its lack of knowledge of management. But now, unfortunately, they already rule in Andalusia and, unfortunately for Andalusian education, they carry the Education Council. They want to fix a problem that they have been talking about throughout the legislature, such as school failure and school dropouts, nothing more and nothing less than the elimination of a thousand teachers. Nothing more and nothing less. [[Applauds]] They also want to end school failure with a plan for elementary school children to spend another 15 days in the summer. In Andalusia, in summer, fifteen more days in the classroom. Screen, almost nothing. Wouldn't it seem much more appropriate to invest all these resources throughout the course and to avoid school failure and abandonment when it is still in time? Well, no. Today we find the approach to educational concerts. By the way, it is not a matter of contrasting the public school with the concerted school, but rather, Mr De la Torre, that is not the case. What you put forward here is a series of arguments that give us a lot of doubts about what I was saying because, of course, you do not address anything with the seriousness that an issue such as the funding of the education system requires. We would like to know - and I do ask - what citizens' policy is with regard to educational concerts. They defend social demand and defend the school cheque. Do you really believe what you are asking in this GNP, that the funding of the school post be matched across the publicly funded network? You have said this and quite the contrary. That is the policy of Citizens, the permanent contradiction. Today, they call for the convening of the Sectoral Committee on Concerted Education. Well, I'm telling you, he's been summoned twice. And they ask that the concert model be reviewed. For the revision of that concert has also been discussed at that table which you are demanding and which, by the way, it was the Socialist Government that convened it, in front of the People's Party which for eight years did not even remember that there was the Concerted Education Bureau. So a little more rigour when they come to raise certain issues. In their specific case, what they are asking today is to equate the public network with the concerted network. And I wonder: How do you plan to finance it? Where do you intend to extract those resources that obviously have to come out of somewhere? Do they intend to ask the Government or do they intend to detract it from the autonomous communities, which are competent in educational management? Once again, they get back into educational skills. In addition, they intend to demand, so joyfully, that the school square be the same in Euskadi as in Castilla-La Mancha, that in Extremadura or in Castilla and León. I'm saying how are you going to do it, with your high-inspection model? Controlling and inspecting all over Spain? Detracting funds from the Finance Boards to allocate them to other sites? By intervening in the resources of the autonomous communities? I would like you to clarify this when you raise such questions. What do you plan to do with the faculty payrolls of concerted education? You will know that there is something called the delegated payment which, for your information, is managed by the Spanish Government itself, the Ministry of Education, in many autonomous communities; the payroll of the faculty of the firm. We would like to know your position on this issue, which is of profound seriousness. On quotas, deductions, donations, payments, etc., where have you learned that this Government intends to change these criteria? Once again, they bring us back another fake, another false truth, another lie. Alarmism is the only thing that consists of its educational policy and its general policy. [[applause]] It's all they know how to do, create social alarmism. There is no general campaign, and you, who say you're a tax inspector, should know that. There is no inspection, there are simply regular controls that are usually done through computer media and that have been done for years, it is nothing new. There has never been a change in tax rules. As a tax inspector you should know the differences between a donation and a fee. The reality of all this is that some concerted centres, knowing that the law prohibits this requirement of quotas for families, require such quotas for out-of-school activities. There are associations of parents who have denounced these quotas, which have been widely requested in some centres. Interestingly, in these generalized controls it has been found that there are families, Your Honor, who have deducted these quotas by making them look like donations. But it turns out that things are fulfilled when they are legal; that, yes, I don't know if what you're pretending to be is that at the moment you're getting a big look at any irregularities. It may happen to you as your fellow members of the People's Party or some of your parliamentary group, who seem to be panicking about tax obligations. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, of course, we are going to vote against your non-law proposal because, among other things, it lacks absolute rigour, because it is full of vagueness and because an issue like the agreed centres must be addressed seriously and rigorously, which you do not do at all. Finally, as the U.S. partner Podemos has said, I ask you to stop playing with people, stop lying, stop cheating and stop using people and education for election purposes. That's all right. That's right, listen to me, if you continue with this policy, I assure you that in the end you're going to be turned against them like a boomeran. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u90	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez Seijo. For the sole purpose of whether or not you accept the amendment, Mr De la Torre Díaz, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u91	No, we don't accept it. The vote will take place on their terms.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u92	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u93	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group into the Congress, so that the Government can explain whether the educational reform will guarantee the right to quality education and freedom of education. For the author group of the initiative, and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Moneo Díez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, last week, the People's Parliamentary Group was asking the Minister of Education to explain to Parliament the development that her ministry intended to achieve in relation to two fundamental rights: the right to education and freedom of education. I personally thanked him for his words, but the truth is that neither the legislative initiative so far promoted by this Government nor the bill that they have intended to pass at a discount time the education system can expect anything new. This government has done an archeology exercise trying to rescue those elements already banished by the most cutting-edge educational systems to shape a project whose only medal to receive could have been the repeal of the Lomce, but it is not even that. It seems, moreover, that it was only about that. This legislature which is coming to an end, ladies and gentlemen, could have been the legislature of the agreement on education, the legislature of the great transformation of the system, the modernization of the system, but you, Mr Socialist Group, did not want it. The minister said that we, proposing alternatives to Lomce, corrected ourselves and I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, none of that. We, the People's Parliamentary Group, are aware of the unstoppable evolution of educational systems, of the need to provide adequate attention to deep learning, to the development of non-cognitive skills, digital technologies and computational skills, to entrepreneurship and innovation, to humanity, but also to scientific education. We also note how the centres experience, within the margin of their autonomy, new models of student group management that allow them to deepen more dynamically and effectively the whole of the contents and competences that they must acquire. We are also permeable to a society in constant movement and to the demands that the whole of the same expectation of education, especially regarding the adaptation of training and learning to the social and economic context and its rapid evolution. We believe that teachers are the critical element on which to focus the whole reform because their quality depends on improving the quality of the results of the whole system. Throughout this term we have insisted on this issue: no reform would yield results if we did not provide the teacher with initial training, a model of selection, qualification and career development in line with the demands and needs of a modern and innovative education system. To us, ladies and gentlemen, we are not afraid of the changes, what really frightens us is the application of the principle of Lampedusa: that everything changes so that everything remains the same. And we do not want everything to remain the same, we are fully aware of the important opportunities that Spanish democracy has provided for our education system: the extension of compulsory education up to the age of sixteen, early schooling, which is now, at three years, free of charge, 100 percent and reaches all families, the increase in the number of graduates in compulsory secondary education and high school education, and over the past seven years, the decline in early education from 26.3% to 17.9%, 8 points less, ladies and gentlemen, closer to that 15% that Europe marks for 2020, as well as the determined drive towards vocational training. Dual vocational training, ladies and gentlemen, has been a magnificent alternative for pupils, who have fivefold increased their presence in the classrooms. We have made progress in equity; Spain, in fact, is one of the OECD countries where the socio-economic index has the least influence on the results of pupils and where backward pupils are lower than the European average. However, the quality of the system remains our outstanding subject. So we have to do something better because if we look at the PISA 2015 report, we are not doing it well enough. And this is the meaning of our motion, ladies and gentlemen, not to deny the obvious, not to close ourselves to what is happening in the rest of the world, but on a very clear basis, which marks us in articles 27 and 149 of the Spanish Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, forty years after the adoption of the Spanish Constitution we should not be discussing these issues, but unfortunately we have to do so because we cannot guarantee the right to education for all and its full extent if there is not the same equality of opportunity in access to and the level of quality of education that we offer to students and their families. A Spain of different speeds in educational matters is a luxury that we cannot afford; a Spain where the right of parents to choose the education, the center and the educational model they want for their children is sought in accordance with the Spanish Constitution and the doctrine of the Constitutional Court itself is absolutely contrary to our rule of law. No transition or subsidiarity, ladies and gentlemen. A Spain that facilitates the mobility of pupils, that harmonises their level of knowledge, that guarantees within the education system the official language of our country and, of course, also the co-official languages, responds to a right, not to a privilege. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish Constitution is also an example of success in education. The laws that collect these rights do not fail, there is no ambiguity with regard to them. Fails, ladies and gentlemen, the tortuous, insolidary and interested use that some people make of the interpretation of them. This parliamentary group would like us, on the basis of the constitutional framework, to be able to build among all a quality education system, modern, innovative, capable of correcting its mistakes and learning from experience; ambitious, transparent, oriented towards responding to the needs of each and every student individually and collectively, so that none of them loses the path of their future. [[The lady]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we have missed a great opportunity, that these wishes cannot be fulfilled in this legislature, but, ladies and gentlemen, this parliamentary group continues to maintain its commitment and, of course, does not lose hope. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u95	In defence of the amendment put forward by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor. As all honourable Members know, the defence of the amendments is ahead of the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Three and a half years ago, the citizens trusted me to represent them in this House. They had a gesture of enormous generosity that I'm going to thank for all my life. It's been a few months since I had the honor of working for all the Spaniards. Today, citizens can judge my work with the right ones, with the wrong ones, and they can have an opinion already based on evidence. Knowing that many things have been done that could be better, I tell you that I am quite proud of the parliamentary work I have done. [[Applauds]] Most of the nearly 400 initiatives I have presented have been focused on education. I believe that I have conveyed the importance that this public policy has for Citizens. We said that education was the future and we kept thinking about it, we said that we had to take this issue very seriously and do an educational reform without politicization and looking at the countries in our environment and we keep thinking about it. We said that it was necessary to get to work from the consensus and we promoted a pact with a working table, with a constructive attitude. I assure you that I personally have left my skin, hours, ideas, discussions, documents for more than a year. We have presented concrete projects to improve the quality of education, inclusion, language learning and the structure of the system. We negotiate without rest and hold the last on the table. Regrettably, this time it was the PSOE who flew any possibility.It must be remembered that the previous time had been the People's Party. [[several ladies and gentlemen: Oh!]] Let's hope that next time, when we rule, the third one is over and we can get it. [[Applauds]] Not for us, but because it's what our children deserve. This is my last parliamentary intervention, and after the experience of all these years I want to make one thing very clear: the educational pact cannot be at any price; pact sectarianism, pact mediocrity, pacting looking to the past is even worse than not pacting. In this legislature I believe that in Citizens we have done something fundamental and I am very proud: we have done a work of containment of doctrinal nationalism and we have put on the agenda issues that nobody had ever dared to put on the table and that were affecting many people. We have said that our children have been used as a currency of exchange, that State functions have been abandoned and that linguistic manipulation is taking place in education. There have been many questions and propositions that I have prepared and in which I have shown the whole of the Spaniards the farce that has existed for years between nationalism and bipartisanism in this country. It was in the Commission that the subject of indoctrination of textbooks was skipped - in a very prepared way - so when we saw that the High Inspectorate of Education was not developing the functions it had to perform, we brought a law that we were rejected in this plenary. When we were told that the State could do nothing to improve the education of our children, we said that it was a lie, that the competences are not transferred, that the competences are shared and that we cannot look elsewhere or give up this responsibility. [[Applauds]] Today is the last day and the People's Party brings us here a non-law proposal that presents a model that could be its electoral program. Of course we have amended you because it is true that we agree with you in many things, in quality, we also agree with you in the defence of freedom, but for us it is also very important to defend equity. I assumed that with the defence of equity at some point I could have coincided with the Socialist Party; if I had not used education again as a currency of change, we would certainly have also reached great agreements. Ladies and gentlemen, the difference between bipartisanism, which has led to the chaos in the education system in which it is, and we have not passed, we have not been accomplices to everything that has been done here for thirty years, which has led to the situation in which we are. [[Applauds]] We have not given in to powers, nor have we left functions, nor have we kept reports under a drawer. The difference with other populist forces that now come with easy slogans is precisely the opposite, because we have passed, we have a history, we have demonstrated in this legislature and in this House that we can govern, that we are governing. This week the second bill, the second commitment we had in Andalusia, has already been introduced. We are now going to discuss the subject of faculty authority, we have already put forward programmes of educational reinforcement in English and mathematics and more that we are going to present. We have serious proposals, we have achievable proposals and we are ready to move forward and work to ensure that our education system is a system of the future. If the People's Party and the Socialist Party - if it comes back to being - or any other force wants to join, we will be delighted. I end by thanking all my colleagues, all the spokespersons of the Education Committee with whom I have spent so many hours, the technicians, the people of the House and, above all, thanking the citizens who have given me the honour of being able to serve them from here. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u97	Mrs Sorlí Fresquet spoke at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u98	Thank you, Madam President. I have told you before, and I repeat it to both Citizens and the People's Party: get your campaign out of the classroom, please! If you respect education, leave it alone. They used to tell us about the underfunding of the concert and now they're telling us about freedom of education. Well, look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, freedom to teach is to stop chasing teachers and to stop making lists of good teachers and bad teachers. Freedom of education is to stop pursuing co-education. Freedom of education is for boys and girls to see in their classrooms the reflection of society, people of different cultures, to see tolerance, to respect gender identity and expression, and that there are boys and girls in the same classroom, because that is society. Freedom of education is that all children can reach the classroom with free textbooks. Freedom of education is to ensure attention to special needs by lowering ratios in classrooms. Freedom of teaching is to respect the co-official languages and not make a ranking of good languages and bad languages, let us also speak our language. Freedom of education is to consider education a right and not a business. Freedom of education is for teachers to have a stable contract that is reversed in the education they give to boys and girls. Freedom of education is to create critical people. Freedom of education is to be able to study at university, regardless of your economic situation. That is really quality education and freedom of education, ensuring well-funded public education. All else is to use education to provoke and confront. And the only dangerous nationalism that we constantly have to attend in this plenary is precisely the one that tries to cover with the Spanish flag the economic cuts in education, that is really dangerous nationalism, because between Spain goes well from Aznar and Spain breaks from Citizens there is a huge flag that the only thing that tries to do is to stifle the educational rights of the population. So I've told you before: if you minimally respect the education system, what you have to do is leave it alone and get your election campaign out of the classroom.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u99	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u100	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I am going to vote against my formation to this initiative that your ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party are presenting and we are doing so for various reasons which I am sure will ring a bell because I have repeated them almost every week, and this week that we are holding this last plenary session could not stop repeating them. You talk about freedom of education, you talk about freedom of choice, you even talk about rights under the Constitution relating to children, young people and parents. In fact, all these rights, those of freedom of choice and of education and the constitutional ones, we share them and have told you many times, but you often forget some things that are also contained in the Constitution, for example, that there are governments, such as the Generalitat de Catalunya, that have competences in the field of education that are not respected and that are systematically interfered with by the current Government and by the previous Government. And you forget that there was an attempt at a state pact that failed not because of the independenceist groups in this House, but because of the two large groups in this House, which are the People's Party and the Socialist Party. Developing a report on what is needed in this patch-based country does not seem to us to be a good solution. What do we think is a good solution? We have told you many times: the consensus generated in the Parliament of Catalonia around the educational law of Catalonia. That's a way, a consensus where all the groups in the House participated, minus one, yours, but the rest of the groups agreed to generate an educational law in favor of teaching in Catalonia. And this law is contained not only in the statute, but in the Constitution and approved in the Parliament of Catalonia. That is what you ladies and gentlemen should refer to, and what you should be inspired by if you want to give real solutions and not put patches and make politics with education. As I have already said, we cannot agree on this text. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u102	Thank you very much, Madam President. The first feeling I had when I read the proposal of the People's Party was perplexity, because in the explanatory statement they expressly mention the announcement of the call for elections on 28 April and, at the same time, the smallum says: to urge the Government of Spain to draw up a law of educational reform before dialogue and pact. The truth, as much electoral propaganda is that of these gentlemen approving in the Council of Ministers the amendment of the Lomce as that of you with this. On the same page they say that this is going to end and on the next page they urge the Government to submit. Presenting what? If you're going to dissolve and you recognize it yourself. Amazing. Anyway, we're already in the final minutes and you can see. One reads the things you ask the government and says: a flexible and innovative model, adapted to the challenges and demands of a constantly evolving world, a model that acts on each student to develop all his or her abilities, a model that places the teacher at the centre of the education system, a model that gives greater pedagogical and organizational autonomy to the centers with new management models. And I say, listen, and why haven't you guys done this before? Because if they say that this is not being done and the law that is in force is their law and in the first part of this legislature, until eight months ago, was their government, why the hell have they not done so and are now asking the socialist government to submit a bill in this regard? That's what they're doing here. Of course, then comes the other part, which says: a strengthening of the exercise of the powers of the State, a strengthening of the high inspection - one no longer knows exactly what role they want to give to the high inspection, as if it were a kind of autonomous supercommunity or responsible superauthority of the autonomous communities -, common training in a basic curriculum, when they know that there is a very large percentage of the basic curriculum that reaches up to 65% in some cases and that the law has been expanding more and more. Then, I am not surprised that the representative of Citizens also says, as she said, that transfers of education are shared. Ah! Is there no exclusive competence? The Statute of Basque Autonomy, within the exclusive competence, says: in application of the provisions of the first additional provision of the Constitution - to be noted, our case is also special, the first additional provision of the Constitution - it is within the competence of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country to teach in all its extent, levels and degrees, modalities and specialties. Of course, it is our competence and we have had it for a long time and that you want to cut it is not to follow the model of the Constitution. Therefore, obviously not, because you contradict yourselves; not, because even in the policies you are proposing you are recognizing that there are things in the Lomce that should be changed, and not, because what you want is to centralize and recover some competences that are from the autonomous communities. [[Mrs. Martín Llaguno makes negative gestures with her hand]] Do not do this to me, because yes, yes, yes; and the Basque Autonomous Community the first. Then, between PSOE and PP extended education and health, because it occurred to them, to the rest of the autonomous communities. I do not know what you are going to do in the next parliamentary term, if you can, by withdrawing the powers of other autonomous communities, but of course those of the Basque Country or touch them, among other things, because they are protected by the first additional provision of the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u103	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u104	Members, Members, President, I could say that what was worth for the previous speech is worth this one, but, Mrs Moneo, it gives me the opportunity to continue talking about education and I cannot reject it. You know how much I appreciate it and, by the way, Mrs Martín, that you have many successes in the future. If we talk about education, Mrs Moneo, you know my opinion and that of my party and I do not fully recognize yours in this proposal, because the truth is that there were proposals that could be coincidental. In what way? Next. The central theme must be the quality of the system and how to ensure inclusion and equity, beyond being public or concerted centres. These are his words that I share and this is the center of the system and not other things. In the twenty-first century we must look at the future and present of our children, of all, speak the language they speak in their home, of all. The success of this system is built on the educational success of each student without forgetting anyone, any student with high abilities or any student with special educational needs. Diversity is a constituent element of society. Yes, we are a diverse society. Some of us speak in Catalan, others in Spanish, others in Basque, others in Galician. We're different. Let's see if you understand! My Cid is buried and you don't have to take him out on a horse advertising spot. You don't have to. The reality is different. [[Applauds]] Don't be obsessed with this. Education is sharing, it's listening, it's talking and not pontificating. Research and the same teaching experience have clearly established that the coexistence of this diversity in the same educational space is a factor that allows the overall improvement of success, provided that we use appropriate methodologies and have the necessary resources at our disposal. That is why we are talking about balanced schooling so that planning ensures territorial balance, equity and social cohesion. This is it. It is necessary, whether public or concerted, to ensure an adequate and balanced distribution of pupils with specific educational needs; to facilitate the integration of the newly arrived population; and to take into account the right of families to choose the type of training they wish for their children. This is compatible, we are doing it in the Education Act, and it is improveable. This is the way, not the past. Don't you ever get in the way again. Move along, please. A little moderation would do us all good. In many centres and municipalities there are very good practices, and they must be extended to the whole system. The participation of Esquerra Republicana these three years in the educational debate and in the future law - if it comes out - is based on the commitment to equity, cohesion, inclusion; it is based on avoiding imbalances, segregation, and is based on respect for the diversity and plurality of projects and stability. In that they will find us, and this is possible. I ask you, Mrs Moneo, to leave these strange traveling companions, because these may break Spain, and break the face of some of the Spaniards. So this is not good. It is necessary that Spain does not freeze our hearts, it was said; that it governs and governs for all; that this precept be fulfilled. Rafael Alberti, in the first two stanzas of his Madrid Defense Romance, said: 'Madrid, the heart of Spain, / latte with fever pulses. / If yesterday the blood boiled, / today it boils more hot. / You will never be able to sleep again, / because if Madrid sleeps, / you will want to wake up one day / and the dawn will not come to see you. It's been 40 years, it's been 40 years. They won't happen! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u105	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Farré Fidalgo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u106	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to reiterate my support for Jordi Cuixart and Carme Forcadell, who have declared today, as well as for the other political and exiled prisoners and prisoners, who should be at home. [[Applauds]] Secondly, I would like the People's Parliamentary Group to transfer to Mr Juncal - I think he is not - that we have a very rich saying and that we do not need to use the most macho and deplorable examples we have in him. I'd appreciate it if you could move it. [[Applauds]] I'm already focusing on the motion. Although the reform of the PSOE seems to us to be insufficient and needs concrete action in many areas to ensure a public model to deal with issues such as interim teachers, vocational training or education from 0 to 3 years, we do not at all share the motion presented today by the PP. I remind the PP that it has an educational reform, another, as every time there is an electoral period, and that it calls for a prior dialogue and pact with the rest of the forces and the educational community. This is exactly what was not done with Lomce, which was adopted in 2012 alone, imposed and without any consensus. We are committed to working to achieve an education with sufficient resources, to fight segregation, to promote equity and inclusion, and to promote and protect a public school, free of charge, secular and of quality. This is not the objective of the PP, and it is noted because when reading your motion, it gives the feeling that the problem is that you do not trust, and not only your own, also that of Citizens, as we are seeing. Do not trust to give the same opportunities to any student, because this would endanger your elite model of society. And since you don't trust, because you don't want a fairer and fairer society, you choose a model that favors the private, a model where you only have the right to decide the education of your children who have money to pay for it. Nor does it seem that you believe in the teaching community, because you constantly call on the educational inspection as if it did not exist or not act, when it exists and acts, or as if the social improvements in general came through control or sanctions, rather than through debate, struggle or collective work. You also don't have to rely on public school because you would have prioritized it in your funding, instead of continuing with the cutback policy, which reduced investment in education to 3.8, well below the OECD average and the spending needed to ensure public education for all. As far as you don't trust, you don't seem to believe in anything that sounds different either. That is why you must bet on an educational model that is clearly ideological and refocusing and, therefore, you are not able to value plurality and see it always as something positive and not as a threat, or you are not able to understand it as something that is normal, everyday and enriching. The shocking thing is that you are never heard of criticizing, for example, linguistic immersion in French, English or German; when it is in elite schools there is no problem. Instead, when we talk about linguistic immersion in Catalan it becomes an attack on your freedom. There's a very strange double standard of understanding. I think if you talk to any language expert, he will tell you two things, the sooner you learn a second language better to learn the third and fourth. And the other is that stable bilingualism does not exist, we already know, but absolutely nothing happens because it can be maintained in time. But to maintain it over time we need linguistic normalization policies; and for this we need to make policies that favour the minority language; and the minority language in Catalonia is Catalan, because it has fewer speakers, because it is recognized as an official language in fewer states, because it is still impossible to live fully in Catalan. I'll give you an example: once I met a girl who spoke Catalan but not Spanish. It was a strange case; she was an American who came from exchange, and she was shocked because she couldn't buy basic products, food or medicine at a supermarket, because they weren't in Catalan, so she had to learn Spanish in a few months. This is not a problem because, in the end, they are Romanic languages, they are very similar and if you know one it is very easy to learn the other. In fact, the problems are not so serious; you make them serious. These fears and this distrust that always leads you to ask for more re-centralisation, more inspection, more private, and to attack all kinds of linguistic diversity or diversity itself, are overcome by knowing what scares us. I would encourage you to know the public school or to know and value the linguistic diversity of the Iberian Peninsula, especially I would encourage you to learn, for example, Basque, which is an absolutely different language. That is why it is important, but it is also one of the three languages that exist throughout the world that is unique and cannot be associated with any other language family. This should only push us to want to keep it, to make it visible, not to make it a problem that we have different languages around the State. We encourage you to do this, and to ensure that education is fairer, more equitable, and less segregative, you add up to bet on prioritizing your resources. From here, we end up recognizing the immense work that the teachers of the public have done, that they have left their skins these years to overcome your cuts and your contempt. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u107	Thank you very much. The Socialist Group has the floor, Mr Meijón Couselo.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u108	Thank you, President. Mrs Martin, you are right in one thing: the Socialists do not agree to education at any price, of course not. Mrs. Moneo, we've met. They present today a truffle motion of false mantras, plagued with inaccuracies, with layers and layers of makeup; but despite all this they fail to conceal their intentions or the actions of their recent past. They tell us: Strengthening the exercise of the powers of the State that the Constitution assigns to - and they emphasize - co-hesion. But what they really want is to shield the Wert model, to standardize, to refocus, or, if you prefer, to Spanishize. They demand a common basic curriculum. There's always been, Mrs. Moneo, you know perfectly well, do I have to remind you? 65% if there is no co-official language, and 55% if you have it. They claim to defend public education, but how curious, they ask the administrations to promote centres of social initiative - the famous social demand of the Lomce - but with one more twist, no longer to force the State to concert, but to promote private centers concerted by the State itself. The mantra of freedom of choice could not be lacking. But in this country, Mrs Moneo, there has always been freedom of choice of centre, before and now. There's only one problem, when there's more requests than squares have the center. To solve this, we use criteria that you know well: number of siblings, distance from home, vulnerability of families, etc.; and by laughing at the rice, Mrs Moneo, that illegal quotas are deductible in private concerted centres. The €840 per month paid in some concerted centre - see the Ceapa report -, €840 per month, much more than the minimum wage set by his Government. Freedom of choice, for whom? Is that what they call student selection, Mrs. Moneo? [[Applauds]] This is called student selection by the centers. This is segregation by economic imperative. Is that your model of equity, freedom of choice for those who can pay 840 euros a month in concerted centres? Another point is to ensure specialized education centres. Mrs Moneo, the minister herself has told you as active and passive, in the Commission and in plenary, in public and in private, that the commitment to inclusive education does not in any way imply the closure of the centres, but you prefer to continue with the fake news, so I will have to think that you are the authors of those fake news. [[Applauds]] As you will understand, it seems to me laughable that you claim a model of census and external assessments, you, who imposed the invalids as a method of segregation and barriers, the same ones that you removed because of ineffective and discriminatory Villar Palasí, Franco Minister and, as I told Wert, for you Villar el Rojo. Of course there will be assessments of the system - they went to LOE and go to the new bill - but diagnostic assessments not to make rankings, but to put resources. In your motion you ask for a curriculum that forms in digital skills; you, who paralyzed the programs of territorial cooperation, also that of School 2.0; a curriculum that strengthens the humanities; you, who practically expelled the philosophy of the system and relegated education into values as an optional subject. [[Applauds]] Man, a little please. And no, Mrs Moneo, the Castilian does not risk danger in Spain, and we do want a student who achieves a good level of competence in both Castilian and its autonomous language, by the way, also in foreign languages. They also call for a new management model. What, the one that removes powers from the collegiate bodies? The one who evicts the educational community from management, how did they translate into Lomce? They demand a model that places the teacher at the centre of the education system, and the first thing they do in Andalusia is to cut more than 1000 teachers, in addition to the thousands you have already cut. [[Applauds]] And don't miss it, they also defend a model that acts on the student to develop all his abilities, but eliminated the reinforcement programs in the fourth of the ESO, cut staff and educational resources. That's right, they designed very effective routes of segregation without walkways, without reengagement formulas with the educational system. From the personal respect you know that I profess you, Mrs Moneo, we cannot consent to the face washing that you intend to do with this motion; you are not entitled to come now to teach us about what you did not do when you were able to do, nor to continue to disguise your true intentions with artifices of language. For the defense of our public education system, a rotundo not to his motion. [[Applauds]] And now allow me - I conclude, Madam President - not to say goodbye to any of you because I hope to see all your ladies and gentlemen walking through Pontevedra and come and greet me. Thank you very much. [[Laughter.- Prolonged applause of the Socialist Members of the Parliamentary Group, put to the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u109	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Moneo Díez whether her group accepts the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u110	President, we're going to deal with a text.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u111	Thank you very much. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE NEGOTIATIONS OF THE Vice-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTER OF PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND EQUALITY WITH CATALAN INDEPENDENTITY. [[File number 173/000136]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u112	We continue with the motion resulting from an urgent call by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the negotiations of the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Equality with Catalan independence. For the group responsible for the initiative, Mr Girauta Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, what things do you have to hear here? There is a nationalist spokesman who has put in the mouth of the representatives of Citizens that Catalan is a terrible thing. When did we say Catalan is a terrible thing? Who do you want to cheat on? How dare you say that, to this party born in Catalonia, with Catalan speakers? How dare you say we're going to say something like that? Really, there's dirty game, disgusting game, and then there's Catalan nationalism. [[Mr. Vice-President, Prendes Prendes, takes the Chair.]] The key to the problem of negotiating the Vice-President and the Government in general with the separatists described is basically concealment. They may have done so for fear of their partners, for the ambition of wanting to endure a few more months in the helicopter; it doesn't matter the motivation. The point is that they have hidden that they have agreed to negotiate the twenty-one points of shame. [[Mrs. Cantera de Castro: Lie!]] Yeah, yeah. They agreed to negotiate the twenty-one points of shame. [[Several Members: No! No! No!]] Yes, yes, they agreed to negotiate the twenty-one points of shame.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u114	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u115	They agreed to negotiate the twenty-one points of shame. A full president, when given a document like that, returns it to the person who gives it to him, man! [[Applauds]] It had to be filtered by the separatists to pressure them, and they knew very well what they were doing. If they didn't join them, these things wouldn't happen to them. We've caught them and you've gone undercover. President Sánchez arrived in Moncloa deceiving the Spaniards, with the promise that he would call elections; and he left eight months later trying to deceive us again, pretending to break with the separatists while continuing with the bilateral meetings under string. [[Applauds]] Sanchez has made lies a form of political survival. His resistance manual is a survival manual at the expense of anything, and his verb... forgive me, I'd ask for a little respect, I don't know... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u116	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u117	If you don't get it for me... This noise is a little heavy.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u118	Mr. Girauta, continue. Please do not interrupt the speaker.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u119	They seem Catalan nationalists, they have taken the same forms as them. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Some of them are there, too. [[pointing to the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] Nationalism is a poison that has plagued Spain during part of its history, has conditioned the lives of the Spanish in an unbearable way, and some of us are fed up - fed up - that the richest communities are the ones that protest the most; that the most protest are the ones that receive the most; that the separatists come to give moral lessons to the rest. The People's Party and the Socialist Party have allowed - and many evils come from it - to do what they want for many years, to camp out to their breadth; so much so that the role of educating us and formulating our constant morals on what is legitimacy and legality, what is the democratic principle and the rule of law, what is democracy or not democracy, what are fascists or not fascists. Do you want fascists? Look in the mirror, man, and you'll see fascists! [[Applauds]] Nationalism has never been humble and Catalan is no exception; it has been clothed with a certain intellectual air that sometimes provokes me to the carcase, as in the case of the spokesman to whom I referred earlier, who presents himself as an education specialist and who says: There are no good languages and bad languages. Hey! That's what I'm telling you, you've got the Castilian postponed to Catalan school! Portergado! [[Applauds]] That's the dive. At least admit it, admit it because everyone knows it. You are celebrating that of the mother tongue of Unesco, forgetting that the mother tongue in most Catalans is the Castilian. What do you have to celebrate? You have been postponed as a vehicle language and as a language of culture the language of 600 million people on the planet. [[Applauds]] You have to be really obtuse, you have to be what Americans call narrow-minded, to believe that depriving them of the vehicular language, of Spanish, will make them better or more cults or more competitive. What's that got to do with anything? You are binary, you conceive things like this: Catalan, good; Castilian, bad. [[Rumors]] Yeah, yeah, sure. His flag, the stellate, good and, the Spanish, bad. Do you not realize that your binary condition, your reductionism, your commitment to lead Catalonia to yes or has not broken Catalan society? Haven't you noticed? [[A Member delivers words that are not perceived]] Yes, sir, you have broken Catalan society. Yes, and among other things this Catalan, son of Catalan teacher, becomes Toledo not for reasons of party or electoral; it becomes Toledo because I can't anymore with you; you have ended the patience of the constitutionalist Catalonia. I don't even want to see them in paint. I'll see you here. But born in Barcelona and with fifty-seven years lived in Barcelona, I tell you that your insistence on separating and breaking Catalan society is a tragedy, because some of us can leave and we will remain connected to the issue because here we represent the whole of the Spanish people, but there are others who have to shut up to keep their jobs, there are others who keep quiet because they do not have enough moral strength to overcome the ideological political hegemony that you impose. You and the schools. - I don't know where the spokesman, the teacher Ciruela, who didn't know how to read and went to school; he'll be there, he'll have hidden himself. Do you know what Catalan school is? They've taken it with its stellates and its yellow ties. That's an ideological school and coming here to say that you don't indoctrinate in Catalan school is to take all your lordships for fools You have no right to take us for fools or lie to us. [[Applauds]] Tell the truth! Say they have the Spanish discriminated at school! Say it! They've been doing a monstrous social engineering operation for decades and here they have their accomplices! Tell the truth! Nothing more, gentlemen. [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, stood up.-Protests.-Mrs Cantera de Castro: That's all right!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Girauta. As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. Mr Xuclà i Costa has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. [[Rumors continue.-Mr. Girauta Vidal utters words that are not perceived]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u121	Mr. Rivera. I'm sorry, Mr. Girauta. It's just that they're clonic. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u122	Wait a minute, Mr. Xuclà. Mr Girauta, please do not enter into debates once you have left the rostrum. You have the floor, Mr Xuclà.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u123	Mr Girauta, I will not give you pleasure; the pleasure you will give to the citizens of Toledo who will have to endure it and perhaps vote, or not, with their blacks, with their complicity. [[laughs]] You're a cosmic, cosmic complex; a remarkable lerouxist; I don't know if you have the level to compare it to Leroux, but a very remarkable lerouxist. And the only thing that worries me about your intervention, because the other thing is the bad thing, is to confuse a Parliament with a pre-election promotion plate for its potential voters in Toledo, which is something you have said and which is very dangerous. You said you're sick of us, of me and you don't want to see me even in paint. [[Rumors]] What's your plan for me? The final solution? You want to annihilate me? [[Señor Cantó García del Moral: Buah!]] I represent citizens, Mr. Girauta.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u124	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u125	I'm a democratic representative, I represent... [[A Member of Parliament: And me!]] You too, but you just told me you're sick of me in a Parliament. You mean you want to cancel the 500 000 votes represented by my political formation? You don't want to erase me, you want to erase half a million citizens? What did you think? [[Rumors.-Mr. Girauta Vidal utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u126	Mr Girauta, please respect the speaker's speaking time.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u127	I respect half a million citizens, I respect democracy, Mr Girauta. And from here on out, you've come to dump your pathological neurological condition-- sorry, I erase the neurological condition. You've called us, binaries, complexed...; and you tell us: We've caught them talking and making a deal with the PSOE. That for many years there are pacts in this Parliament to prevent psychological pictures like yours from intervening in the governance of Spain. That for many years it's far away. [[Protests]] Nationalism has been... [[Mr Girauta Vidal asks for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u128	Mr. Girauta, just a moment.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u129	I've got two and a half minutes left. I just find that you have an unrepressed and worrying impulse to want to erase: that you do not want to see democratic representatives of citizens in painting. The way to solve problems democratically is through permanent dialogue. Let the voters of Toledo take note and let them take note, please, of the citizens who came to swallow that Citizens was a moderate center party. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u131	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As this topic is more than spoken, debated and dealt with and as it is not my custom to respond to the rallies, I will try to be brief, explain things in a pildorita and end quickly. Therefore, my summary is this: at point number one, no, and at point number two, neither. Thank you very much. [[Laughs.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. Mr Rufián Romero has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. I beg your silence; ladies and gentlemen, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u133	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Girauta, Juan Carlos, I'm going to allow myself to tutor you. You and I have discussed outside of here, we have discussed well; I respect you intellectually and even appreciate you and I ask you, sincerely, what need is there for this? What's the need for this? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u134	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u135	I am absolutely convinced, after three years here with you, with you, that Citizens is not only this. You will have to choose what you want to be in the next legislature, with Vox; you will have to choose what you want to be and, if you want to compete with them; my suggestion and my opinion is that you are wrong. With speeches like this, with all the respect of the world, Juan Carlos, I think you're wrong. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] I've seen you do positive things in this Congress, and I say so. I have seen Marcial Gómez, your colleague, this morning voting with us, with Podemos, with Bildu and with Esquerra, in favour of decent conclusions in the Committee of Inquiry into the illegal financing of the PP and, by the way, PSOE and the People's Party have agreed to close it. [[Mr. Rallo Lombarte: Lie!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u136	Mr. Rallo, I beg you to remain silent. [[Mr. Rallo Lombarte pronounces words that are not perceived]] I beg you to remain silent!
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u137	I've seen...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u138	Wait a minute, Mr. Rufián. Mr Rallo, you are not taking part in the debate, so please respect the speaker's word. Go on, Mr. Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u139	I have seen Fernando Navarro and Miguel Ángel Garaulet, his colleagues, on the Commission of Inquiry into the Alvia accident doing a great job, a very decent job, a great job. We can understand each other, we must understand each other and speeches like this, and I say, they don't help. [[Laughter]] The PSOE is falling apart, I don't know... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u140	Mr. Rufián, just a moment.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u141	It is because they have just closed the People's Party Commission of Inquiry. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u142	Wait a minute, Mr. Rufián. Please, all of you, calm down and respect the speaker's word. Also with laughter, respect is lacking. Please, I ask you to maintain respect for the person who is speaking, who is at this time exclusively Mr. Rufián. Go on, Mr. Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u143	These people who laugh today, who laugh right now, what they would love is for us here, now, to start stabbing each other dialectically. [[pointing out the banks of the popular and socialist parliamentary groups]] [[Protests.-A lady MP: Hala!]] [[Rumors]] All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u144	Silence! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u145	There are things you can't accept and I'm convinced that you, Juan Carlos, don't think about them. I am thirty-seven years old, and if it were true that the Castilian is persecuted and threatened in Catalonia I could not speak it as I speak, which I think it does not cost me much. But also to say that the Spanish is persecuted in a country that had a Cordoba president named José Montilla, to much honor, is absurd, it is an insult to intelligence. To say that the Castilian is persecuted and threatened in a country that has, to a great honor, a leader of the Jerezian opposition called Inés Arrimadas, is an insult, from my point of view, to intelligence. In the end, let's get as we go, or we'll talk or we'll punctuate. We have to stop denying each other. Let's get on with it, or we all talk - the self-determinationists, the independenceists, the federalists, the confederalists, the unionists, the mid-pensionists - or we stop denying it, or what? With threats, with 155, with absolutely indecent speeches, with cowardice, we will not advance. Either we stop making monologues and speeches like this or, from my point of view, we will not move forward because for monologues we already have Broncano and Buenafuente. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. Mr Mena Arca has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u147	Thank you, President. To me, Mr. Girauta, the first question that arises today is: what fault will Toledo have? [[Laughter]] What fault will Toledo have for you to make, let me tell you, here today an out of place intervention, an intervention that is not up to what a House like this requires. Frankly, I will tell you - probably the first time this has happened - that it has been very difficult for me to take this motion seriously, the result of Mr Girauta's intervention, presented today by Citizens. It's going to happen to you as in The Milky Way, a lot to warn you that the wolf is coming and when the wolf comes in the end no one is going to take you seriously. You're already on that path. But since this is the last plenary session, we are going to take this motion as it is, a declaration of intentions of the Citizens' election program, nothing worrying. Your election program is worth very little, today they say one thing, tomorrow they propose the opposite and the past end up with the PSOE, with the PP or even with Vox; it depends on how Mr. Rivera gets up that morning, on the street in the middle. And it is that your party, Citizens, today has one of the worst crises of credibility that I have seen in democracy, are the party of not investing Rajoy, the party of democratic regeneration that has a candidate for mayor of Madrid who hid a society with more than 2 million euros to make reforms at home and now the party that presents in Barcelona a candidate, Mrs Arrimadas, who only three weeks ago said in prime time television that its goal was to be president of the Generalitat of Catalonia and by art of magic stands behind Mr Rivera to occupy a seat in this Congress. Where are those times when you said how brave it was to stay in Catalonia to fight separatism? Where were your arguments from the Parliament, when they told people that their priority was to defend Catalan institutions? For in a matter of days it seems that these same Catalan institutions are no longer so important, but rather a hindrance to the political ambitions of Mrs Arrimadas and Mr Rivera here in Madrid. And worst of all, you are asking in this motion to deny the dialogue with the Catalan institutions, which I want to remind you that you are neither Mr Torra nor you, you are of all Catalans and of all Catalans. I will tell you clearly, if politics does not serve us to solve the problems by dialogue, it is that it serves nothing, and you begin to serve nothing in the Chambers in which you are presented. [[Applauds]] This is not what I say, it is demonstrated by the balance sheet with which the leader of Catalonia's opposition will come here, a completely blank balance sheet resulting from her inability to reach agreements. They have been blocking force in the Parliament of Catalonia and they are presenting themselves to the elections clearly saying that their aspiration is to come and block here too, and in that, what they want me to say, they end up doing the same as what you accuse Mr. Torra of: breaking the bridges of dialogue and using the money and institutions of all Catalans for their campaign acts, because if not, tell us - Mr. Girauta not, because he has gone - who has paid Mrs. Arrimadas' trip to Waterloo with a few public offices to go and tell Mr. Puigdemont something as obvious as that the republic does not exist. [[Mr. Álvarez Palleiro: The Party!]] Where do you come from, Mr de Ciudadanos, the more than EUR 15 000 that cost us Catalans and Catalans the last occurrence of Mrs Arrimadas? Well, of public money, of everyone's money, and I have to tell you that, seeing the result, you've made the most ridiculous of history. That is the only thing that has served Citizens so far in the Parliament of Catalonia. [[Applauds]] In short, Lords of Citizens, this is the spirit of this motion and it is also the essence of Citizens. You present a balance sheet that is summed up in nothingness and offer us by April 28th to impose that, two cups of nothing. That is the proposal of Citizens, they have done nothing and propose for April 28 two cups of the same nothing. Faced with that - I finish, president - in Comú Puermos we not only defend that alliances and dialogue are the greatest tool we have to improve people's lives, but that we are the only capable and courageous guarantee of change that will make it possible. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u148	Thank you, Mr. Mena. For the Socialist Group, Mr Zaragoza Alonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u149	Mr Girauta, Toledo is not the exile, it is Spain, just like Barcelona. [[Applauds]] Today you have affirmed in the Chain Being that you were exiled, is what happens when you don't have the clear things, that end up manifesting in Waterloo. Be careful, do not find your substitute, Mrs. Arrimadas, also manifesting in Toledo. I'm surprised you didn't bring ABC covers today, which for you is a source of authority, maybe you haven't given them time to read it today, so I already do it for you, in case you want to act accordingly, unless you're from the school of: selling tips that I don't have for myself. Leo: a notarial document proves that Villacis falsified his cessation in society. Another: Villacis negotiated with Vox to join his ranks. So we understand, not only do they convene demonstrations together but they share candidates, although not only with Vox, it seems that also with the PP, although they do not share their values, as his deputy Mr Igea says. [[applause]] To cover all these shames you need to get involved in flags as the independenceists do, you need a flag as big as Columbus to cover the heritage societies of Begoña Villacis, you need a flag as big as Columbus. They make a pointless visit to Puigdemont to cover up the scandal of Jusapol and Villacis, on the run, lords of Citizens. First they went to the Plaza de Oriente to say that Vox is a constitutionalist party and then they go to Waterloo to say that Waterloo does not exist. They make you think. Lords of Citizens, you have aged very quickly and very badly. They arrived as if they were a renewing force and have turned out to be the right hand of ever or perhaps worse. You, Mr Girauta, represent a party which was born against Catalan nationalism but which has never managed to pass from that. Moreover, along the way they have been transformed into another reactive nationalism to the independenceist, of opposite sign but similar in form and in substance. That is why it is understandable that they react with panic to a possible solution to the conflict in Catalonia, they know that without the conflict their total and absolute lack of proposals to improve the lives of the Spaniards will be exposed. And as you live from conflict and confrontation, you encourage it, we have seen it; you encourage it, you feel good in conflict and confrontation! What is Mrs. Arrimadas doing visiting a fugitive from justice? When everyone begins to forget Mr. Puigdemont goes Mrs. Arrimadas to resurrect him. Do you need it so much in this campaign? Do you see so badly in this campaign that you need to resurrect Puigdemont? Are they not able to propose anything? That Mrs. Arrimadas won the elections to the Parliament of Catalonia and has had no initiative since that day! [[Applauds]] Where any Catalan is looking for a solution, you won't find Citizens or Mrs. Arrimadas nearby. All she's ever thought about is going to Waterloo to say goodbye to someone who's run away from justice. I congratulate you, a million votes to make a mockery of independence! Even Mrs Artadi congratulated them for recognizing the authority of Puigdemont! Don't you realize they've made a fool of themselves? [[Applauds]] Citizens, acknowledge that you do not want or know how to end the territorial conflict posed by independence. Your bet has made it clear to Mr. Rivera: you want to come to power with the sum of Vox and Mr. Married, you have never had another plan other than that, your only plan! In the end you've taken off the face, you don't like that from the center because you're the right of the day. They were ashamed to be so, and the nationalist conflict has allowed them to hide, but now it is, out of face! Make it clear: Inés Arrimadas leaves Catalonia to negotiate with Vox in Spain. This is what you propose and this is what you propose. You want the space on the right and for that you have to copy to the right. It was not enough for them to have put up with the PP of the Gürtel in power that they now file with characters like Silvia Clemente to present themselves with their acronyms! And you were on regenerators? I guess that's why they also agreed with Fernandez Teixidó's old Pujolist Convergence. Didn't you know? Well, yes, they did. Is that citizens' growth strategy? To give everyone who has failed in the neighboring party? You are like Esquerra Republicana, specialists in recycling the discards of the parties that have so much criticized. They are a volatile game, one day they are centered and the next day partners of the far right. In short, I have no longer referred to your motion because it lacks interest and you lack credibility. I won't make Rajoy president, and Rivera made him president. We won't agree with Vox, and Citizens have agreed with Vox. I want to be president of Catalonia, and Arrimadas flees to Madrid. Proper lies, ladies and gentlemen. What a short time it has been for you to just see Spaniards! Now you see good and bad Spaniards! It seems to you that Abascal is a good Spaniard and everyone who confronts him is not. Gentlemen of Citizens, your myopia will make history. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u150	Thank you very much, Mr Zaragoza. Mr Roca Mas has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u151	Puigdemont and his press have taken out the chest and defined it as ingenious to disinfect where they have stepped non-nationalist deputies for being Spanish. Ask in Europe if it's radical someone who deals with people who try to get infected with other human beings. Is there anyone more radical in Europe than Pedro Sánchez? Quim Torra - who, by the way, called the 15-M indignant coupists - has written hundreds of articles about the Spaniards. Ask in Europe if someone who deals with calling other humans 'infrahuman beasts with a patch in the DNA' is radical. Is there anyone more radical in Europe than Pedro Sánchez? Neither extreme right nor extreme left, extreme immorality. [[Applauds]] Pedro Sánchez put on the patriot mask to support the restoration of a democracy in Catalonia with 155, but because he had a secret pact to exhume the tripartite in Catalonia and then in Spain. The tripartites that ruined us. It is Pedro Sánchez's insatiable obsession with power at any price. That stealthy pact, nostalgic of the Popular Front, failed because they did not know that among the supremacists also apply supremacism. And you will ask me: what political solution do we give to what 2 million people feel? A Democrat has an easy answer: it is not acceptable to appeal to a supposed democracy outside the law. The same answer as when 2 million people go out on the street to say that women are worth half as men. Will you offer a mediator when a majority of men in a neighborhood of Spain ask to establish shariary? Well, you guys are capable. And to those who will say it's not the same, to explain what difference there is between discriminating against women and Spaniards. Because those of the coup to democracy do not take us into account; in the supposed results they only counted them. They said: 90% of the 2 million. And the other 2 million we don't even count! We were eliminated from his soul as a political subject. The Catalan institutions have been handed over to those who killed Paco Cano and José Luis Ruiz Casado! Double murder, first the physicist and then the politician. With the Catalan Plan 2000 the totalitarian project of nationalism accumulates almost all power, except for a few fringes of the statue and little more. They just need to finish eliminating everything that Spain means in Catalonia. They want to drive us out, destroy us as a culture, as an identity, as a nation of free and equal. Can you be more radical than agreeing with someone who wants to expel half the population? Is there anyone more radical in Europe than Pedro Sánchez? [[Several Members of the People's Parliamentary Group: Nooo!]] Socialists of Spain, don't you give them any notice? Not even an apex of shame? Nothing? Have so much resentment instilled in them the cry of'mani facha' that they renounce to show a little humanity with non-nationalist Catalans? [[Several Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group: Nooo!- Mr Zaragoza Alonso speaks words that are not perceived]] [[Mr Zaragoza Alonso: They come to insult us!- Rumors.-Applause]] But let's see, does the conflict between nationalists and non-nationalists in Catalonia have a solution? Politics is the only solution because we have to live together. We non-nationalists have the right to be heard because we have been mistreated for forty years. Without us there will be no solution, so we demand preconditions: Torra and Puigdemont cannot be part of the solution because they are precisely the problem. [[Rumors]] We demand to abandon the anti-democratic climate imposed by nationalism; to be able to move around Catalonia in freedom and without violence; enough strikes promoted by the Generalitat; to regain the neutrality of public spaces; to end compulsory immersion and indoctrination in schools; neutrality and transparency of institutions; and to end the pedagogy of hatred and Hispanicophobia. In short, put an end to sectarianism. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u152	Wait a minute, Mr. Roca. I reiterate to you once again that it is only the speaker who is taking the floor. I ask you not to engage in cross-discussion between yourselves because it is disrespectful. There was a murmuring which prevented the speaker from listening and was not proceeding at the moment. I ask you not to repeat those cross-discussions that are not taking place at this time. Go on, Mr. Roca.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u153	We demand to abandon the anti-democratic climate imposed by nationalism; to put an end to sectarianism, discrimination, exclusion and violence. And third requirement, that Pedro Sánchez be disqualified from participating in the solution by secretly accepting the twenty-one points of Torra against Spain. The formula in which Pedro Sánchez could be part of a solution for Catalonia is composed of two and only two elements: stupidity and corruption, each of which will tell us what its proportion is. Only by fulfilling these requirements, these preconditions, can we begin to heal the rupture, with a new transition in Catalonia, is yes, for everyone. Before I finish and dismiss this legislature, from the rostrum I want to ask the rest of Spain two things: the first, that the plurality of Spain is in the autonomous communities, the General Courts cannot be kidnapped by nationalism. Spain must be governed in favour of itself; governability and stability. And the second, that the resentment of the nationalists against Spain is not fought with resentment against Catalonia and the Catalans. [[Applauds]] Facing one nationalism with another is the worst mistake we can make. An obsession occupies the People's Party, through which we made the transition, through which we are building the European Union: that our children do not do to each other what unfortunately our grandparents did. Visca Catalunya free of nationalism! Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u154	Thank you very much, Mr Roca. - the Confederal Group of the European United States of America (CGE), which can in common be seen in the light of the need to act urgently before the data of the world organization, which show how the last four years have been the warmest since the registrations and which confirm the enhancement of the climate change. [[File number 173/000137]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u155	We turn to the debate on the next item on the agenda, the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the need to act urgently before the data of the World Meteorological Organization, which show how the last four years have been the warmest since there are records and which confirm the worsening of climate change. For the author group of the initiative, Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u156	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the legislature is over, but climate change continues. [[Rumors]] I know that some of you do not care very much, because a non-legislative proposal from my parliamentary group has been discussed a while ago, in which many of the measures have been discussed... [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u157	Wait a minute, Mr. López de Uralde. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. It seems to me an absolute lack of respect that when the speaker starts his speech, you start cross-talking to compete to see who speaks louder, whether the speaker or you. I ask you, out of respect, if you have to hold an absolutely urgent conversation, to do so outside the Chamber. Go on, Mr. López de Uralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u158	I was saying that I already know that some of you are not very concerned about climate change. We have heard a while ago in response to my group's non-legislative proposal to Mr Juncal of the People's Parliamentary Group saying that Spain actually pollutes, but that it pollutes very little. You know that this is not what most Spaniards and Spanish people think. According to Ipsos surveys, Spanish is among the most concerned public opinion about the impacts of climate change, and it is logical because our country is particularly affected. We have said it over and over again in this rostrum and we will not tire of saying it: heat waves, forest fires, sea level rise, sea warming, etc. The impacts are brutal and especially serious on the Iberian peninsula and yet you tell us that we use climate change electorally. No, ladies and gentlemen, it's not like that. Climate change concerns us people who have been in our parliamentary group for a long time and we are increasingly concerned that impacts are getting worse. Fortunately, tens of thousands of young people are mobilizing around the world to demand action against this phenomenon, and they are doing so under the cry of 'No planet there is no future', because they are playing their future and for them it is a very serious problem. One of them gave me this shirt and asked me to bring it today, and I brought it for that. [[Shows your T-shirt in which you read: 'If there is no planet, there is no future']] I pay tribute to those boys and girls who are mobilizing around the world to address the problem of climate change. [[Applauds]] Science has been very clear and very strong about this and has told us that we have to cut emissions enormously by 2030, in a very short time. Last Wednesday we tabled a motion and from Wednesday to today something relevant has happened: the Government has presented an energy package including a preliminary draft climate change law and an integrated national energy and climate plan. I would summarise our reaction to this government proposal, which happens after we bring the motion, in two very short sentences: too little and too late. I have already told the minister that I do not understand that this package arrives when there is no longer any chance of dealing with it, because we have lost a legislature without having a climate change law. Therefore, as I say, the phenomenon of climate change continues, but this country still has no law. We did do our homework. Our parliamentary group recorded last June a proposal for a law on climate change and energy transition. Precisely so that this work does not remain in the water of drunkards, we bring some of the key points of that proposal to this motion for the approval of this Parliament. In our view, the objectives of the Government's preliminary draft law remain very short. If we are serious about our goal of addressing climate change, we have to go much further. Let me quote Greta Thunberg, the sixteen-year-old who has taken the initiative to mobilize and who is leading the global movement against climate change. She said: Until you begin to focus on what needs to be done rather than what is politically possible, there will be no hope. It is in this context that we propose much more ambitious objectives than those set by the Government. If emissions have to be drastically reduced, they have to start to decline in 2020 - that's next year - and fall to bits until 2030. Neither Europe nor any European country should avoid its responsibilities and, by the way, among these European countries there is no doubt Spain, which, according to a ranking published at the Katowice Summit, ranks number 35 out of 56 in the fight against climate change, that is, we are rather on the line. Ladies and gentlemen, nuclear power plants are not clean, they generate long-term radioactive waste, the long-term management of which we have not been able to solve. And yes, nuclear can also be shut down. We do not accept blackmail between climate apocalypse or nuclear apocalypse. Certainly, we live in difficult times, in which toxic characters such as Trump or Bolsonaro, who deny the existence of climate change, triumph. By the way, here too, the allies of the People's Party and the Citizens' Party, with whom they govern in Andalusia, deny climate change, and I would like them to explain how they can govern with people who deny the existence of this phenomenon that is so seriously affecting us. But this must not stop our action. These characters will pass, but climate change won't go away. Therefore, if we are truly committed, it is imperative that drastic measures be taken, such as some proposed in our motion, the ban on fracking and the prospecting and extraction of hydrocarbons at sea. For us, another key element is energy efficiency to curb emissions. It is well known that the energy that pollutes the least is the energy that is not consumed. This requires a shift to a demand management paradigm, which, by the way, is not addressed in the measures submitted by the Government. We plan an ambitious energy efficiency plan that includes, among other measures, the annual rehabilitation of at least two hundred thousand homes, prioritizing the most vulnerable households and neighbourhoods, and thus also combating energy poverty and generating tens of thousands of jobs. Of course, another axis of our proposal is renewable energy. It is well known that we have a lot of sun and a lot of wind, and it is time to take advantage of that energy much more intensely than has been the case so far. That is why we are proposing a national renewable energy plan to achieve 100 per cent of clean energy in our country. We also insist on two urgent measures: the adoption of the real decrees of self-consumption and access and connection, to ensure once self-consumption can go ahead in our country, and the improvement of auction systems, to ensure their effectiveness. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to combat climate change, we need to change the energy model and end, as we have said before and now again, with systems as suspicious as the so-called fallen benefits of heaven. To this end, we call for an audit of all the costs of the electricity sector. We also deal with the transport sector and, in particular, the car sector. We are convinced that only a thorough renewal of the sector will enable jobs in Spain to be maintained, even increased. If we miss that electric car train we can stay out of play and leave thousands of jobs on the way. By the way, even in the reaction of the People's Party to our proposal against energy poverty it has been said that the energy transition destroys employment; but for employment destroys the one that destroyed the policies against renewable energies of the People's Party Government: more than sixty thousand direct jobs were lost in the renewable energy sector because of the measures taken by the People's Party, in particular the Rajoy Government. The employment balance of the model change we are proposing is very positive, but for us the concept of fair transition is of fundamental value, so that the popular social sectors are benefited and not harmed by this model change. Inequality in the distribution of wealth and power is at the heart of the environmental problem, and it is that environmental problems can be reduced to a distributive problem: a minority receives the benefits of environmental degradation while a majority suffers the consequences. This is inconceivable, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is already the youngest who are making the way. For them the fight against climate change is a matter of life and death; it is not another issue. We are facing a crisis of survival. As they say, we make a school strike because we have done our homework - by the way, next March 15th there is an international strike called against climate change -. Some say that we are the hope - they say - that we are going to save the world, but we will not, it is not true, there is no time to wait for us to grow, we need to act now in the face of the climate crisis; we have neither plan B nor planet B, there is no escape possible. I conclude with his words: we have begun to clean up your disaster and we will not stop until we are finished. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u159	Thank you very much, Mr López de Uralde. To defend the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Campuzano i Canados, the Joint Parliamentary Group, is speaking.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u160	Mr President, I am speaking from the seat too. My group has tabled an amendment to this initiative by the Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea where it raises some issues linked to the strict Catalan agenda for combating climate change, which are not minor and which were not in that text and which I hope Mr Uralde will be able to take on. First, it is a mandate for the Government to withdraw the appeal to the Constitutional Court from the Catalan Climate Change Act. A ruling by the House in this regard would be essential; a law that was voted by the commons, by Initiative per Catalunya, in the corresponding legislature. Secondly, another important Catalan demand is the need to territorialize the carbon fund resources among the autonomous communities, precisely in order to make possible adaptation policies, which are largely the competence of the autonomous communities, and mitigation policies in diffuse sectors, which are also the competence of the autonomous communities. It cannot be that the resources of the State derived essentially from the auctions of emissions rights are not devoted to policies to combat climate change in those matters which are autonomous competence. I must remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that a recent study by Elcano, which the spokespersons of the Ecological Transitional Commission were able to meet a few weeks ago, called precisely for the laws to combat climate change to include mechanisms for financing the policies of the territories, regions, Länder, states, autonomous communities. These are two issues on the Catalan agenda together with a third that is fundamental in Catalonia, which is to place the subsidy to the Barcelona Metropolitan Transport Authority at the 2008 levels. It is impossible to pretend to reduce emissions in the metropolitan area of Barcelona without public transport having sufficient resources to be a real alternative to the private car. I hope that amendment will also be able to accept it. Finally, we have tabled two more amendments. In the field of electric cars, we pick up what companies and trade unions are asking us; that horizon of a mobile park without cars that emit CO2 needs an industrial policy that accompanies it. Without an industrial policy that accompanies it, we leave the automotive sector at the foot of the horses. I therefore hope that Mr Uralde will also accept that commitment from this industrial policy to accompany the transformation of this sector. I'm done, Madam President. Drawing on the experience of British law, we suggest that they take on the idea of creating an independent advisory body to combat climate change. The British model is helping to build good public policy in the UK. I hope Mr Uralde can accept our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would make a recommendation to some of your ladies and gentlemen today on climate change, for example, to Mr Girauta. The planet is already too hot for them to contribute with their interventions to warm it even more. We could use a little cooling the tone of the debates. Probably the people who are here watching us would appreciate it. The People's Party did little, and that had an absolute majority. Rather, he did the opposite way. Let us remember the sun tax or the Law of Reform of the electric system, which are just against it. I believe that Mr. Rajoy's cousin's paradigm was apotheosic. We thought that the PSOE - although we have seen very good intentions in the minister - could have done a little more and not wait until the last Council of Ministers to approve the preliminary draft climate change law. Indeed, whether we like it or not, we live in a climate emergency and are warning all organisms. We find ourselves in a global emergency situation in which, as politicians and responsible for the various Governments, we believe that we are not taking the firm steps that future generations would require. For weeks the young Europeans are mobilizing and going out on the street every Friday to demand from us, politicians and policies - the ones we have to make laws - that we act, that we put climate change at the centre of the media and political agenda. Frankly, I am excited and filled with hope to see these young people moving around Europe, that this movement is spreading like an oil stain and that it starts to do so here too, in cities like Girona, Barcelona and soon - on March 1 - in Valencia. I ended up not bothering the President any more. Although we politicians have time, the climate and future generations do not have it and we have to act now, that is why we will vote in favour of these measures, which we think are reasonable and which we have already defended on several occasions from this very rostrum. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez González has the floor. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u164	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all in this House aware of the gravity and scope of climate change. They know that it is a threat to the health, security and economic prosperity of our citizens. They know that we are facing the greatest moral crisis of our time, where the least guilty will suffer the greatest consequences. We are facing a complex challenge that demands doubling our R & D, revolutionizing our industries and consumption, but at the same time it is a huge opportunity. Tomorrow's economy will be sustainable or not. The international scientific community urges us to make unprecedented changes in all aspects of society. The opposite would mean extinction of species, sea level rise, extreme heat, torrential rains, drought; all with devastating effects on the Mediterranean region where we are. I have to confess that listening to the minister last week in her response to Mr Uralde's urgent inquiry plunged me into perplexity. I was talking about executive frameworks, dialogue, plans, projects, right now that the legislature is over, and I don't know why listening to it came to my head. The altarpiece of wonders, the one that made and composed the wise Tontonelo and in which none can see the things that are shown in it unless they are in the delicious entremés of old Christian Cervantes and here I believe that members of Mr Sánchez's Government. [[Applauds]] The Socialist Party's gentlemen have spent eight months looking to the past, talking about Franco and not meeting the challenge of the future that climate change poses for Spain. As in the altarpiece of the wise Tontonelo, the Lords of Podemos and their members of the legislature have been subdued, but they pretend and applaud for fear of being pointed out or for what they will say. Eight months of statements, announcements and probe balloons have gone by, they have searched for the headline and scored so many, instead of consensus and serious work. The legislature is over and they have not brought a climate change law, which Mrs Ribera promised in this House for the month of August last year. They have dedicated themselves to dizziness, with draft laws without transparent scientific support and pre-projects full of inconcretions. This parliamentary term is over and we continue without a fair transition strategy that establishes a diagnosis of the sectors concerned, actions to be carried out and economic endowment. It must be the centre of all climate policies. No one can be threatened in their employment, but neither can they become an excuse not to act. On a dead planet there will be no work. This legislature is over and we still lack an integrated energy and climate plan. It should have been sent before 31 December to the European Commission. It is the key document to define the country's commitment, to achieve European energy and climate objectives, and they sent it last week, without talking, without consensus; but, of course, they were very busy talking about the future, talking about Franco. [[Applauds]] This parliamentary term is over and they have not brought us a circular economy strategy that will allow us to reduce our waste, our CO2 emissions and put an end to uncontrolled landfills. Last June we were reported to the Court of Justice of the European Union for not having established plans for waste management in the communities of Balearic Islands, Aragon, Madrid and the Canary Islands and the Autonomous City of Ceuta. 1513 illegal landfills must still be closed, sealed and regenerated. Gentlemen of Podemos and the PSOE, the legislature is over and we do not have a state-of-the-art water pact that advances in the modernization of our National Hydrological Plan. One third of the country is in water stress and by 2030 65% of the country will be in water stress. Our wetlands and habitats are in serious danger and we have been denounced for the situation of Doñana, a World Heritage Site. Spain cannot lag behind in mitigation and adaptation to climate change. Doing nothing is not an option for Citizens, not only because the costs would be catastrophic, but because the sustainable economy will be the driving force behind the economic development of the future. Our goal is a 100 percent sustainable economy in the 2050 scenario and for this we will strengthen the leadership of the public sector, put rigorous scientific analysis at the heart of the debate and simplify legislative and fiscal regulations. Gentlemen of Podemos, there are things in your motion that we agree on, but you are not to be trusted. They already showed it to us when they had the opportunity to reach a consensus in the subcommission of water, preferring sectarianism and demagogy, ignoring the contributions of Citizens and the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Paraphrased Mrs Espinosa, UN Secretary for Climate Change, climate change is not rhetorical, it is reality; it is not politics, it is science, and it is not a suggestion, it is a warning. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, you, like the People's Party, have wasted precious time on this country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. Mrs Sagastizabal has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u166	Thank you, President. Over the past decade, climate change has certainly become an economic, social and environmental challenge. Climate change presents a number of variables that require broad and flexible planning from the very transversal nature of impacts or actions, require the need to involve the different actors of society and a wide range of temporal horizons, as well as the uncertainty associated with their impacts. To combat climate change, it is necessary to move towards a new energy model based on the decarbonisation of the electricity sector, the electrification of the economy and the increase of energy efficiency, but also to achieve this energy transition, a road map is needed setting out concrete objectives and measures, but to do so we will have to coordinate with the autonomous communities and more with those such as ours, Euskadi, since we have competence in this area, legislative development and implementation. In addition, we believe that synergies must be sought to ensure that energy policy is developed in an appropriate, consensual manner and taking into account the needs of each territory. The motion raises a number of issues. On the one hand, it sets out a set of 2030 targets, perhaps too ambitious, for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, renewable energy and energy efficiency. We say that they are more ambitious because they are bigger than those established by Europe, both by 2020 and by 2050. The motion is at its peak, which we doubt to date can be achieved. The ambition is good but whenever we are realistic and can be achieved; otherwise it generates false expectations, with consequent frustration. It should also be stressed that reducing greenhouse gas emissions and establishing strategies to adapt to the impacts of climate change has already ceased to be perceived simply as a threat to becoming an opportunity to achieve a more competitive economy. In 2011, the European Commission already published the Roadmap to a Competitive Low Carbon Economy in 2050, which recommended a series of commitments and identified innovation and technological development in renewable energy; land management and urban planning; the transition to a more efficient and sustainable European transport system and buildings with virtually zero GHG emissions through energy savings and efficiency; and renewable energy. We believe that a low-carbon and climate-friendly competitive economy must be built on the consolidation of a knowledge-based climate change policy that will enable us to take advantage of the opportunities offered by innovation and technological development in this field as well. In this regard, the motion proposes a number of measures which we consider positive but which are raised, from our point of view, from the point of view of recentralisation, without taking into account the Autonomous Communities. And it's that they talk about a national plan for energy efficiency, energy rehabilitation of homes and in some autonomous communities such as that of Euskadi, not only... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u167	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u168	... there are energy efficiency plans, but also currently a law on energy sustainability of Basque public administrations so that they contribute to energy savings and efficiency and play an exemplary role in the efficient use of the country's energy. We have conceived climate change, as I said earlier, as a niche also of opportunity to achieve a competitive economy. In this respect, we have a programme of aid for the rehabilitation and efficiency of housing and buildings; initiatives for energy efficiency for application in public buildings; modernization of electricity networks of polygons and companies and, even, encouraging investment in R & D+i in renewable energy; a renewable energy plan and we have industrial implementation in this very important sector. On the other hand, they re-propose measures that have also been proposed today in the non-legislative proposal, for example, the carrying out of an audit of costs, the approval of a decree of self-consumption and access and connection, the latter matters which have already been addressed in the Royal Decree of urgent measures for the energy transition and the protection of consumers. On the other hand, they also propose measures as minimum sales targets for electric vehicles, which we do not know whether they have been talked about and agreed or agreed with the sector or the reasons for why this volume is not another. The same applies to railway penetration. For all that, given that we are skeptical about the elaboration of national plans and that there are other measures that are being proposed and already included in a decree-law and others that are already being developed in the autonomous communities and even the indefinacy of some others, we will abstain in the vote. Moreover, in the change to the energy transition we do not need isolated measures, in short, patches, but we need to address the problem and have a solid strategic plan aligned with the industrial, economic and environmental sectors and of course with the autonomous communities. Eskerrik asko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u169	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u170	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote in favour of the motion on the need to act urgently on the World Meteorological Organization data showing how the last four years have been the warmest since there are records and confirming the worsening of climate change. A motion that, to begin with, demonstrates a fact and is that all the great proposals that this Government has promised to adopt, such as the repeal of the Law on Mordality, the reform of the Lomce, the labor reform or the same law on climate change, to put some examples, nothing at all. None of this remains, just a simple declaration of intent. With the advance of the elections, the Government has shown that above and beyond the interest in the consolidation of social policies, of great laws, it is trapped in the electoral dynamics and pressures of the extreme right and dissensions in its own party. The extension of the budgets provided could have allowed progress in the processing of these laws and it has not been intended; it has simply not been intended. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u171	Wait a minute, Mr. Eritja.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u172	I say more, if their real will was to be approved, they should not have risen from the dialogue table at any time. For our part, they have always had our free support and we have passed them a multitude of decree-laws on matters of great social importance. Now you go to the elections with nothing in the band. In the case of the law of ecological and energy transition, it is a great pity, as we know that for the first time there was express will and qualified human equipment to move forward. The draft law at the last moment indicates this real will of the Government. But we have remained alone on the theoretical level, not on the resolution, which is what is being asked here. On an issue like this we have been late for years because of the inoperation of the previous right-wing governments, which have defended other priorities and interests and not this in particular, although we all know what non-compliance with the Paris Agreements can mean and we are all aware of how far away we are from achieving them. Although there are still those who profile themselves or close their eyes to reality today, the effects of climate change are clear and manifest. One of the main evidences is the increase in temperatures, with the side effects that it entails on many aspects of everyday social and economic life. Effects that not only have global consequences, but are already having an impact at local and regional level, and this is perhaps the most important thing. I am not going to go into details on what aspects we should be working on, but I do want to insist on a simple example of the opinion of the sub-committee on water and climate change. The problems created by the water stress scenario on the peninsula - and which already seriously affects society and the regional economy today - are the result of the climate change that we have on top of it. The future prospects of Cedex are no longer optimistic in this regard. Starting from the precautionary principle, they forecast a medium flow reduction scenario from 2010 until the end of the century of the order of 24 %, which can reach between 30 and 40 % in the most sensitive areas, while the infiltration that feeds the aquifers will decrease by 27 % on the end of the century horizon. Faced with this forecast, the right-wing side believes that the old policies of new hydraulic infrastructures, such as dams and transfers, and privatization, will solve the crisis. I have even heard in this Chamber that what is not possible is to throw water into the sea. That there is no water, ladies and gentlemen, that there is no water! There will be no water! It's just this, there's no water. It depends on a management issue. This is the right's non-environmental policy, which is why it is so urgent to have a law that allows us to put the challenge of climate change in order and seriously. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, this government has lacked courage, courage to be able to face major challenges such as climate change, challenges that only the left can face; it is clear, only the left understands, wants and can face. The same lack of courage to want to resolve by democratic means a conflict such as the Catalan that has been enquished for years and which, of course, leads to political instability throughout the State. The only ones who today show courage to a state that today is unable to face these great challenges are Jordi Cuixart and Carme Forcadell. I repeat, the only ones who today show courage in a state incapable of facing the great challenges are Jordi Cuixart and Carme Forcadell. And without courage, ladies and gentlemen, no progress is made. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. Eritja. For the Socialist Group, Mr Lamuà Estañol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u174	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr López de Uralde, let me start by telling you that I have a good friend who always repeats to me that one, throughout his life, is always an apprentice and, over these months and years sharing with you many commissions, I have learned a lot. We have often agreed and perhaps today will serve as an example of what this legislature has been for us. [[Applauds]] Mr López de Uralde, you are presenting to us today, as you did last week, an initiative that sounds more like a pre-election platform than a real concern and that last week your interventions were plagued with words such as disappointment or disappointment to refer to the work of the Ministry of Ecological Transition for me certifies it. It is a ministry whose mere existence is the greatest declaration of intentions that a Spanish government could have made; more, after having Energy subjugated to Industry and Environment being the ugly duck of the Ministry of Agriculture. So much negative maximalism in his interventions seemed to me, at least, to be an overly electoral point for what I am accustomed to. Let me say, Mr López de Uralde, that it seems to me that the repeated criticism of Minister Ribera sounds more like wanting to protect her electoral niche, which I respect, before a minister who has proved to be deeply ecological, clearly an animal advocate and a fighter, even at the risk of her own reputation, in favour of taking measures to defend our environment and put Spain in the place it deserves to have in the fight against climate change in Europe. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, in the area of environment and the fight against climate change, short lights are not worth it, and you know it. It is necessary to have the view placed on the horizon, in this case on the horizons, on those common ones that we mark globally and in which Spain will have to comply. After finding empty drawers in the change of government, the socialist executive hurried to elaborate as quickly as possible the plans and laws that we needed in the near future. And it did so quickly, yes, but with responsibility and with the quality that a Government of a State like Spain must have. On an issue such as climate change, I suppose none of your ladies and gentlemen would prefer rapidity to fall short of a mediocre outcome. The Government's commitment to the implementation of the Paris Agreement and the 2030 Agenda is reflected in the Strategic Framework for Energy and Climate adopted last Friday. The key components of this framework are three: the preliminary draft climate change and ecological transition law, the national energy and climate plan and the just transition strategy. The sum of these three pillars allows Spain to have a stable and certain strategic framework for the decarbonisation of its economy, an efficient road map for the next decade and a strategy of solidarity and fair transition because in addition to having ambitious objectives, which we must have, we must ensure that no one is left behind in this transition and that we guarantee fair opportunities for all our citizens during it. Wanting to counter a good strategic plan with options, some more utopian, is respectable, forward, but the needs in the fight against climate change are firmness, conviction, sense of reality and State responsibility. The Socialist Party has been based on this and it will continue to be based on this. I'm finishing up with a couple of more general notes. As a non-independence Catalan, listening to an intervention this afternoon like Mr Girauta's has really removed my guts because I would tell Mr Girauta that the Toledo exile he has told us is surely the closest thing to the Waterloo house that Carles Puigdemont has. [[Applauds]] One cannot bind it brown in Catalonia and then leave without asking for forgiveness from all Catalans who leave behind after their politics. [[Applauds]] It's over, President. Today we have been delighted by the right-wing spokesmen with another session of apocalyptic predictions and agonizing accounts of daily reality, secret covenants and judeomasonic contubernias. Edward Murrow said facing McCarthy that his main achievement had been to confuse public opinion with the internal and external threats he was promulgating. Play to manipulate, ladies and gentlemen of the right, but the work is there, the change is there and the reality will pass you a bill. Ladies and gentlemen, good night, and good luck. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u175	Thank you very much, Mr Lamuà. Mrs Martínez Ferro has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u176	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Only four months ago I defended in this rostrum a proposal for a law on climate change and energy transition that had been achieved thanks to the work of many, among others, of all of you. However, the majority of groups in this House, including you, Mr López de Uralde, refused to admit to the procedure a text that would have served as a basis for dealing with an agreement on how Spain should deal with the fight against climate change, a struggle in which we all agree, and I say well, we all agree. The reason was pure and simple that that was a proposal of the People's Party and the newly arrived Socialist Party and Mrs Ribera wanted to have their own law. They therefore despised all previous work only to mark and isolate the People's Party, that is, its intention was purely ideological. They wanted to make it clear that climate change is an issue that only you care about. Let me tell you that more than climate change has to do with the political environment. This government of the Socialist Party, which you, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, support, has not only not presented your law in this House, but the text that you released last Saturday did not agree with anyone, not even with you, and that is why you are obliged to present this motion in the final drafts of this legislature to ask the government for more ambition. Ladies and gentlemen, this would not really surprise us, we are practically cured of shock, but it would not surprise us if we were not talking about an issue that deeply affects many sectors of the productive system of a country that is leaving with a great deal of effort from the worst economic crisis in its history. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain needs to start a process of transition to a low-carbon and climate-resilient economy as a matter of urgency. We need a serious and reliable regulatory framework so that the industries concerned can continue to invest and create jobs. Spain needs no more uncertainty, no more electoral promises impossible to fulfil. [[Applauds]] Today we could have a climate change law passed by a large majority, perhaps even by consensus, and if this has not been possible it has been exclusively by political ambition, not by climate ambition. This is clear as things have been done. Last week, three days after announcing that we were going to hold the general elections in April, this government presents to the public, not in this House, its preliminary draft climate change law, a law that basically follows the lines that were marked in the proposal of the People's Party but to which was added the corresponding socialist added value, socialist VAT. That is, where we had energy efficiency and renewable energy targets of 32%, in line with our size and economy within the European Union, they were up to 35%. This is unique and exclusively if we comply with the preliminary draft law on climate change and energy transition. If we look at the figures presented in the Energy and Climate Plan presented to Brussels, which will therefore be binding on the next government, the figures will rise to 42 % and 39,5 %. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, it seems to me that you are not being very fair when in this motion you ask the Socialist Group to be even more ambitious in the objectives. The problem of this law is not ambition, it is realism; it is not what, in which we all agree, is how. That is to say, it is the same as your motion, which you are presenting to us today: it is how you will achieve that in the next eleven years we will have 45% of final energy consumption through renewables and also without nuclear power, which do not emit CO2. Tell us, please, how they're gonna get it because maybe if they explain it to us, they can convince us. They also call for a renewable energy plan in the motion. This is not a matter of plans, renewable energy plan we already have. The problem we have now is what is the concrete alternative that you are putting forward in this motion for Spain to continue to function, to create jobs, to grow economically and also to implement these impossible climate goals. You are also asking for a new scheme for the auction of renewables. Look, we created an auction scheme that awarded 9000 megawatts between 2016 and 2017. This government in almost a year has not been able to make a single auction, so tell me how they intend to put 3000 megawatts a year into the system. Finally, I cannot resist commenting on point 9, where they say that they would like to set minimum sales targets for electric vehicles. I would like to know how they want to do this; that is, what they want is for the government to force companies to set business goals, and what would happen to companies if they refuse to do so or fail to do so? I'd like you to explain this. In short, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a moral debate between good and bad and between good and bad. Stop your efforts to insist on that side. You know that the fight against climate change is not an option, it is a fact and on the facts it is not discussed. What's on us now is to discuss how we face him, and it's about confronting him with the limbs we have. The limbs we have are an economic and social situation, which is Spain in 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, this legislature has not lost one but two opportunities to allow Spain to advance along the path of countries with an energy and climate legal framework that allows security, certainty and guarantees to key sectors for the future of Spain, an opportunity to prepare and meet the greatest challenge facing the world in the twenty-first century. I hope you have learned once and for all that opportunism, electoralism and short-term calculation is as much your enemy as the future of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u177	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mr López de Uralde whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u178	I accept the amendment by the PDECAT.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u179	The amendment of the PDECAT, very well, we will take it into account for the vote. In three minutes we shall proceed to the vote. Thank you very much. [[The President took the Chair.-Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u180	Let's start the voting.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u181	We vote, first of all, to take into consideration the proposed law of the Organic Socialist Parliamentary Group for the reform of the Organic Law 5/1985 of 19 June of the General Electoral Regime, for the regulation of the exercise of voting by Spaniards living abroad. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 plus 2 telematics votes, 341; 339 plus 2 telematics votes, 341.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u182	It's taken into consideration. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations (CGE) can, in common, protect the full range of sexual freedom and the eradication of sexual violence. [[File number 122/00279]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u183	Let us now proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to vote for the proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, for the comprehensive protection of sexual freedom and for the eradication of sexual violence. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 plus 2 telematics votes, 341; 173 plus 2 telematics votes, 175; abstentions, 166.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u184	It's taken into consideration. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u185	Let us now proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on the text of the proposals for no law as agreed in the course of the debate. No law proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the adoption of measures to reduce the price of electricity. We shall vote on it, ladies and gentlemen, for points. We shall begin by voting on item 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 73 against, 167 abstentions, 100.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u186	It's rejected. Points 6, 11 and 13. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 76 against, 143 abstentions, 120.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u187	They're rejected. Rest of points. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 104 against, 133 abstentions, 103.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u188	They're rejected. - THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, RELATING TO THE INFRAFINANCE OF CONCERTED EDUCATION AND TO AVOID THE ELIMINATION OF DEDUCTIONS IN THE TAX OF FAMILY RENTALS WITH CHILDREN IN CONCERTED COLLECTIONS. [[File number 162/000906]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u189	We are now voting for the non-law proposal by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group to end the underfunding of concerted education and to avoid the elimination of deductions in the income tax of families with children in concerted schools. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on your terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 173 against, 163 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u190	It's approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u191	We continue with the votes on the motions following urgent appeals. First of all, an urgent motion by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress to explain whether the educational reform is going to guarantee the right to quality education and freedom of education. The vote was taken on the compromise amendment tabled by the People's and Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 167 against, 172 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u192	It's rejected. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE NEGOTIATIONS OF THE Vice-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTER OF PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND EQUALITY WITH CATALAN INDEPENDENTITY. [[File number 173/000136]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u193	Motion following urgent questioning by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the negotiations of the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Equality with Catalan independence. We will vote on your terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour 166 against 174.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u194	It's rejected. - the Confederal Group of the European United States of America may, in common, be able to do so, with regard to the need to act urgently before the data of the world meteorological organization, which show how the last four years have been the warmest since there have been registers and which confirm the improvement of the climate change. [[File number 173/000137]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u195	We now vote on the motion following an urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the need to act urgently before the data of the World Meteorological Organization, which show how the last four years have been the warmest since there are records and which confirm the worsening of climate change. We are going to vote on it in terms of incorporating the amendment from the Joint Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 85 against, 131 abstentions, 123.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-26-CD190226.u196	It's rejected. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was eight and fifty-five minutes of the night.
