ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u1	The meeting was resumed. We continue with the speaking time of the parliamentary groups. I would like to announce to you that, after the statements have been made, the vote will be taken, which, as you know, will be made public by appeal, in accordance with Rules 85 and 86 of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress. In accordance with Rule 171.5 of the Rules of Procedure, I announce that the vote will take place not before 1 p.m. We begin with the debate. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Winning is convincing and one must convince above all, but it cannot convince hatred that leaves no room for compassion, that hatred of intelligence that is critical, distinctive and inquisitive. There's been talk of Catalans and Basques calling them anti-Spanish. Well, for the same reason, they can say so much. You'll win but you won't convince. You will win because you have excess brute strength, but you will not convince, because convincing means persuading and to persuade you need something that you lack in this struggle: reason and right. I find it useless to ask you to think of Spain. Does this ring a bell? Miguel de Unamuno said it at the Paraninfo of the University of Salamanca on October 12, 1936, almost eighty-three years ago - eighty-three - in front of the fascist Millán Astray. And if a gentleman as conservative as him, but just conservative, today here would listen to some of you, I would repeat it by looking you in the eye. Moderate, gentlemen of the PP, Citizens and VOX, that we are not in 1936. [[Applauds]] I begin this speech by remembering and denouncing. Remembering, remembering the best leader, the best politician, the best partner and the best friend you can have. Never so many different people wanted someone so much. If I ever get you to the sole of your shoes, it'll be a long time. A hug, Joan Tardà. [[Applauds]] And denouncing, again denouncing - once again - the terrible democratic anomaly that supposes that today in this rostrum, right here, is not our friend president, leader and candidate who won the general elections in Catalonia, Oriol Junqueras. [[Applauds]] I'm not the one who should be here, but you, Oriol. I hope you're watching, and I hope I'm up to you. I begin with something dramatically atypical in politics: making self-criticism; self-criticism of a politician. This is mine. For the past four years I have done good things in this House, humbly, but I have also done bad things; quite wrong, the main one: giving too many excuses for talking more about my forms than about the bottom. One day I learned that if you go with a T-shirt with José Couso's face in front of Aznar, you don't talk about the unjust and murderous invasion that cost him his life because of that gentleman; you talk about the size, color and suitability of the T-shirt. That won't happen today, in this speech you won't find excuses. As a good man once taught me, soften so, fortiter in re. Mr. Sanchez, I don't know... I have news for you: you don't have an absolute majority, you didn't win last April 28 by an absolute majority, and no matter how much you act like you have it, you won't have it. What are you doing asking for the abstention to the right? What are you doing asking Citizens and the PP to abstain? What do you do by asking Mr. Married and Mr. Rivera to abstain when you, by principle, good principles, did not do so? What are you doing above all ignoring us? Two hours of investiture speech and a single mention for three seconds, in the end, to its partners, to its hypothetical de facto partners, Unidad Podemos, and zero - zero - to Catalonia. And it is not to speak of the monotheme, as some say, but because it is the main political conflict that you have on the table as the future president of this country, a political conflict that, apart from huge cases of known corruption, has already taken forward a president of the government in this country, who is the registrar of property in Santa Pola, Mariano Rajoy. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: No!-Rumors]] He's irresponsible and negligent. You were an irresponsible and negligent yesterday. Unfortunately, either you're irresponsible or you want to go to elections, and I don't know what's worse. As Isabel García Pagan says in a magnificent article today in La Vanguardia, the elephants you ignored yesterday are herds, and should do a reflection. The truth is, I've been thinking for days about how to explain what happened these days, especially the debate that happened yesterday, and I didn't think anything graphic enough to explain it until I remembered a story that I was told years ago, the story of the fox and the lumberjack. A fox was being chased by hunters until he arrived at a lumberjack's cabin and begged him to help him. The lumberjack came in and hid it under his bed. The hunters came to the cabin and asked the lumberjack if he had seen a fox, if he knew where the fox was, what a woodman with a voice told them not - with a voice - but with gestures pointed them under the bed. The hunters did not understand the gestures of a lumberjack and, relying on what he said to them with his voice, they left. When the fox came out from under the bed and was leaving, the woodmower blamed him for not thanking him for his help, to which the fox replied: "I would have thanked you if your gestures and your voice had corresponded." Well, ladies and gentlemen, the constant feeling of these days is that your gestures and your words did not correspond. His words said: dialogue, left-wing government, people... But their gestures said: vetoes, ministries, vice-presidencies, names, headlines, threats and ultimatums. The feeling has been that here someone or many would say one thing and then do another. The feeling has been that here someone or many were lying. The feeling has been that you have not negotiated until the last minute. The feeling has been that you are playing poker with the illusion of hundreds of thousands of people who went out to vote on April 28, some with their noses covered, with two promises: one, to stop fascism and, two, to make this legislature above all the legislature of the resolution of the political conflict in Catalonia. There is an appointment, somewhat manida but more applicable than ever to the current times, of an Italian intellectual who casually became secretary general of the Italian Communist Party, Antonio Gramsci. He said: Politics has to be seen from the pessimism of reason and the optimism of will. And I'll explain myself. Pessimism of reason, because you, Mr Sánchez, came here without numbers, without the duties done, and yesterday, at times, it seemed more like a pre-election debate on the left taking out - taking out - the eyes and the right clapping with the ears than anything else. But also optimism of the will, because - and I humbly believe that some of us, even taking some scratches along the way, we are helping - you can still save the situation, a situation that would be a historical irresponsibility and that will only pay the left, have the flag you have in the logo. Anyone who believes that if we call again to vote on November 10, people will distinguish between us, between names, between acronyms or between speeches, they are wrong; they are mistaken or lie, or perhaps they have been in an office surrounded by demoscopy gurus for too long. This duck, Mr. Sánchez, ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations, we can, we'll all pay. So if with these limbs that we have, with these majorities that we have, we are not able to solve, propose and give answers to the enormous political challenges that we have ahead, we will all deserve the children of Aznar and Don Pelayo to pass us over; we will deserve it if we are not able to agree. It is up to you, Mr Sánchez, it is up to you, ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations. We're here. Mr. Sanchez, I respect you. I have made this public and I say it to you here personally today. I respect you because you are the first secretary general of the PSOE who won against Prisa - it is a very important merit - and I respect you for your impeccable and courageous 'no' to Rajoy, a 'no is no' and a personal situation that explained in an already mythical interview with Jordi Évole on television. The story is known: you get a 155, you get kicked out of the PSOE General Secretariat and then you take off the tie, you take the car, you go around the country and you get it back. And it recovers it against one of the biggest power and media machines that have existed, exactly the same power and media machinery that they have had against the comrades of the United Nations. We can, specifically Mr. Iglesias, and above all the same power and media machinery that he has had against Catalan republicanism, and I refer to the facts. The good news, Mr Sánchez, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, is that the three of us have overcome it, and that's what we share, that's what unites us and that's what we should be proud of, and that's also what should make us reflect and realize that we are called, condemned, to understand ourselves. Our offer, my offer here today, Mr Sánchez, is this: let us understand ourselves. The question, Mr Sánchez and ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, is whether you also want to respect us and whether you also want to agree with us; in short, whether you want to do politics, because we come here to do politics. The second question, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, and specifically, Mr Sánchez, is what you want to be, what you want to be, what Mr Sánchez wants to be, because if we find one, this will be very easy, but if we find another, it will be terribly difficult. Will you be Mr. Sanchez of 'no is no', or will you be Mr. Sanchez of 'no to Churches'? Will you be the PSOE of the reprobation to Soraya Sáenz of Santamaría by the clubs of October 1, or will you be the PSOE of 'equal we apply 155 again if you behave badly'? Will you be Mr Sánchez in the spirit of the 180 Members of the motion of censure to Rajoy, or Mr Sánchez who veto the appearances of Rajoy and Florentino Pérez in committees of inquiry in this House? Will you be the lords of the PSOE who received the Aquarius in Valencia in a beautiful way, or will you be the PSOE who kidnaps the Aita Mari in Pasaia and the Open Arms in Barcelona, by the way, threatening them with fines of 900 000 euros, to the Salvini? Will you be Mr. Sánchez of plurinationality in campaign, or will you be Mr. Sánchez who silences Mr. Borrell's insults and espionages, García-Page insults and Lambán insults? Will you be Mr Sánchez of 'the mistake was to judicialize a political conflict that is resolved by voting' - textual words - or will you be Mr Sánchez of 'independence is a threat to coexistence'? What will Mr. Sanchez be? What PSOE will we have in front of us? [[Applauds]] It's up to you. We're here. Be aware of something, of the enormous effort of generosity that we are making here today, of the enormous effort of generosity and responsibility that is being made here today by the Republican Group, the group that I have the honour to represent in this rostrum. Be aware of the enormous exercise of responsibility that we are doing here today not talking to the stomach, because I can assure you that the stomach asks for something else. We voted to you a motion of censure for free, because throwing Moncloa thieves was not an option, it was an obligation. We voted for you a free spending ceiling, knowing that the People's Party was going to bring you down in the Senate. And we vote for you twenty-eight of your twenty-nine free royal decrees; all except, of course, that of the vulture funds. And we only asked for one thing: dialogue and talk; dialogue and talk. And history is known; that famous word heresy arose: rapporteur. And everyone knows what happened: demonstration of the trills in Colón, coverts and editorials of the cave against and Mrs Carmen Calvo at a press conference, already celebrated, saying: We got up from the table. Fear. And they supported an electoral campaign, together - and it pains me a lot to say - with the comrades of Unidad Podemos, with only one leitmotiv: the independenceists are responsible; the independenceists are irresponsible; the independenceists are intransigent; the independenceists are the ones that block. You were telling us; you, who are here today playing Russian roulette with giving Casado, Rivera and Abascal a second chance to get to Moncloa [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and the United Nations, we have been spied on, slandered, beaten and imprisoned, literally. The president of my party and winner - I repeat, winner - of the elections in Catalonia is following this debate from a cell of 11 square meters, literally. My colleagues, our friends, are being asked by those people 500 years in jail for literally voting for a referendum. [[A Member of the European Parliament: Illegal]] His family members hide a dog before entering to see their family members forty minutes a week in a cabin - calm - with a glass in the middle, literally. [[rumors.-A lady MP: Just like everyone else]] Mr. Sanchez, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, do you see that woman over there? [[Noting the seats of the Republican Parliamentary Group]] Her name is Montse Bassa - Montse Bassa -, she is the sister of Dolors Bassa and has been watching her sister in prison every week for two years, enduring that here irresponsible and pyromaniacs call her fascist and coup. I tell you one thing, with all due respect: if she is sitting here today holding this and doing politics, holding her hand, please sit around a table and do the same. [[Applauds]] We here today are giving the word a historic opportunity in the face of hatred; we here today are giving the word a historic opportunity in the face of hatred; we are giving a historical opportunity in the face of politics, and if we are capable, you too should be able to do so. Our analysis is as follows. In the current Spanish political landscape there are only three parties that have survived the time, the crises, the wars, the peoples and even kings and republics: PSOE, PNV and Esquerra Republicana -140,123 and 88 years of history respectively -, three political forces that date once again here today and that have won, together with our comrades of the left abertzale, with Bildu, their elections in their respective countries unquestionably. The PNV and Bildu in Euskal Herria, Esquerra Republicana in Catalonia and the PSOE in Spain. And with what speech did these four political formations in their respective countries present themselves and undoubtedly won the elections? With a very clear speech, with a speech of dialogue, agreement, negotiation and politics, especially politics. If we join the comrades of the United Nations, we can, among the five, stand before us more than 12 million votes and 190 Members; more than 12 million people who bet, who have mandated us, who literally force us to bolt into a table of negotiation and dialogue and to speak, speak, speak and speak again, so that once and for all we stop being the problem and become the solution. What do you think people thought of us yesterday? What do you think? People came in last night, after they left their backs, and they put on the news and saw ten seconds of people throwing the dishes at each other's heads. That's what you saw. It is part of our responsibility to stop being the problem and to be the solution, and I say something to you, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and of the United Nations We can: we, that group there, win the elections in our country, in Catalonia, with a million votes and fifteen Members, being - and we believe we are - the main Catalan group in this House. [[pointing to the bench of your parliamentary group]] We are indispensable to the governance of this country. You have to talk to us. They're lentils, which my grandmother used to say, no matter how much they don't want to see us. You, Mr Sánchez, are forty-seven years old; you, Mrs Lastra, are forty; you, Mr Iglesias, are also forty; Mrs Montero is thirty-one, and I am thirty-seven. We are part of the generation that is called, that is forced to solve this political conflict and to dignify the civil and social rights that have been squandered by the right in recent years. We have no excuse. I don't want to leave any more speeches to the hemeroteca - and these days I've read a lot - our children or our grandchildren. We have a chance to do that. Be aware of something, Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias: the only obstacle for Mrs Arrimadas to be Minister of the Interior, for Mr Marcos de Quinto to be Minister of Economy - someone is already getting his hair on top - for Mr Cantó to be Minister of Culture and for Mr Abascal to be Minister of Defence, it is you and us. What are we gonna do? That's the question. Let us talk about the future, about proposals, about answers; let us be useful. If we want to make this legislature the legislature of negotiation, the resolution of the political conflict in Catalonia or with Catalonia and the dignity of civil and social rights, let us demonstrate this. The Catalan Republican Group brings you today a synthesis, a package of measures, proposals for the national, social, economic and civil spheres. We are a parliamentary group with a very clear history, embodied in the immense Joan Tardà, a history of help, of support for any initiative, any politician, any party that is about to dignify people's lives, living where they live. We have said it many times and we repeat it here today: not at all, the blockade on Spain, apart from being naïf, is irresponsible, because it means, for example, leaving a lady in Lavapiés without municipal water, and we will never do that. I do not steal Spain from us; I repeat, I do not steal Spain from me. He steals me Rat, he steals me Barcenes, he steals Millet and he steals me Pujol, and no matter where they are. [[applause]] This is why we present you with a synthesis of our proposals that await counterproposals; I repeat, proposals that expect counterproposals, not threats, not complicit silences; they expect counterproposals, proposals regarding national rights and resolution of the political conflict in Catalonia. Do you think that sentencing Oriol Junqueras and his company to 15 years in prison will solve something? Do you really believe that? Do you believe that by denying us or incarculating us, more than two million people who, in a heroic and uninterrupted way, vote for the Catalan Republic will disappear? They're wrong. We propose something that any Democrat can come to share and understand. One, dialogue table - I repeat, dialogue table -, talk. A table, a meeting point that brings together all - I repeat, all - the political sensibilities of Catalonia, all. I would love to see Mrs. Arrimadas and Mrs. Alvarez de Toledo sitting around a table negotiating and not insulting. I'd love to, and I think it's part of our responsibility to do so. Dialogue tables that recognize mutual national recognition, mutual national recognition, and that no one asks the other to stop being who he is, I repeat, to stop being who he is. I am not going to ask Mr. Casado to stop defending the abolition of autonomy, nor am I going to ask Mr. Rivera to stop defending what he needs to defend that month. I am not going to ask anyone to stop being who he is, I am not going to ask him. [[protests]] [[laughs]] All I ask is that no one ask me to stop being who I am: Republican, leftist and Catalan independenceist. [[Applauds]] Let us return to politics something that should never have come out. Two, democracy; vote. Newspapers with little suspicion of being Bolivian secessionists such as El País and El journal de Cataluña have already published surveys that show that between 78 and 84% of the population of Catalonia want to vote, and above all knows that these issues are not addressed by sticks, but are addressed in front of an urn. Between 78 and 84%, and among them there are people who vote for you, Mr Married; there are people who vote for you, Mr Rivera, and above all there are people who vote for you, Mr Sánchez. We believe that this is the best solution.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u3	Mr. Rufián, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u4	Excuse me. Proposals on social rights and the economy - I will finish immediately, Madam President -. Fair taxation, something as simple as stopping three people in this country - Amancio Ortega, Ana Botín and Juan Roig - who charge exactly the same - I repeat, three - that fifteen million people, and who pay the same taxes as a SEAT worker. Anyone - it's the abecé on the left - knows that's wrong. We want the one who has the most input and the one who has the least input; as simple as that. Dignification of the labour market, leaving aside or repealing the 2010 and 2012 labour reforms. And especially in this competition of yesterday's lefts between you - which sounded good, the music sounded good - remember the synthesizing, the unemployed of more than fifty-two years - 1200 suicides - that just a few meters from here are camping. A hug for them. [[Applauds]] Commissions of inquiry. We ask for the reopening of the commission of inquiry of the cloacas of the State; Villarejo has to come here to explain. Two - and it's not to go into conspiracy theories; I repeat, it's not to go into conspiracy theories - does anyone imagine that an American medium unravels the information that, perhaps, the authors of the 11-S were CIA confidants? What would happen? Donald Trump would give explanations. Nothing has happened here, the newscast has devoted more minutes to whatsapp emojis than to this. We call for a commission of inquiry and the appearance of the director of the CNI, and above all a law of democracy, an improvement of democracy. Let there be no more than seven Altsasu boys in prison for the broken ankle of a civilian guard and five convicted rapists on the street! [[Applauds]] Refugees. Let's get closer to Carola Rackete and less to Salvini. It is a veritable indecency that you threaten humanitarian ships with fines for saving lives. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. I have the enormous honor and responsibility to represent a party with eighty-eight years of unspoiled history. [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] Calm down, I'm not from PP. Impolite. With a president shot by fascism, with a president imprisoned for defending Catalonia's independence, with a secretary general in exile for defending Catalonia's independence, with a hundred charges declaring against Marchena for defending Catalonia's independence. Do not underestimate our strength and our determination, ladies and gentlemen; do not underestimate our strength and our determination. We hope for the best of you; we hope for the best of you, but we are prepared for the best. We are the fruit of many defeats, but we are also the seed of all victories. [[Applauds]] We came from an extraordinary electoral cycle in which we won.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u5	Mr. Rufián, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u6	Thirty seconds, Madam President. In order to reach out to someone, there must be someone. I repeat: to reach out to someone, there must be someone. In order to vote on an agreement, there must be such an agreement. To start walking, you have to start moving. They have 48 hours. History contemplates them. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u7	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, Mr Rufián, I thank you for the tone, I thank you for the change in forms in your speech, and I also thank you for the purpose of it, of building bridges, of enabling Spain to have a government at the end of this week, because, as you have said, there are many issues that are not only suffering neighbours and neighbors in Lavapiés, but also in Hospitalet and elsewhere in Catalonia, and therefore a government is needed as soon as possible in Spain to attend to these social emergencies, and I would like to start there. It is true that, unlike other speakers yesterday, you did talk about social rights, you talked about social justice, you talked about fiscal justice, you also talked about labour reform, you also talked about the need to shelter and protect the synthesists, the long-term unemployed, for whom during the past parliamentary term, in the twelve months that we were at the head of the government, we recovered the unemployment benefit for those over fifty-two years old. He has also talked about issues that unite us as progressive political formations with history. I think that on many occasions what is seen in political formations with history is that we have roots, we have very established values and therefore we know what we can do together and what we cannot do together. Look, in that sense, when you were calling for not blocking, for a government to be formed as soon as possible in Spain because the problems were on the table and they were not disappearing, I would like to use that reflection to answer the question of what I was doing or what I was doing yesterday asking for abstention from both the People's Party and the Citizens' Party. What I do is precisely that, Mr Rufián; what I am doing is appealing to the State responsibility of two parties that in this House, but also in the media, in the public conversation, the only thing they do is to stand up in constitutionalist parties, in state parties, in parties that guarantee that stability of the state, and definitely what they do is, without having any alternative to forming a government other than that which we are proposing from the Socialist Party, to vote against and therefore lead the country to the institutional blockade that we saw yesterday. So that's all I'm asking. I am not asking them for support, I am not asking them to applaud the political project for which I am trying to gain the majority confidence of the House; simply to assume their responsibility as first person, not to disagree, and therefore to promote and facilitate the creation and constitution of a government, nothing more, nothing less. Because for there to be opposition there has to be government; to solve many of the issues that you have put on the table there has to be government, and that is what I proposed yesterday. Secondly, I repeat to you again, as I did with some speakers, from Mr. Married to Mr. Iglesias - I forget Mr. Rivera, because he was in another world - my opinion on whether or not we really mentioned Catalonia yesterday. [[rumors]] I mentioned Catalonia, Mr. Rufián. Yes, of course I do. When we talk about social rights, when we talk about problems of social emergencies, fiscal justice, cases of corruption or the demand for democratic regeneration; or when we talk, for example, about labour reform, a new status of workers, digitisation, the challenge of ecological transition, I am not only talking about a part of the Spanish territory from which Catalonia is abstract; I am also incorporating Catalonia into that political proposal. Now, if we are talking about the territorial crisis arising precisely from the sovereignist pulse that is being lived in Catalonia right now, I would like to say a few things. The first is that we consider - and I have said this on many occasions and I will repeat it as many times as the Catalan question comes out from the rostrum on the part of your group or anyone else - that the problem in Catalonia is a problem of coexistence, that the problem in Catalonia is not a problem of independence. And I liked to hear you say that one of the fundamental premises is that there is a dialogue, that there is a dialogue table, and you have even come to verbalize - and it seems to me that it is a correct and a step forward, Mr Rufián - that you recognise as interlocutors the People's Party and the People's Party, and that you would like to sit at the table, for example, with the only Member who has the People's Party representing Catalonia, Mrs Álvarez de Toledo, or even Mrs Arrimadas, so that we can talk about Catalonia. Look, the party of Catalan Socialists during this parliamentary term in the Parliament of Catalonia proposed the setting up of a dialogue table; a dialogue table in Catalonia, because if we are talking about coexistence as the fundamental factor that is now being called into question by this crisis, what you have to do is to recognize the other part of Catalonia that does not believe in the independence theses, and that it does not embrace the independence drift that you are proposing. So, what would I like you to do? That your group should speak in the Catalan Parliament, at that table of dialogue, with the representatives of the Catalan Socialist Party, which was precisely the first constitutionalist force in Catalonia in the last general elections; that it should speak with the People's Party, that it should sit down to dialogue with Citizens, and above all that you should abandon, together with Junts per Catalunya, one of the main requirements, or rather that requirement - which you do not abandon and which is a very serious problem when it comes to dealing with and dealing with a process of dialogue with you in Catalonia - which is unilaterality, and also that you should abandon that unfortunate phrase, in my opinion, of the President of the Catalonian Government that you would do it again. You have said on many occasions that the problem in Catalonia is a problem of democracy; of course, it is a problem of democracy, it is a problem of which we must respect the laws, it is a problem of which we must respect the status of autonomy, it is a problem of which we must respect the constitutional order. And we will be able to find ourselves, Mr Rufián, if, within the Constitution and within the status of autonomy, we can find ways of resolving this crisis in Catalonia. But the first and main premise that you have to put on the table is, one, to end the unilateral way, to end these manifestations that the only thing you do is fill the public debate in Catalonia with zzobra saying that you would do it again, and two, to sit on the table and be aware that what we have right now in Catalonia as a problem is a problem of coexistence and not of independence. And the data are there, in Catalonia it has been said on many occasions, Your Honor, not only one, two, three, four or five times in recent years, but also in this last electoral cycle to which you have referred. If it is that in Catalonia the citizenry is not only defending and voting agents or political parties and projects that defend independence, but there are other political parties of the same magnitude - and in terms of percentage very similar to theirs - that we are defending other positions. Therefore, I simply ask you to recognize them, to recognize their legitimacy, to recognize their representativeness, and therefore to start talking to them. If you do, I believe that we can certainly find an alternative path to confrontation and the territorial crisis. Look, there have been many readings on the election results of 28 April and 26 May, and in many analyses that are made by different media, even you here in the rostrum have verbalized it, it is said that what the Spanish people have voted has been in reaction to the fear and fear that the People's Party, Citizens and the far right will institutionalize at the level of the Spanish Government what they are doing unfortunately in many cities and in some autonomous communities. I disagree, Your Honor; I disagree. I think that the Spanish people - as I said in my first speech yesterday morning - what they always do is embrace the future, bet on the future, look forward, walk forward and not look back. We represent hope, illusion, we show that things can be done in different ways, that there are alternative paths, that you can grow, but also redistribute the growth of that wealth; that you can tackle the ecological transition without any type of cover and with all solidarity and social and territorial justice; we show that you can do many things that the right-wing for seven years said it was impossible to get started. We have demonstrated this in twelve months with the cooperation of United We can, also of Republican Left and many other forces not only progressive, but also of other kind of nationalism and even with more centerright dyes. I therefore disagree that the Spanish people voted on 28 April simply as a reaction to the emergence of the ultra-right, it is not. He voted for hope, he voted for change, he voted precisely to do things differently, and that is what we humbly did during these twelve months and we are trying to propose to the House for the next four years. It is true that you tell me that we do not have an absolute majority. It's true, we don't have an absolute majority. I am very aware that the programmatic proposal I put on the table in my speech yesterday morning is not going to be fulfilled in a hundred percent, because I do not have 176 seats. The Socialist Parliamentary Group, which supports the government proposal we brought yesterday morning, has 123 seats. What do I propose? I propose that if there is no agreement, because it is very difficult or impossible to materialise what is being proposed by some parliamentary force, all I ask is for the legislature to go ahead and at least begin to respond and resolve many of the social emergencies that Spanish people have. Where will the Socialist Party be, what Socialist Party will be found? Well, look, the Socialist Party that has always bet on coexistence, the Socialist Party that has always bet on social and territorial cohesion, and the Socialist Party that has always bet on exemplaryness, public cleansing and consequently the fight against corruption. I have said this on many occasions: the motion of censure twelve months ago was not a motion of censure to the general policy of the People's Party in many areas, no. It was a motion of censure that originated, a main cause, which was a sentence of the National Court to a People's Party that did not assume its responsibility in cases of corruption that were tried and sentenced. Therefore we will always be from that prism looking for coexistence, safeguarding cohesion and fighting for exemplaryness and cleanliness in public life. We will therefore always defend the general interest. You say that there is indeed a political crisis in Catalonia, which has to be resolved from the point of view of politics, and most likely over the past seven years, unfortunately, by the people who have been at the head of the Spanish Government and also of the Catalan Government, the judicialization of politics has become more important than politics itself. On many occasions you claim that the independence leaders who are now being tried before the Supreme Court are for defending democracy on October 1, 2017, and that is not true, Mr Rufián. They are so precisely because there were things that went on during those bad months for Catalan political history and also for Spanish political history that, supposedly, could be irregularities and illegalities. Evidently what happened on 7, 8 and 9 September 2017 in the Parliament of Catalonia with the laws of disconnection, and consequently with the uncontrolled flight of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia and the constitutional order, deserved the greatest of the blame not only from the judicial point of view, but also from the political point of view, Your Honor, and therefore the question that I would like to transfer to you and your group is whether they have learned something and drawn some conclusion from all that process and from all those moments, because if they have done so we can probably find again a path in which we can understand each other. That obviously - and I have also defended it during the last twelve months - the crisis in Catalonia is going to have to be answered with a vote? No doubt. What is the difference and the main discrepancy between you and us? What we want is for Catalonia to have once again a strengthened self-government and a status of autonomy, and what you are proposing is a little bit more or less than what we are experiencing right now, from the point of view of witnesses, in the United Kingdom: a vote that all it does is separate, disintegrate, confront and consolidate a gap of coexistence that in our opinion is perfectly avoidable if we all put on our side. Therefore will of dialogue all, Your Honor, but how you will understand within the Constitution that we have granted ourselves, within the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia that you have granted yourselves, and without a doubt working for coexistence and for harmony. From there, dialogue table; we have no problem. I also say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that what you will have to do is to launch that dialogue table in the Catalonian Parliament and recognise those interlocutors in Catalonia. It should be remembered that the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, which was, let us say, revised by the ruling of the Constitutional Court, had 90% support from the Parliament of Catalonia, and therefore, Your Honor, probably what you have to do is to forge that consensus with other political forces, not only with the party of the Catalan Socialists, which is the first constitutionalist force after the general elections, but also with the People's Party, even if it is marginal, and with the party of Citizens, even if it is a backward party. [[Rumors]] For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, we will be able to agree with you, but we must be aware that we need this dialogue and dialogue in these two areas: Catalonia and the Spanish State as a whole. If you want it that way we can probably find it for the next four years, I am not going to say the definitive solution, but at least start building the solution that you deserve and need the Catalan and Catalan set, regardless of who you vote for in the electoral processes. I have to tell you, Mr Rufián, that I am grateful that you have made it easier, at least this is what your group has publicly expressed, with the abstention, that the legislature is running and that we have a government in Spain. I hope that other political formations, not only to the left, but also to the right, will take note of that responsibility that I miss in those parties that today are erected as constitutionalist parties and with a sense of state. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Candidate. Mr Rufián Romero, you have the floor for the Republican Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u10	Mr. Sanchez, in part. In the last ten years 800,000 evictions; 750,000 families without income; 30% child poverty; 11 million poor and in some autonomous communities, especially in those such as Extremadura of his colleague Fernández Vara, almost 50% youth unemployment. I'm saying that because they then ask for the application of the 155 as a star measure. That's what makes it dangerous, which threatens coexistence in a country and not an urn. [[Applauds]] And I say this because it really hurts me, Mr Sánchez; it hurts me that a socialist, an important representative of a party with historical acronyms, such as those of his party, says that voting threatens coexistence. I think it's funny at least. Incoherence. We do believe that it is incoherent for you, that you, in particular yesterday, to devote more time to indirectly asking for support from PP and Citizens than to refer to the Unidad Podemos and to us. We find it incoherent, especially when you are objectively asking something, I repeat, of Mr Rivera and Mr Married - and I am little suspected of being condescending with them - that you, on principle, did not do and once again addressed the General Secretariat of the PSOE. To me, as a leftist republican, I would have liked much more than that time to try, in quotes, to seduce the comrades of the Unidad Podemos and us than to try to receive an indirect vote from PP and Citizens. Dialogue table in the Parliament of Catalonia. Indeed, it already exists. I have the honour to share a parliamentary group with a Member who was there very recently, Gerard Gómez del Moral, who negotiated that dialogue table. You know what he told me? They don't go, but they don't go either the PP or Citizens or sometimes you, which sometimes we stay alone. Anyway, I think we are facing a conflict, a political problem of a scale that requires different things to be done. Here, for example, I propose - I have already done so in campaign and I repeat a meeting every month in Barcelona and Madrid, continue with the spirit of Pedralbes. Something extraordinary happened in Pedralbes. For the first time two governments, Catalan and Spanish, recognized something in writing that you have repeated here on some occasion: that it is a political conflict and that they have to resolve leaders, not judges. It's an extraordinary advance and we bet on it. Unilaterality, Mr. Sanchez. We are not unilateral. Unilateral is giving a shit to people on October 1st, that's very unilateral. [[Applauds]] But, above all, I tell you something that our president and candidate, who should be here today saying it, Oriol Junqueras, has been saying for a long time - what happens is that it doesn't come out much on TV, but it says it for a long time -: We are not unilateral, we are multilateral - I repeat, multilateral - because we are faced with such a huge, enormous political conflict, which has led to such enormous pain and democratic shortcomings that it must be addressed in state institutions, European institutions and international institutions. That's how multilateral we are. I am saying this in case you want to stop repeating the mantra of unilaterality. Respect the Statute. Welcome, because the truth is that they have not fulfilled the additional third of the Statue for almost ten years. And, above all, I remember that famous socialist, Alfonso Guerra - Alfonso Guerra, who already sounds old, old -, boasting, saying: We have brushed the Statue. Welcome to the fulfillment of the Statute. I wish they'd cared sooner. Do it again. 'To do it again' is a phrase that the immense Jordi Cuixart said in front of Marchena, and he said it referring to a concept, as Mr. Iglesias said yesterday, which is not alien to law, to civil disobedience. I'll explain a very brief story to you. In 1978 the neighbors of Torre Baró, which is a very humble and steep neighborhood of Barcelona, protested daily in front of the City Hall of Barcelona because the urban bus did not arrive; and the City Hall of Barcelona told them that it could not arrive, that the urban bus, the public bus could not reach the last, very steep street of that poor neighborhood, Torre Baró. Well, in 1978 Manuel Vital, a neighbourly leader and casual bus driver of Barcelona's 47 line, one night kidnapped a bus and drove it to the last street of Torre Baró. And from that moment on the urban bus, the public bus arrived at one of the most complicated urban and humbled neighborhoods in Barcelona. Nothing happened to him; today he would be in front of the National Court. The question is what has happened to us, what has happened in this country so that we can be like this. Mr Sánchez - I tell you with all sincerity - if you believe that what is happening, that the trial, for example, to eleven independenceists goes from that, you are wrong. Tomorrow can be eleven unionists, tomorrow can be eleven feminists, tomorrow can be eleven humorists, tomorrow can be eleven critical journalists. This is not a trial of independence or Catalan republicanism, this is a regression of the civil rights of all, let us have the flag that we have on the balcony or in the heart, and we must understand it. [[Applauds]] Politicians in prison. I'll be very honest with you too, Mr. Sanchez. I wish it was our thing that our comrades are political prisoners. I wish it was a mantra, a political argumentary, but it's that Amnesty International says so too, and I understand that you're not against Amnesty International. Amnesty International repeatedly calls for the release of Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sànchez, who have been in prison for two years, literally, for getting into a Civil Guard car with permission to dissolve a demonstration. This is barbarity, let's get as we go. And people with very little suspicion of independence, such as Martín Pallin, judge emeritus of the Supreme Court, or Pérez Royo, professor of constitutional law, says they are political prisoners. I repeat, Mr Sánchez, really, that if you think that what you can get to spend this autumn by doing so can be managed, you are wrong. What may come to pass this autumn complicates the lives of all of us, especially us, you, the United We can, to the left abertzale, the comrades of Junts per Catalunya, all of us. The only ones who will applaud us with our ears our fights are the triplets, the only ones. I'm asking you a question to finish. Mr. Sánchez, why is it better to abstain from the PP and Citizens than Mr. Churches feels in a ministry? Why? Why is it better? Why is it better for this bench on the right to refrain from Mr. Iglesias sitting in a ministry? And, Mr. Churches, why is it better to give the trills you feel in a ministry a second chance? Why? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Rufián, ladies and gentlemen of Esquerra Republicana, first of all, I would like to thank you once again for reconsidering the 800 000 evictions that have taken place during these years, for talking again about child poverty, for talking again about the 8 million long people who are currently suffering from social exclusion in our country, and even for reminding you that, in fact, the status of autonomy and its additional provision must be complied with precisely in everything that has to do with public investment. These were some of the proposals we put forward in the General Budgets of the State - which you voted against together with the right and which, therefore, could not materialise and precipitated the early elections on 28 April - with a clear objective, such as, first of all, to start drawing up those social budgets that need not only Catalonia but Spain as a whole. Therefore, from that point of view, Your Honor, I do not have much more to add. We want to comply with the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia and also to form a parliamentary majority that leads and channels this budget proposal for the country as a whole and, without a doubt, also for Catalans. Secondly, you are talking about the dialogue table in the Catalonian Parliament. Indeed, it does exist. They have misinformed him: the party of Catalan Socialists has gone to those meetings whenever they have been convened by the President of the Generalitat of Catalonia, Mr Torra. As you well know, Mr Torra on many occasions seems to me to have been two or three, not many more, the meetings of that table that have been held in the Parliament of Catalonia has never withdrawn from it its challenge to follow a unilateral path. If different parliamentary groups feel in the spirit of beginning to channel the crisis of coexistence in Catalonia and start to dialogue and the proposal that does nothing more and nothing less than the President of the Generalitat of Catalonia is to maintain unilaterality as a challenge not only to the State but to the political forces that do not think like you at that table, you will understand that at least we have some doubts about whether or not you really want to dialogue with those forces in Catalonia. But in any case, I do not have to speak for them, for the PSC, for Citizens or for the People's Party in Catalonia, and that is the question, Mr Rufián. When you raise the question of dialogue with the Spanish State or with the Spanish Government, what you do is, first of all, self-execution in the spokespersons of a single Catalonia, and that is not true. If you want to speak with the Government of Spain, the first thing you have to do is to ensure a broad enough consensus in Catalan society and that it is cross-cutting, which you do not represent right now when you come up to the rostrum, Your Honor. So, what's the problem? There is a problem of origin, there is a problem of dialogue, because you are not representing either 55% of Catalan society or 50% of Catalan society. Talk with the commons, with the PP, with Citizens, with the PSC, see if there is a will to be able to reach a transversal agreement with all of them, and then, when you go up to the rostrum and speak on behalf of Catalonia, perhaps we begin to be aware that you represent beyond what you try to represent from that rostrum. I think it is very important that you take the dialogue in Catalonia seriously and that you recognize the legitimacy of other political forces, not just those that defend the sovereignist process or not just those, such as the United We can or the common ones in this case, that defend the right to self-determination. From there, I think we can find a solution to this crisis. Unilaterality, Your Honor, indeed, is imposing laws of disconnection. Unilaterality is not to heed the decisions of the Constitutional Court or the repeated warnings of the lawyers in the Parliament of Catalonia, who were telling them during those harsh months of 2017 that you were imposing a vision of Catalonia through laws that had nothing to do with the Statute of Catalonia or the constitutional order. That is unilateral, and I say it to you with complete peace, Your Honor, so that it will remain and be recorded in the Journal of Sessions. We want dialogue, we want it within the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. But, Your Honor, if the message that Catalan independence conveys is that they are going to do it again and that they do not, therefore, renounce the unilateral path, I must tell them, calmly but also in a determined way, that the Spanish Government will defend constitutional order, territorial integrity and national sovereignty. [[Applauds]] You say we have discrepancies with United We can. It's obvious. Yesterday, Mr. Asens expressed them from this rostrum. As for this state crisis, you agree more with them than with us as to what the formulation is. You say: Voting is never a democratic problem. Of course, not if it is based on the rules, on the laws that we have given ourselves, that we have voted not only at the Catalan level but also at the level of the whole of Spain. Therefore, from that point of view, I believe that the discrepancy is fundamental. Ask the British, especially the young people who are protesting against those who, on the basis of lies and fallacies, have been dividing, confronting British society and causing an implosion of the constitutional order in the UK, as we are seeing right now. In any case, Your Honor, of course I agree with you that this is a problem of democracy, it is not a problem of independence; it is a problem of coexistence and, therefore, it is a democratic problem. But, look, you're referring to some non-governmental organizations that, honestly, have not said it as you say. In any case, let's go to what the courts say, to what the judgments say, to the best of courts that you don't give any legitimacy to, such as the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has reproached them very repeatedly, not only with evidence but also with arguments, that you, in fact, tried to break the state, causing a serious crisis, using the institutions of all the citizens of Catalonia as your own. And this is the problem, Your Honor, that you used the institutions, which are of all Catalans, not only those who vote for you, to make and pose a challenge to the State, to territorial integrity and to the constitutional order. But not only the Constitutional Court, also the European Court of Human Rights, Your Honor, has declared that it was necessary to defend the legality of the protection of the rights and freedoms of third parties from abuses committed by the independent parliamentary majority in the Parliament of Catalonia, and has made it clear that a political party can campaign for a change in the law or in the legal or constitutional structures of the State provided that it uses legal and democratic means and proposes a change compatible with fundamental democratic principles. This has been said by the European Court of Human Rights, as has also been said by the Court of Justice of the European Union, and as the European Parliament has repeatedly said. Therefore, Your Honor, I agree with you: it is a democratic problem, it is a problem of coexistence, it is not a problem of independence. Let us begin to speak, let us begin to dialogue, but on a common basis. And those common foundations we do not create either you, I, the Republican Left or the Socialist Party, are much broader. It is called the Spanish Constitution and is called the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Rufián, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, a previous warning, with due respect: do not assume our abstention. We have literally said this: You have no more than forty-eight hours to agree, for us it will not be, and we ask you once again to assess to your rightful extent the enormous effort of generosity that is being made here today by this group to which I have the honour to represent. Constitutionalists. There's something that would always squeal on me. Politics is a bit like music: if there's something that's uncomfortable, it sounds bad to you. I would always like to say that you - not so much you, especially PP and Citizens, but also you - are constitutionalists, as if you wanted to separate: Article 47, Article 128, Article 50, beautiful and social articles and gestures that we have read. I remember perfectly listening to many representatives of the United Nations We can and, of course, of the Republican Left reading literally, textually articles of the Constitution of which you do not remember so much, and, instead, 155 know it from memory. There isn't as much constitutionalist as there is very hypocritical. Mr Sánchez, I will make it very clear to you to try to break that mantra that we do not recognize, in quotes, the other part of Catalonia. Nor can a republic be imposed, nor can autonomy be imposed - I repeat, nor can a republic be imposed, nor can autonomy be imposed - with 50% of the population against, respectively. So, I repeat, we like each other more or we like each other less, we like each other more or we like Mr Borrell less, we are doomed to understand each other, condemned. Let's stop giving speeches for the hemeroteca and hand over this conflict to our children. Seek a consensus, ask for a consensus. It already exists. 80% of the population of Catalonia - its voters, its voters, its voters and its voters - is asking to vote, to resolve this political conflict in a ballot box, not in sticks. [[pointing out to the parliamentary groups Socialist, Popular, Citizens and Confederal of the United Podemos-In Comú Podemos-Galicia in Comú, respectively]] And here there are people who are very opposed to Catalonia's independence, to Catalonia's self-determination, but they are democrats and they know perfectly well that clubs and power and media machines are not solved. Crisis of coexistence - with this I am finished, Madam President -. Do you know what causes a crisis of coexistence? The king's speech on 3 October justified the clubs of 1 October. Do you know what causes a crisis of coexistence, and, I repeat, not by entering into conspiracy theories? That a means of communication supposedly exposes the relationship between the perpetrators of one of the biggest attacks in this country and the CNI. And it's not for coming into conspiracy theories, though it's worth explaining. But above all, what endangers coexistence, I repeat, is an eviction and not an urn. You have started the house on the roof; even worse, on the fireplace: I say it on the smoke. Please agree; it will not be for us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u15	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Obviously, I do not believe that you are going to abstain. I simply echoed the resolution of the Republican Left Executive. In any case, you do state that you can abstain this week; forty-eight hours you have given the Socialist Party and the Group of the United Nations Podemos. I would simply like to say that this request materializes and shows something quite recurrent in yesterday's debate, and that is that United Podemos and the Socialist Party, unfortunately, do not have 176 seats and we need other parliamentary forces to support us. I simply wanted to convey to you that I do not believe that you are going to abstain but that, in any case, I am grateful for the tone, the ways and the ways in which you can make it easier for a government in Spain to get the legislature going. Secondly, there will be time to talk again about the constitutional commitment you and other parliamentary forces have. The only thing I am saying to you, Your Honor, is that we proposed budgets - which you voted against together with the conservative forces, which precipitated the elections on 28 April - where there were many or at least quite a few initiatives linked to the fight against evictions, the fight against child poverty, the fight against social exclusion, fiscal justice, etc., etc. If you put before this legislature all those objectives to others who cannot find the consensus, the support or the rapport of the Socialist Parliamentary Group or the Government of Spain, such as the vote for the self-determination of Catalonia, we will be able to find ourselves; if not, Your Honor, what I say is that we will continue to have the same problem that we had before 28 April. With us, within the Constitution, with law and dialogue, you will be able to count. But outside the Constitution, outside the Statute of Autonomy, unfortunately, Mr. Rufián, there will be nothing. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. No one escapes - the first - that the situation is serious, the moment is transcendent, but let me begin my intervention today with a well-known joke. It's probably not the best you've heard, but I think it comes to the case to describe what's happened since April 28th, since election day, or, who knows, I'd rather say even to describe what's going on right now. They're two friends who go to the mountain determined to look for mushrooms. Each with his basket, they go through the haydo, and in this one of them draws the attention of the other and says to him, "Hey, come, come, look what I've taken here!" And the companion comes up and notes that what his friend so euphoricly picked up is a Rolex, a very expensive Rolex, and outraged to let him go: Hey, you, what are we, mushrooms or Rolex? And you just have to be what you have to be. The objective of any negotiation is to reach an agreement, in this case an agreement on the investiture of a President of the Government and on a programme that may or may not include a formula of composition of the Executive but, in any case, clear objectives to know where he wants to move. Agreements are always questionable, they can be better or worse. You know what Fuller said: All horses think their load is the most heavy. It always seems to each party that it could have obtained more. But it's about picking mushrooms; sometimes it's going to be better and they'll be exquisite perretxikos, and others, niscalos or cardo mushrooms, better or worse, depending on the tastes and expectations, but what you can't pretend to do when you go out to the mountain is to despise the arrow rolls that could be collected and dedicate themselves to the vain quest to find a Rolex in the forest, that Rolex that represents the absolute benefit, the achievement of all your positions on the negotiating table, the search for the summum of profits regardless of whether the empty basket is brought back. To start looking for the Rolex is to forget the important thing to achieve the impossible, and indeed to some it gives us the feeling that in just three months the perspective has been lost. Have we forgotten how we got to these elections? Have we forgotten the photo of Columbus, with an electoral campaign in which it seemed that the winning option was to be almost indefatigably the tripartite between the People's Party, Citizens and VOX, with a tension in the political environment driven from the right and based on imposing, rather than dialogue? Do we no longer remember the statements, do we no longer remember the electoral debates? Citizenship responded by voting massively in these elections and its message has been clear: it does not want the right-wing tripartite that had been offered in the campaign as an alternative; nor does it give absolute majority to anyone. Governance therefore passes through dialogue and the necessary agreement of the political forces, and that is what the majority of voters expect in terms of the results, and that is what on 29 April, after the election day, we thought almost all would happen. With municipal and autonomous elections ahead it could be understood that it was expected on June 15, the day of the constitution of the municipalities, to externalize the agreement. Development, in apparent logic, seemed clear. In fact, it seemed that, after having spent an election campaign with the real risk of a PP tripartite, Citizens, VOX ruling, the memory was going to make us all get to work and the government could be constituted for the last week of June or first of July, I thought. It was logical and predictable. It wasn't like that. The Basque Nationalist Party obtained 38% of the votes of the autonomous community overall in the last elections; in Vizcaya, for example, 43% and, despite that percentage, much higher than any group in this House, we have not hesitated at a moment to enter into coalition agreements in all the Basque institutions, even in which we draw 43% - more than 43%, 43.1% of the votes - because the agreement strengthens society, generates democratic muscle, there is plenty of tacticism and regatta in the short term. Is the disagreement that has already occurred going to be repeated here, causing from the beginning a budget to fail among those who had put, at least in image, an alternative government through the motion of censure? Do we no longer remember the time that is being wasted in making decisions that are transcendental for citizens in the economic, social, infrastructure, energy and educational fields? Decisions are no longer taken as the Government is on the most provisional basis. The Autonomous Communities were not responding to their claims, there was no dialogue with the central Government. The State administration, except for that which works out of pure inertia, is paralyzed. No decisions are made, no policy has been made for months, not to mention the millions of European funds that are being wasted by not pushing the projects for which they were committed. And in the meantime, time goes on and others continue to make decisions that affect us in Europe and elsewhere. The basket cannot continue to be empty in search of the Rolex chimeric. I do not want to sound harsh, but if, after all the past and the response of the voters with the big problems to be tackled, with an economy that is beginning to work, but on which clouds spread, with more than 32 % of the citizens who in the CIS last June said that politics is the second biggest problem after unemployment, with a gas-fired administration, if in these circumstances there is no agreement and a new electoral call is provoked between mutual mistrust and short-range tactics, it is perhaps that the main protagonists of this disagreement will have shown that they are not worthy of the responsibilities they believe to be called upon to take up. It seems to me that I am not the only one who has bewildered the candidate's negotiating strategy, at least he is being sinuous in his development. I must confess that I am drawn to the continuing appeals made by the candidate himself to abstain from those who have manifested themselves not as adversaries, but as irreconcilable political enemies, those who have come to call him mafioso or indecent, of liar, of wanting to sell to the good people one and, the other, of coup, of illegitimate president, of guilty of high treason to the country and even of felon. I mean Mr. Rivera and Mr. Married respectively, as you may have guessed. You have forgotten the manifesto and the photo of Columbus of both of you along with Mr. Abascal. To pretend that the abstention of some of them gives way to his Government does not solve the fundamental problem, because we would find ourselves around the corner, there in October, without an agreement that could arm a majority around the budget, essential for the survival of the new Government; if, on the other hand, what he seeks, after obtaining his investiture, is to partially support his Government on the basis of what those political leaders proclaim today, I fear he will not be able to count on us. The inflexible and backward political approaches in the area of freedoms and their opposition to dialogue and to the agreement between different people would lead to the search for the problems to be faced. The choice of partners is not baladé when it comes to developing policies in one direction or another and you must choose, Mr. candidate, because the country cannot afford a government satisfied with itself believing that it is the wizard of variable geometry when it is actually in the wire. I understand that the situation is complex, that the search for a majority among parliamentary fragmentation is like sailing between stumbling blocks. However, I sincerely believe that you should look to the horizon to contemplate it more as an opportunity than as an impossible one. Using a taurus simile: the great teachers show that they are in the good work with myuras or victorines, not in the face of simple livestock, but in those in which one has to risk. One becomes great and shows what is good when he is able to cope with and seek real solutions to problems that others only want to face from the barrier of boxed phrases and the mere Penal Code, but he must be aware that he has only 123 seats. Your group is the largest in the House, but it must add up, and to add up you have to give in. You cannot expect others to join a contract of mere adherence to what you decide; neither large nor small, among your potential partners, can we do that. Take a flexible and decisive step to the front, without fear, without putting the bandage on before the wound. You value being resilient and resilient. Making a majority around his Government presents a personal challenge, if he dares with it, a challenge that can benefit coexistence and give light to another way of doing politics. It is what has to be a pioneer, there is no map of the terrain on which you venture. On the other hand, there are those who understand politics as a hasty exercise in the assault of power on every occasion. From my experience, I tell you this doesn't work that way. For one to gain positions and the trust of the other, it takes time. A more modest start than the imagined one does not mean that it will be less profitable in the medium term. That search for urgent short-term gains can end in failure, a failure that drags us all together, and I am not talking only about my parliamentary group or other potential third parties, but I am talking about the citizens who supported them and who should go back to the polls, and even the risk that, finally, there will be government policies of a completely different sign. You know that greed breaks the sack. I confess that I do not know the details of the negotiations between PSOE and Podemos, but I think I know enough. Of course, everyone has pressure from many areas and certainly, as has been said, from IBEX 35 - and 45, if it exists - but these pressures cannot be used as an excuse to justify the disagreement. In addition, there may be other types of emergencies, sometimes personal ones. Stability should not necessarily be because someone is in government or because he or she occupies a number of ministries or vice-presidencies. Because we will agree that in a political organization that values the importance are ideas and teams, not concrete people. They both have an opportunity to fill the basket with excellent perretxikos for the benefit of uppercase politics and citizenship. As William George Ward said, opportunities are like dawns, if you expect too much you miss them and probably in September it's too late for dawn. Mr. Candidate, from the point of view of the Basque Nationalist Party there are many outstanding and urgent challenges to be resolved. I'm going to list some of them. We fully agree on the need to definitely address an agreement in the Toledo Pact, this cannot be delayed any longer. It is necessary to secure the public pension system itself in the medium term and it is necessary to do so by providing a fair system, which provides decent pensions, but away from any demagoguery that the system endures everything. The work is already progressing with the progress made in the previous legislature, but it must be completed. In this area, I must point out to you with regard to the Basque statute. As you know, this organic law attributes to Basque institutions, through an agreement with the State, the economic management of the social security system. The State has always refused to sit down and discuss the practical content of this article. It is time for us at least to talk about it in order to try to reach an agreement. An organic law should be for every constitutionalist of enforced compliance, and if the law makes that mention some content will have to have, I say. Well, let's discuss what that content is. We also believe that we must - and you said so - amend labour legislation to reverse the harmful aspects of the latest reform and prepare ourselves for a new economic cycle in which the rise in workers' wages must be addressed. It is unsustainable that competitiveness should be achieved through wage stagnation. We do not believe that this can be the model to follow and less in Europe. This labour reform should also include the promotion of employment for young people as a priority, in conjunction with measures in the field of education, both at university and, in particular, with emphasis on vocational training. In our view, industry must be paramount in economic policy. The years of the crisis were not used as appropriate to create a new economic model in which the industry had more weight. This should be the main lever both to combat unemployment and to ensure future contributions. You said yesterday in your speech that it is necessary to increase spending on R & D+i and we cannot agree more. But what can't be is that I focus exclusively on R & D+i matches in chapter 8, for basic research. If we want it to have an impact on industry and the number of patents to increase significantly, which is in what Spain after all highlights negatively, for that we must prioritize applied research. We recognise that industry is precisely linked in its improvement to the challenges of the energy transition, but it is also the most vulnerable area to them. That is why - knowing how we know where we should go in order to achieve the European objectives in the face of climate change - it is necessary to keep pace with this transition to the appropriate adaptation of industry, so that employment does not suffer from the consequences of inadequate policies. I remind you that the hasty announcements about diesel had practical consequences; we are not a party that usually make alarmist or exaggerated statements, but understand our concern when the automotive sector is strategic in our territory. Automotive accounts for 17% of Basque industrial GDP; there are more than 300 companies that employ some 40 000 people in Euskadi, which make almost half of the state's total components. In our territory the weight of industry is very important; the manufacturing industry is 24%, nothing less, of GDP, but if we add it to related services - such as engineering, etc. - it accounts for 52% of GDP. Therefore, we are not talking about things that won't affect us if we do them wrong. You said that Europe recognized the strategic framework of its energy and climate government as the most complex and rigorous. All right, but be careful to be the vanguard of the new being a country with weak economic structures, to see if by running a lot we crash. Now, Mr President, we are in a moment of transition in the energy field, we are certainly passing from primacy or power to power. This can't be done overnight. Moreover, we can cause a loss in the economy and, above all, in the necessary investments to be made for that transition and, frankly, some measures being taken by some regulators and on which your Government should perhaps say something - and you have said nothing - are a little worrying. This is not a day-to-day jump, this has to be paused, and sometimes gives us the feeling that there are concrete, practical signs. We will talk about this if you want to slow down at another time - the minister tells me yes - you know what I am talking about; we will talk about this more concretely, but sometimes it gives the feeling that we want to jump into the void without realizing that those steps have immediate consequences. The scope of public freedoms is another outstanding challenge. They are aware of our willingness to amend the so-called Law gag, in fact the text of our proposal for a law served as the basis for the reform that finally failed during the previous legislature. It is now time, Mr. candidate, to amend the Official Secrets Act of 1968; the secrecy in which this country which presumes to be modern is inadmissible. That law must be approved in our environment with a classification for years. It was his party that consciously and alimonously with the People's Party and Citizens sine die a reform of that law which, presented by our group, had been taken into consideration by the House. I have to say that the PSOE amendments were the most retrograde of all those tabled and I am confident that this attitude will be changed in this next parliamentary term. For us, infrastructure is socially and economically fundamental, among which the so-called Basque Y is essential not only for the autonomous community, but for all the territories belonging to the Atlantic axis. Frankly, we are disappointed at the difficulties and delays that have occurred over what has been agreed between the Basque Administration and its Government. A last failure occurred a couple of weeks ago - we find ourselves with one more surprise -: do not tell me that it is not surprising that this happens knowing that we are on the eve of the investiture. At least, we'll agree that it's an inappropriate fact. This is a priority work of the European institutions, for which millions of European awards are lost due to the lack of co-financing and diligence of the State, and this cannot continue as there is a timetable to be completed. As you know, respect for autonomous competences is an area that we see as fundamental in whether or not to support public policies and legislation. You committed yourself with the Basque Government to a timetable for transfers of the outstanding powers of the Statute of Gernika. I have to say that this timetable is already behind schedule, but it is clear that the Spanish structural problem goes much further. The ruling of the Statute of Catalonia was one before and one after in the interpretation of the jurisdictional framework by the Constitutional Court, which has brought obvious legal uncertainty. The State's practice of permanently resorting to autonomous measures was giving rise to the problem in the courts, when its solution should not go beyond the political sphere in most cases. In fact, sometimes problems are generated where there are no problems, problems are generated with autonomy where there are no problems. Let me give you an example: the Basque Autonomous Community had competence to regulate its scholarship systems freely. For decades - decades - this fact had not posed any practical problem; suddenly the Advocate of the State, with the People's Party, decides to resort to that power of the Basque authorities - it is already known that the difference is not seen with good eyes by some - although, as I say, there was no practical problem. Upon entering his Government and being his former Minister of Education of the Autonomous Community, we ask him to have enough sensitivity to withdraw the appeal; they did not do so, and the court, of course, has cut the Basque competition. It is an example that some will consider anecdotal, but that gives the measure of an attitude that is usual and that generates continuous unnecessary problems totally. So many problems are created that today this one goes beyond, because one has never wanted to address reality: that in Catalonia and in Euskadi there are two societies that are plural, yes, but that mostly they see themselves as a nation. It is necessary, Mr President, for your Government to face this situation with serenity, but also with realism and boldness. The solution - you have said it on more than one occasion - is not judicial, but political. Therefore, let me tell you that I do not understand your insistence on talking about Article 155 over and over again over the last few weeks, pointing out it as a fundamental difference not to admit, for example, a coalition with Podemos, implying that it contemplates it as a formula to be applied; further, considering that it needs, more than probably, at least the abstention of the Catalan forces to succeed with the investiture. Either you're gambling, or it's a bargaining excuse, or you like to tempt luck, or you don't really look for your investiture; you're disconcerting sometimes. I can give you a lot of praise, I think it has many virtues, but frankly this sinuous and disconcerting attitude for many during the last few months I cannot praise you. There is a problem to be solved and it must be solved politically. What we expect from you is dialogue, imagination and courage to seek political solutions, knowing that you have your limits, but also that there are millions of citizens calling for change. And the same thing I ask you for the reform of the Basque Statute: the real will to agree between different people. I assure you that we do not want to impose anything, and even if we wanted to do so, it would not do us any good when the text came to the Courts, but we ask you not to close absolutely to the requests made by the majority of the Basque Parliament; a majority that is repeated over and over again. There are more challenges ahead, I don't have time to list all of them, but I do want to refer to one unique one that encompasses the previous ones, and it is Europe. Europe is changing to forced marches, we are in a moment of transition that will define the correlation of forces and what the Union intends to be of the greatest. We are Europeanists, we have always been, and you can count on us for the tasks you will undertake. Europe seems to have finally learned that it must take a leading role with a more pronounced profile of its own on the world stage and that, at the same time, it must address the structural tasks that should have been arranged for a long time. For example, to address the necessary reform of the Dublin Convention, so as to respond effectively and humanely to the challenge of immigration. The new President of the European Commission made a speech which, from our point of view, must be recognised as courageous and innovative; a bid for more Europe, for the establishment of a European minimum wage and for other advances in social protection; in short, for the defence of what has always been a European hallmark: social Europe. We cannot forget that in the new multiannual financial framework, which is already knocking on the door, new priorities will be decided in line with an economy and society that looks definitively at the twenty-first century, and in this change, as in all, there is risk and there is opportunity, but for this it is necessary to be there from the very beginning and with a constituted government and with clear ideas. By the way, you spoke of Europe as an example of cooperation and participation by individuals, regions and States; as an example of sharing sovereignty and a lack of need for borders. Certainly, and that is why, Mr. candidate, it is also necessary to share sovereignty at the internal level of the State and to allow it to actually be projected abroad as well. We want to participate in this new European project and we want to do it directly in a natural way, so we need to empower and boost spaces for direct participation at European level. Europe can help you to pacify the problems of Spanish institutional structure, it can - in fact, in my opinion - be part of the solution, but for that we must take steps from the state itself. On the other hand, Mr. candidate, you were talking about respect for this Parliament as an argument for unlocking your investiture, because in this way you could start working - Parliament itself -. I hope that, if elected, in the implementation of its policies it will have the same respect and definitely banish the habit of passing decree-laws absolutely unjustified by the content and by the lack of urgency. After these reflections, what will the PNV vote be? [[Pause.-Rumores.-Mr. Esteban Bravo drinks water.-Laughter]] Let's get to the bottom of it. [[Laughter]] The truth, Mr President, candidate, is that you have not made much effort to achieve it, you have assumed that our vote was going to be positive; not only you, but also the vast majority of the media. Since their supposed security they have thought that why get wet beyond good words if we end up giving the yes for institutional responsibility. It is true, it is true that responsibility for citizenship weighs on us. What an irony!, right?, so patriotic in the Chamber to which the word Spain is filled and the PNV is supposed to be more institutional than to them; to the band, which Mr Rivera says; it says: the band; today it has also said it from the seat many times. [[Sir.]] And yes, of course, it happens to me too that when I look at Mr. Rivera, when I look at you, Mr. Rivera, every time I see you I also imagine you in a band, but in your case in a band of mariachis, always giving the note from the rostrum and the serenade from the seat continuously. [[laughs]] [[Applauds]] Yes, yes, responsibility weighs on us, institutional responsibility weighs on us; we believe in the exercise of politics as an instrument to solve problems, not to generate them. We believe in respect for the different, in agreement with him, but they have to put more on his side; they haven't even called us in the last two weeks. See that you have it easy, see that you have it easy, and yet you have not been able to go beyond generalities and good words. As I have pointed out before, there are fundamental issues for us and previously agreed that are either paralysed or are affected by changes in terms of what has been agreed. I said earlier: who should look for alliances is you, this cannot be an accession contract. They must also take into account that the competition of very different forces means that what they agree with a political force cannot go beyond the lines of the other potential partners. Your investiture, Mr. candidate, should not be used only for you to be elected, no; your investiture should be used to articulate a majority around the challenges I have pointed out to you earlier and to make a policy that seeks to relax the political climate, as well as to foster a new model of relations in the State. We know this isn't going to happen overnight, but you have to start laying the foundations and you, along with all of us, have a great chance if you're brave. I offer you our extended hand to do so, our vote today Tuesday, therefore, will be abstaining. In any case, Mr Sánchez, if elected, I wish you the best of luck, and you know that you will always have in my group a willingness to dialogue and to agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban Bravo. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr Esteban, for your intervention in the tone, no doubt, but also in the content because I think you are the first intervener at least talking - also a little bit Mr Rufián de Esquerra Republicana - about yesterday morning's investiture speech, enters at least some of the contents. Unfortunately, we did not find that example in other interventions yesterday. Anyway, I really appreciate the tone. You have made a first intervention talking about agreements, the need that we actually have to reach an agreement, that the Parliamentary Group has 123 seats, that we do not have 176 seats, and that we therefore not only need to propose, but we need to talk to all the parliamentary forces with which we can eventually forge or build a parliamentary majority. Believe me, honestly, that's what I've been doing for these two long months, Mr. Esteban. That's what I've tried to do with little success, but I've tried to do it. Look, I started the dialogue, the reflection and the conversation with the United Parliamentary Group We can say that the most reasonable proposal - I think so, although there are some discrepancies that we have on issues that you have also raised from the rostrum - that the best was a Socialist Party government with the support of the United We can from outside, as has happened during the past twelve months. I was told that this was not the right proposal for them. I have set up a government of cooperation, which is not something that does not exist in other parts of Europe because it happens, for example, in Denmark and Portugal, but it is not something that has convinced them either; until, in the end, I have come to talk about a coalition government for the first time in the history of democracy in our country, a coalition government with the United States. Therefore, you will be able to recognize me at least that I have tried, that I am trying, that I have reached out and that I want to share the Council of Ministers with a parliamentary force which is to the left of the Socialist Party, for the first time in the history of democracy, and it is a parliamentary force which does not guarantee me an absolute majority, Your Honor. Finally, you will be able to criticize me for the null and void success of these talks, but not at least that I have tried, Your Honor. Among other things, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party are centuries-old parties. Mr Rufián used to refer to his history, but it must also be done to the history and life of the Basque Socialist Party, the Basque Socialist Party, and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. In those agreements that you previously referred to in the parliaments or even in the general meetings, also in the municipalities or at the level of Euskadi, with whom are you ruling? With the Socialist Party! We are a reliable party, we are a party that knows how to look at the general interest, we are a generous party, we are a responsible party, we are a reliable partner, we are a partner who when he says he wants to enter the Government with you he does not say that he enters the Government with you because he does not trust you, and because thanks to us you are going to make a series of policies; we are a partner who knows perfectly well what the differences are between vetoing and imposing and we know where the general interest is and how we can materialize that general interest. Then, Your Honor, what I tell you is that we share with you the vocation of understanding, our willingness to reach agreements and to reach out in this case to United We can because I have already chosen, Your Honor. When you spoke at the end of your speech about institutional responsibility, about the contradiction of listening to parliamentary groups in the conservative bench taking beatings on Spain and that in the end institutional responsibility we find it in nationalist parliamentary groups, as is your case or, for example, in sovereignist groups such as the Republican Left, that is the great contradiction that I believe must be underlined, of the conservative bench, which does not abstain and does not facilitate the formation of a government. But does that mean I'm not clear where my preferences are? Well, I've said it publicly! Not only from the rostrum, but also outside. The preferred partner with whom I want to cooperate and govern is United We Can, and with you too. I've said it clearly, I haven't hidden my letters, they're on top of the table and unravelled, clearly. However, we must make a government possible, Your Honor, a government possible. Look, we need to talk about content, we need to talk about programs and not so much who's going to take the blue seats. Moreover, I will tell you one thing, if in the end I come to a government agreement with United We can, the ministers who sit on this bench will not be ministers or ministers of the Socialist Party or of the United We can, will be ministers and ministers of the Government of Spain, of a progressive, ecological, feminist and European government, which has been mandated by Spanish citizens. [[Applauds]] Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary - and you have said so, to put aside this from parliamentary arithmetic - but you too are doing the same, calling for support for the People's Party to the Basque budgets and also asking for support for the Basque budgets to the United Nations. Of course, we have to make the need virtue. As Mr Rufián said, it is parliamentary mathematics that we have and, therefore, we will have to look to different sides to be able to carry out issues that not only affect from a sectoral point of view to a large part of the policies that we can share left or center parties, such as yours, but that in central elements of state policies, Mr Esteban, we will also have to talk to the People's Party. Or what do you think that, for example, the territorial crisis in Catalonia is going to be able to resolve without us being able to include the second party of the country in the solution contest? That is like saying that in Euskadi a solution can be found for the renewal of the Statute of Gernika without having the Socialist Party of Euskadi. Therefore, I am not doing anything other than what you are doing in the Basque Country, I am simply identifying where are the issues on which I can understand myself for ideological reasons and on other issues where even on account of State responsibility, beyond parliamentary arithmetic, I have to look at the conservative bench. A different question is, Your Honor, that right now what we have met in the People's Party is a regression towards neo-centralist theses of a People's Party that looks more like the People's Alliance of Principles of Democracy than a conservative centre-right party in Europe. This is the reality. What does that have to do with the influence the far right may have on its entry into the Congress of Deputies? Maybe. Can it have to do with the influence they may have on different autonomous and local governments? Undoubtedly, too. But I think it has a lot to do mainly with the inconsistency over the absolute lack of a political project for Spain by the People's Party, which is the main opposition party. But does that mean that I have to give up state policies on understanding myself with the PP? Of course not. And I'm sure you'd ask me to get along with the People's Party. Moreover, I am convinced that if you could in the Basque Parliament you would not only ask for support for the renewal of the Statute of Gernika to the Socialist Party of Euskadi but would also ask the People's Party. Another issue is that the People's Party in Euskadi actually has the necessary autonomy - I mean Genoa, right now - in order to be able to mark its policy and its preferences regarding this renewal of the Statute of Gernika. Your Honor, we are doing nothing other than what you are doing in relation to the central elements of coexistence in Euskadi; the same thing we are doing in Spain, looking from progressive positions, with a preferred partner, who is United We can, towards the whole parliamentary arc, for responsibility of State, I insist, for responsibility of State. And I think two games like yours and mine understand it perfectly. But the ability to agree, the reliability and the search for general interest in Euskadi you find them in the Socialist Party of Euskadi and we, fortunately, also find them in the Basque Nationalist Party here in these Courts. That is why I would like to thank you and your parliamentary group for their always constructive approach to your speeches. I understand that you must abstain, at least I thank you for not voting that you do not. It is clear that they must abstain because we do not have a parliamentary majority to ensure that this investiture can go ahead. This is obvious, Your Honor. But, in any case, it cannot be shielded from that abstention in which there has been no dialogue with you during these weeks, because there has been, to implement and to carry out what you call the Basque agenda, which has to do with infrastructures, which has to do with transfers and which has to do with other issues that we can share with you, among other reasons because we are ruling with you in Basque. Toledo Pact? Totally agree. On social security transfers? You know that's the main stumbling block we have. Occupational reform? We agree. Industry? We agree with the approach it makes to R & D & i. We are less in agreement on what he proposes on the ecological transition and, above all, on the automotive sector. In yesterday morning's investment speech I was talking about the 2019-2025 automotive plan just to start helping a very important sector of our productive fabric to facilitate that transition to a much more sustainable automotive sector. I honestly believe we have to give clear messages. The private sector is far ahead of the public sector, Your Honor, in regulating this ecological transition. If you talk to the financial sector, if you talk to many companies in the private sector, they all tell you that they take away that ecological transition, which is obvious that we have to walk towards the use of clean and more sustainable energies. Therefore, what the public sector has to do at least - it is something that has not happened in the last seven or eight years - is to move a horizon of certainty so that private investors know exactly what legal guarantees they have to address investments that allow them to make this ecological transition in the automotive sector and in many others. Of course we know what you mean when you talk about the National Commission on Markets and Competition. We are talking about something very important: the reduction of the electricity bill for households and, logically, also for companies, which is one of the main production costs, as you well know. Another thing is, as I said in the investiture speech, that we talk about the electrointensive status for companies that are located in northern Spain, in Asturias and in Euskadi. On public freedoms, the Minister of Defence tells me that secrecy has been lifted and the contents of all military archives have been publicized until 1968. This is a historic fact that a socialist government has carried out, but we share that we will have to update the Official Secrets Act during this legislature. With regard to infrastructure, we agreed on the transfer of two railway lines and the last section of the AP-1 motorway, which were pending transfer. In addition, the Basque road map has been completed in April 2019 and, with regard to the Basque Y, the Government has demonstrated its commitment to the development of these major infrastructures for the Basque Country: the operation in 2023, the underground entrance to Bilbao and Vitoria, the southern railway variant, the opening during the twenty-four hours of the Foronda airport and the logistic axis investments in the port of Pasaia. In twelve months, then, we have launched many things together - I would like to remind you that the Joint Committee on Transfers has not met since 2011 - and there are many other things that we will be able to move forward over the next four years. I just want to make a point. Although it is not for me to speak for the Basque Socialist Party, I believe that it is a loyal partner in what represents the renewal of the Statute of Gernika and we would like to see this renewal not entail the loss of many opportunities to respond to the realities of Basque society in the 21st century and that we do not anchor ourselves on much more identity issues that may make living together more difficult. That is the main fear at least that the comrades of the Basque Socialist Party will move me when we talk about the Statute of Gernika. In any case, Your Honor, we believe in the autonomous state, we believe in the Basque self-government. We will defend it - we are doing it in many areas - and I hope that over the next four years we will be able to renew the Statute of Gernika, which is precisely the last one left to renew the set of statutes in our autonomous state. From there, Your Honor, I thank you for the tone and I thank you that at least in this first vote you abstain and I certainly want you to know what we Socialists always do where we have the opportunity, which is to have a dialogue, to have a vocation of agreement and to be very aware that the main thing, which can explain any kind of agreement, is the general interest. No other interest except the general interest. That is what we are going to safeguard from the Government of Spain, as we also do from the Government of Euskadi or from the Government of any municipality of Euskadi, as we are doing with you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Candidate. I have the floor for the same parliamentary group, Mr Esteban Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u22	Mr. Candidate, you say you've searched hard, etc. I don't know who is looking for mushrooms or looking for Rolex or I'm not going to discuss it, but I have a feeling that at least there have been temptations to look for the Rolex. In summarizing what I have said before, it does not seem normal that, after all that we have been through, the situations we have experienced and the clear threat of regressing of freedoms and policies that lay over the country's political majority, has happened and that we are still doing so. I'm not going in to lay down blame or say who's done more and who's done less, but understand that I'm a little confused. You tell me now: How do you not want me to talk to the People's Party, if it is a fundamental party to make state policies? Mr. Candidate, that I understand perfectly; what I do not understand is that I do so in the investiture session. It seems to me that you have teleported yourself the next day of the investiture session already as president, when you have to look for concrete policies, when there are subjects of great importance and great importance on which you have to involve very different ideologies and which have to have a more settled basis. I understand that, but at least it's supposed to be my simple way of understanding it that in an investiture, if you have chosen, as you just said to me: I have already chosen, you have to try to seduce potential partners and not force discussions. The discussion I understand in a situation after the investiture, when policies have to be implemented. Smile at some of Podemos, but I'm not only referring to Podemos, but I'm also referring to other parties. I may have misunderstood him, but I thought I understood that he was saying: You have to move, you have to be responsible, this is the only option. However, in turn it seems that you don't have to do anything. In an investiture you need something more than that, even if it's words or details. I understand that I make that invitation to abstain from the PP and that I want to agree with them, but I understand it at a later stage and for certain matters. Do not compare me with our agreement in Euskadi, because we chose before, reached an agreement, closed it and presented it when we arrived at the investiture: closed with the Socialist Party. It was clear: Let's make a government for this, with these policies and with these people. We did not tell Bildu, for example, that he was going to be part of those policies or that he was going to be part of the government, or Podemos. There's a time when you opt. Then, you need the majorities you need, because, in fact, we may not give you the majority. Even if we were together, we wouldn't give it to him, and he'd need more. Actually, we have to build, but this is like the barn, huh, granite to granite. Yeah, yeah, it's like the castle, you have to ride it. We're going to put in pieces, but if we don't put in the first one, the second one is completely impossible, although I'm going to tell you something about the second piece as well. You were telling me that there has been extensive dialogue with us. I will tell you the question that has been raised: the meeting with Mr Ábalos that of the round that went there for May or June, on the 3rd there was one meeting and on the 8th there was another, first with the vice president and then with another person. We haven't heard anything since the 8th. That's what's happened. We talked, of course. We have obviously spoken to Mrs Lastra and Mr Simancas, but I think you have understood that we were going to vote for her. He says to me: I understand that they abstain. We have already said that we would not vote, and it is true that you are the only option, but you will have to put something on your side to be voted on. He says: I understand that they abstain because no agreement has been reached with Podemos. We are not in the dynamic in which Esquerra and Bildu are. Don't get confused with this. We negotiate and talk. If you come to an agreement with Podemos, we may not speak for us. We will have to see what agreement they have reached with Podemos and they will have to talk to us, at least to talk to us, to see what we are left with for the next government. I think it's logical. All right with the files, but until 1968. I thought I heard 1978, but no. That must be a magic date, right? If I tell him 1981-1982 it would already be like Fellipito Tacatún: I follow. I'm still, when? When are they going to do it? Well, prove it. If it is very easy: you take other laws of official secrets, you see what temporary spaces are used and you will see that all of the Transition should already be declassified, for example. Nor is it that I have a special interest, but it seems to me that it would be the least to be a country that can be approved in terms of official secrets. Transfers. The train was forced by the ruling of the Constitutional Court, two small lines, and that of highways. Yes, we finally did, yes, but it will agree with me that the agreement, which I value - it has been the first Government that has made a timetable for the missing transfers from the Gernika Statute - goes late, even with some of the first deadline. The last is the entrance to Vitoria. You mentioned it. Basque institutions were also involved in financing part of the project. We agree on everything. The Basque Government also has its railway engineering - it is certainly the only autonomous community that has it - and competent people. We come to an agreement on what that entry has to be and it turns out that you are now going and publishing it with prices that are absolutely shot and that for us you are absolutely unjustified. In addition, the valuation was already closed. If we keep talking later, I can tell you more. To sum up, our position is in favour of governability. We have institutional responsibility. Of course, he knows that in all circumstances dialogue will not be lacking, what we do ask him, as well as the other possible partners - I have told him in my previous speech - is that his investiture means not only that, but a new way of doing politics and challenges that should be grabbed by the horns, in front, in order to try to change, with the agreement of many and multiple, all those problems that so far have not been wanted to change. Some-I've told you before - they want to see it from the barrier, with phrases made and with Penal Code. You, if you really want to make a difference, you have to do something different, and your investiture can't be just for you to be named and then we meet a majority that says, "What's going to happen in the next budget?"Are we going back to the decree-laws?Is that a decree-law? It's just that socially it's very interesting, but that part I don't like and that other part neither, but since it's a decree-law I can't make amendments. Are we going back to that policy? I understand you don't. It shouldn't be like that. Therefore, let us build something different in the investiture. He will always find our willingness to dialogue. Our abstention also understands this, in a constructive sense and, of course, in the hope that some things will happen between now and Thursday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u24	Thank you, Madam President. I will answer from the bench, if Mr Esteban does not mind, to tell him that, in fact, we do not lose the hope of being able to reach that agreement, and we have to do so from the new policy, doing new things, obviously, but also with roots, with principles, with values, taking into account the general interest and being aware that this is a party that has always held hands in order to understand itself with many, with different people and political parties with projects completely different from ours. We have done it and we will do it again, without a doubt, with all those who want to understand us and facilitate governability. I disagree with you. I believe that the People's and Citizens' Party, which are the second and third parliamentary groups, have something to say in this process of investiture, and I understand that you do not agree with my reasons, but I can assure you that mine are to ask and put before the mirror Mr Casado and Mr Rivera to guarantee and facilitate the governability of Spain. From there, I insist that I have already chosen and chosen: I want to understand myself with Unidad Podemos, which is the preferred partner. We are seeing whether we can materialise this agreement from the point of view of the Council of Ministers, but I also say to you, Your Honor, that this vocation of understanding and agreement must be made with principles, with values and always taking care of the general interest, because I need, as you have said, a possible government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u25	Thank you very much. Next, we will start with the interventions of the formations integrated into the Joint Parliamentary Group. Firstly, Mrs Borràs Castanyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u26	President, ladies and gentlemen, in my first speech in this rostrum I would like to say that I recently entered politics after 1 October to defend the right to have rights and to achieve it through agreement and dialogue. However, when empty seats are left, such as the four that this House is presenting today, and our colleagues Jordi Sánchez, Jordi Turull, Josep Rull and Oriol Junqueras, who have already been in pre-trial detention for almost two years, who have been pointed out by the UN Working Group on Arbitrary Detentions and Members and Members of Parliament as totally unjustifiable and unjustifiable - even if you hold it and do not amend it - when they are prevented from carrying out their work and with the confidence that their constituents have given them, it happens what the Nobel Prize Jody Williams expressed a few months ago in his appearance in the Committee on Human and Political Rights of the Parliament of Catalonia: that the unity of Spain ceases to be a legitimate project at the time when human rights are being overrunned in order to defend it. To sum it up in a verse of the Persian poet who suffers exile in Mexico, Mohsen Emadí: We are in debt with the absence. Just over a year ago, a motion of censure was tabled in this House, which, in the words of the then-candidate for the presidency of the Government, was the result of very serious events that demanded the recovery of the value and the very meaning of politics. He also said that in that context a country could not be forced to choose between democracy and stability, because there was no greater instability than that emanating from corruption. Well, ladies and gentlemen, replace you with corruption by repression and we will stand at the present moment, because you cannot be forced to choose between democracy and stability because there is no greater instability than that emanating from repression. [[Applauds]] This is what has happened since autumn 2017 with a good dose of PSOE co-responsibility, but with total responsibility since May 2018 during the twelve months of his government. Pedro Sánchez had promised in that speech that his would be a government that would make dialogue his way of doing politics, and that out of all that dialogueal vocation, which today has proved to be more rhetorical than real, a stability programme based on four points would emerge, the fourth being territorial stability to - I quote -. 'normalize relations and initiate dialogue between the Government of Spain and the Government of Catalonia, and build bridges with the legitimate representative of the Government of Catalonia. All this because - I continue with the appointment - it was necessary to find solutions and force consensus in the dramatic hours of the institutional crisis suffered in Catalonia last year.' Well, who reads it and who sees it, Mr. Sanchez. For now, we see that territorial stability has disappeared from its agenda. It turns out it's all stabilized and we haven't noticed. But at the time, you were talking about democratic regeneration measures, committing yourself to urge, as a matter of urgency, the repeal of the most virulent aspects of the law. Yesterday he returned with the repeal, second part, but when he talks about dialogue he has no credibility, Mr Sánchez, because he has neither dialogue nor abrogated. For failing to do so, he has not managed to get Franco out of the Valley of the Fallen, so imagine in relation to Catalonia. It was you who recognized that in Catalonia there was a political problem that we have to solve, page 37 of the Journal of Sessions of May 2018. And after going back to the unconstitutionality appeal filed against the Statute of Catalonia, he used the expression: Of those dusts, these muds. Certainly, Mr Sánchez, the laudazal is a capital, and at the expense of the events that you see on the most immediate horizon - the sentences to the judgment of shame on the one hand and the commissions of inquiry that you will have to open to offer explanations to the citizens of the most serious signs that have been made known about the action of the CNI with the person responsible for the 16 victims of the attacks of August 2017-, I hope that the Spanish State can become angry in an irreversible way and will need much Fairy in order to be able to come out of such a swan and to be able to clean up so much democratic filth. [[Applauds]] Democracy consists in managing the will of the citizens expressed in the ballot box, not in provoking elections to see if the most appropriate outcome is finally achieved, and the outcome of the last elections, Mr Sánchez, does not give him the right to prepotence, the right to rule alone or to reject the pacts, but forces him to negotiate, dialogue and make politics. So, do it; don't look for more excuses and come back with your homework done. Because, do you intend to make you president representing 28% of the citizens while allowing 50% of the Catalan citizens to be despised? During the motion of censure, you asked Mariano Rajoy if he had learned nothing during his years of government. For I remind you, Mr. Sánchez, what Francis de Quevedo said: that pride never comes down from where it rises, but always falls from where it came up. And despite everything, you have tried to humiliate your potential government partners with vetoes and personalisms, although it would be good to remember that it does not humiliate those who want but those who can. And although he has ignored us, he knows that we represent the independent parliamentary group that has a majority in the Catalan Parliament, which holds the Presidency of the Generalitat, and that we are ultimately the list of President Puigdemont, that although you try to violate the rights of more than 2 million Catalans who said that they wanted to be independent from Spain and that still, to this day, they cannot have their representatives in the European Chamber, he has obtained a clamorous victory, also by 28%, and more and more are the MEPs who join in the denunciation for such a gross way of wanting to pervert democracy. I guess that's how you understand politics: instead of seducing, you blame; instead of pacting, you prefer to corner, and instead of convincing, you prefer to coerce. Democracy made in Spain; democracy in demolition. That is why I say to you that we have 155 reasons to vote but not for your investiture. Of course, the existence of prison and exile for leaders such as Marta Rovira, Secretary General of the Republican Left of Catalonia, and part of the legitimate government in exile; leaders chosen by citizens to carry out the referendum, and it must be remembered once again that the convening of a referendum is not a crime in Spain. But also the demand for the payment of millionaire bonds and in peremptory periods for the same facts but by different judicial bodies. The opening of trials for false or distorted judicial accusations that take on the character of persecutions and arbitrary arrests of citizens and that shows that a political objective is being pursued: the pure and harsh repression of the political ideology that promotes the recovery of the national rights of Catalonia; a repression that currently stands at almost a thousand defendants, mayors and political representatives in its vast majority but also civil activists. And in the face of this reality, the powers of the Spanish state in unison - executive, legislative and courts of all levels -, using all the springs of the state, including the head of state, who supposedly is of all, constitutionalists and republicans - let us recall his statement of October 3rd - all, I say, have been conjured up to safeguard the unity of the Spanish nation even at the price of violating fundamental human rights with a disturbingly complicit silence. I told him that I was not going to list the 155 reasons and it seemed that I had decided to do so. You'll excuse me, but the grievance memorial seems to have no end. The words of Mercè Rodoreda now come to my mind when I said: Perhaps the desire for freedom is more than a need for justice. There would be so much to report that I could take up all my time, and it's brief. Let us talk about their programmatic proposals; let us listen to them very carefully yesterday as well. You talked about digital rights, but you didn't talk about human rights; the aspiring president of a state that had no objection to using digital repression on a part of its citizens with total impunity. Know that tweets have been chased, websites have been closed, connections have been made, and you were talking about making a letter of rights and digital duties; for first you would almost have to take an accelerated course in democratic rights. He also spoke of corruption, but he did not speak of the state's sewers; he spoke of equality, social exclusion; he spoke of digital revolution and climate emergency. For the message offered by the Constitutional Court seems diaphanous: if Catalonia wants to fight against climate change, against inequality, against social exclusion, against energy poverty and all the social laws that have been suspended, it will have to be independent, so why should we vote if with you as president the repression has increased, the control of the finances of the Generalitat has been maintained, laws that would allow active policies for citizenship continue to be blocked, representatives of the Catalan delegations abroad are spyed on, the accusation of sedition to political prisoners is maintained, the Catalan elected deputies in Congress and Senate are suspended, they are deprived of social coverage, the entry into the European Parliament of the Catalan elected and a very long one etc., to which should be added the historical demands in infrastructures, roads, ports, airports, the failure for five years in the revision of the financing system. 'Cause it looks like the whole "jumping the law" thing, according to who it is, it's okay, right? But you, Mr Sánchez, have also publicly explained that you need a vice president who does not speak of political prisoners. What I should need is that in this state that I intend to govern there would be no political prisoners, and as the Catalan socialist Maria Aurèlia Capmany wrote: The truth needs to be said because if it is not said it does not exist. We already know that you do not want to recognize this truth or this reality, even though the UN, to which you also quoted yesterday - aligning Spain, aligning Europe and also getting involved in the UN - Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch do, and this is a particular issue - among others, I suppose - that it is an obstacle for you to go to Mr. Pablo Iglesias and Eppur if you move. Because they are, they are political prisoners, and not, as he calls it, democrats elected by the ballot boxes imprisoned for two years and waiting for a sentence for crimes that even the Criminal Code does not contain in the terms that have been presented. If you had a sense of state, you should talk about political prisoners; moreover, you should talk to political prisoners, who would have to sit in the seats where the citizens have located them. I'm done. They have starred in the blockade for three months and now generally asks the House not to block its investiture, Mr Sánchez. Do not pervert the meaning and meaning of words. You've parapeted behind a wall of silence. He wants to rule, but he does not want to listen, and by making deaf ears to reality let me say, with all modesty, that I think he is wrong, because the ability to listen to the other should never be seen as a weakness. If this week's elected president, take advice and listen. If you don't listen to me, if you don't listen to us, maybe listen to a poem by Fabio Morábito that I will allow myself to tell you, Mr. Sanchez. It's called Ears. 'Two ears: one to hear the living / one to hear the dead / the two open day and night / the two closed to our dreams /... / if you cover your left ear you will hear hell / if you cover your right you will hear... I don't tell you / there was a third ear but it didn't fit in the face / we hid it in the chest and started to beat / it's surrounded by darkness /... / it's the ear that saves us from being deaf / when up there our ears fail'. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Borràs. Secondly, Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u28	Egun on, good morning. Feminism, internationalist solidarity, equality, sovereignty, social justice, rights and freedoms, defense of the popular classes, putting life at the center. This is EH Bildu, this is the voice that you don't want to hear and expand, far from the distorted image that you are trying to project on our formation. Euskal Herria Bildu is a political formation with a plural composition, involving women and men from different political backgrounds, who have a national project for Euskal Herria, a project of common society, with the aim of developing it and making it a reality in terms of social equality and solidarity. And yes, we are independentists, and we are in a world of interdependence in which the claims of sovereignty are being produced in cascade but understanding that sovereignty as a necessary tool to build a more just and supportive society. In the four Basque territories of the south, where Euskal Herria Bildu is homogeneously implanted, where we are known and recognized, we are the first municipal force with about 1300 councillors, we have more than 120 mayors and we are the second force in our country, Euskal Herria. We are a political formation, Mr Sánchez, whose support was decisive in the motion of censure that has brought you here this opportunity to be President of the Government. A vote, that of Euskal Herria Bildu, which was also decisive to pass in the Permanent Diputation of this Congress the social decrees that you used as an impulse during the election campaign. We say all this in response to that political apartheid that is bound to censor, and it is because of the fallacy of its approach and its instrumental arbitrariness. I say fallacy because those in Navarre and in the state use it not to dialogue with our formation not only dialogue, but also negotiate and even agree with EH Bildu in other institutions. This has been done by the PSOE, which agreed with EH Bildu on the taxation of Guipúzcoa, the Basque Housing Law or the latest budgets that have been approved in Pamplona. But so has the People's Party, at other times and in the present, which has agreed with us in the Parliament of Gasteiz laws such as the limitation of large commercial areas, the Law on Amendments to the ILPs and numerous other initiatives. Well, given this political apartheid used for convenience, we urge you to stop manipulating citizens and build a future on other keys and other parameters. Because that is precisely what society needs. This act of investiture has a real framework, a framework that places us in the face of enormous challenges at all levels: planetary, in the Spanish state and, of course, also in Euskal Herria. We are living in the midst of a systemic crisis, with alarming levels of social inequality, with climate change threatening the present and future of the next generations and also with a process of continuous devaluation of democratic systems by the action of financial nuclei and lobbies, those so-called markets, which condition governments emanating from the will of the people. In addition, in the Spanish State, specific elements are added to this general crisis. The Spanish State is a state with a collapsed pension system, with a productive model dependent on tourism, with levels of unemployment and precariousness that are record in Europe, with a crisis in its territorial model that is causing a major democratic involution and, as a result of all the above, a chronic instability in the institutional management of the State. Moreover, it is evident to those who want to see it and do not want to close their eyes, that the so-called Transitional regime has also entered into crisis and this affects not only the political but also the economic. This State, Mr Sánchez, has problems that this House and the majorities that have led it over the past few years have allowed to become blurred. Here are job insecurity, unemployment, the productive model, pensions, inequality between women and men, and in other cases - as in the territorial crisis - there has been a shift from the possibility of undertaking a second transition to maintaining pre-constitutional positions; and there has been an involution in the approaches both on the right and on the left, which has resulted in the implementation of 155, the imprisonment of a legitimate Catalan Government and, therefore, the impulse of a Spanish supremacist and negatist nationalism. In this regard - and in these times when the Constitution is used as a shirt of force and prison of peoples - it is worth recalling, ladies and gentlemen, that the Basques and Basques did not support the Constitution and, above all, it is necessary to stress that the Constitution was a pact based on impunity for Francoism. They turn their gaze if not towards the Valley of the Fallen and those corners of the geography of horror where they still lie thousands of dead. Yes, a pact based on impunity for franchisors that determined a model of state that imposed the monarchy and denied the right of self-determination. We therefore put the question back in this House before a model that does not respond to the Basque and Catalan demands and any other people who want to decide their future. And we want to stress this because in the Spanish State there will be no full democracy and political stability without plurinationality, without respect for the democratic will of the Basque and Catalan peoples and without a socio-economic model that neutralizes the growing social inequality. We also want to underline something basic: national problems must be tackled democratically, with dialogue, with negotiation and, of course, with democracy. In the same way that in Quebec, Scotland, New Caledonia or in the Faroe Islands it is their communities that democratically decide their future, in Catalonia and in the Basque Country it must be the Basque and Catalan citizenships that determine the model of relationship we want with the State. Ladies and gentlemen, if this basic statement is not a collective meeting point, not only will instability and conflict be maintained, but this House will continue to sacrifice democracy to tackle these problems. Therefore, the question is: What do you want to do, Mr Sánchez, what do you want to do that would not do the right of PP, Citizens or VOX? Are you going to be the president who, after an appearance of dialogue but without a real democratic offer on the model of state, will continue to embolden Article 155 as a threat against sovereignism and the will of Basque and Catalan citizens, or are you going to be the president who will face the structural problems of this state without coercion, without fear of reactionary rights and through ways of dialogue, negotiation and democracy? If you walk the first path, we already wish you the failure of your management and the expiration of your management, because this strategy - more peculiar to authoritarian involution - will lead you to completely subordinate to that right to which you will give oxygen and which will end up eating you and your party. If you choose the second, through dialogue and democracy, you will have an opportunity, an opportunity to address national conflicts in parameters of bilaterality and agreement. Enjoy it, because maybe it's the last. We said we had plenty of reasons to say no and that's still the case. That you are unable to reach an agreement with the only state-level force trying at least to overcome structural problems in democratic terms leaves evidence that you want to leave things as they are. It is another reason to distrust you; if you are not able to agree with Podemos, what can we expect from your government the left-wing independenceists? Without concealing our distrust of which path to take, but also from the responsibility with the word given that our vote will never give way to the right-wing trident, we will facilitate its investiture with our abstention; a abstention that in no case implies a blank cheque or a sign of confidence in the path to be taken, but seeks to give it an opportunity to solve the structural problems of this State. Because our vows, in short, are to repeal the labor reform, to end the law on gags, to end the prison policy of exception based on revenge, which continues to engage the relatives of Basque prisoners and prisoners to travel thousands of kilometers every weekend. Our vows, in short, are also to assert firmly our language and culture in the face of any threat, so that the democratic right of all peoples to decide their future and demand the freedom of prisoners and political prisoners is recognized. This is EH Bildu; not the image that our training is trying to sell. Eskerrik asko. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Aizpurua. I now give the floor, by Coalition Canaria, Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President of the Canary Islands, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sánchez, history always passes the bill, Mr Sánchez. Here we are with that 'no no' that made his flag. You set the precedent for intolerance and are now asking the opposition what it did not want to give. And those who asked you the 'yes' are responding with the 'no is no'. You have tried to negotiate a programme-based political cooperation pact. He is very lost and has not understood what is going on with the new policy. I explained to him: the new policy was against armchairs and the distribution of charges, but only when they were not for them. You want to negotiate a government with your left by agreeing on a program, but your left is not a program, but portfolios, that is, armchairs, Mr Sánchez, armchairs, to see if you find out. That is why we are where we are today, because Spain's interest is the least important thing, because this has only been a theatre where Mr. Iglesias wanted to be a minister and you wanted him not to be a minister. In this House there are parties that have collaborated in the past in the governance of this country with conservative or socialist governments, among others the PNV or Canary-PNC Coalition, and accused us of selling our votes in the interest of our land. And look where, the same ones who accused us of that now turns out they also put a price on their support, but the price is them. This Member who speaks to you reached agreement - indeed, with real negotiations - with the PSOE, which took Toño Alonso and Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba, to support a socialist government fulfilling with a sense of state at difficult times for this country. We did it for the Canary Islands and Spain. We also voted in favour of the first investiture in which you were not elected, Mr Sánchez, in that government which did not vote for those on your left because neither did you give him the ministries you were asking for. The Canarian nationalists are not going to support their investiture, but we are willing to support a government that is committed to working for the Canaries. This year he denied us bread and salt; he broke relations with the Nationalist Government of the Canary Islands and devoted himself to strangling it financially by land, sea and air. Well, there is no longer a nationalist government on the islands; as a result of democratic elections, the PSOE governs the Canary Islands. And now I ask you to change your attitude and now comply with the canaries, because my land and my people need it, Mr Sánchez, is of justice. Look, we have not come to this Congress to work for our party, we have come to defend the interests of 2 million people living on our islands, so you have our word that, if you change your policies, if you give us the funding that is retained in this year's budgets, if you comply with the REF and the Canary Islands Statute, as is your obligation, you will have us at your side, Mr Sánchez, we promise you. But I also say to you that if you believe that with a related government in the Canary Islands you will perpetuate the abuse with the silence and complicit conformism of your own, you will be shot in the ass. Here are two women nationalists who won't let you pass one in this legislature. Here are two canarian women who will raise their voices whenever it takes to defend the interests of their land, if you do not learn to respect them at once. You are a candidate for the investiture that comes to this rostrum as The Naked King. Your support is seen only by you, Mr Sánchez, because you do not have it, and you go up to this rostrum to tell us that this responsibility for not having a new government lies with all the Members of this House. No, Your Honor, the responsibility lies with you and with the negotiations you have not done, because what is being demonstrated in this debate is that you have not agreed anything with anyone. You've set up a theater, Mr. Sanchez. First they scared the whole country with the ghost of a new election that nobody wanted. You have appeared as the firm leader who refuses to compromise with radical parties to reach power. How great and how noble! You want a total free government, that's why you expect the PP and Citizens' abstention and since yesterday also that of Podemos, but everything has changed, and Citizens' as well. They have become like Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, in the morning they say one thing and in the evening, the opposite. They don't want you to rule with the secessionists, but they don't support you; they rule with VOX's votes, but they say they don't want to see them, and here they refuse to vote for a socialist president, but in the Canary Islands they co-rule with the PSOE and Podemos. There's no one who understands them! Yes, Mr Rivera, it is good to know that in the Canary Islands you and Podemos have been the key to giving the government of island institutions to the PSOE. You, who spend your life giving ethical lessons to the other parties, now it turns out that you have become the paradise of the Transfugas, which are already so many, ladies and gentlemen, that I do not know if it is your party that has become the transfugas of itself. Mr. Candidate, what you have told your allies is this famous: these are lentils and either they take them or the ballot boxes. This is the threat it brings to this House. He's giving back the tictac, - tictac to Mr. Iglesias. Mr. Iglesias is the other protagonist of this investiture session. I wouldn't want to stop remembering that. Mr. Sánchez, you don't trust Mr. Churches. He has changed so many times of speech, of allies and of argument that, in the end, one has the feeling that he has deceived everyone. So I keep thinking that there is some sort of poetic justice in which Mr Sánchez has ended up deceiving you, Mr. Iglesias, because, if we end up in a new election, it will also be your failure, your new great failure, the bitter end of that path of the motion of censure. And you know what I'm saying? Beware, Mr. Iglesias, that you start as a PSOE vase and end up like a Chinese vase inside Podemos. You, Mr Iglesias, and you, Mr Rivera, have not changed anything for the better - the new policy - have made it worse. You have shown and are showing that you are only concerned about your electoral and personal interests. They did not come to change politics in Spain, they came to entangle everything and, in the end, more politics than the worst politics. Ladies and gentlemen, people are getting sick of us and we have to live up to the circumstances at this time and in this country. Let us talk; we cannot bring this country back to a new election. The Spanish spoke, and the problems we have in this House and not the citizens, who did not get the wrong vote. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u31	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. I have the floor for the same parliamentary group, Mr Sayas López.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u32	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We are discussing in this House whether or not to invest Mr Sánchez as President of the Government of Spain and whether or not the candidate deserves our confidence, but whether the project he presented to us yesterday is what our country needs. That's why I'm already telling you that you're not going to have UPN's support, and you're not going to do it because what we heard yesterday is incoherent, short-term, interested and harmful to Spain. Yesterday we heard him call on some groups in this House to avoid his investiture depending on the nationalist parties and yet we have been seeing him in Navarre embrace nationalism without coherence and without principles for weeks. We also saw in this House how it was said that there was no alternative to your Government because you are the first political force and have almost twice as many seats as the next one, and in Navarre, the Socialist Party, with eleven seats, intends to remove the government that has twenty to make a pact - it is supposed - with which you want to avoid: with the nationalists not only of the PNV, which is in Geroa Bai, but with the nationalists of Bildu, because without Bildu there is no alternative possible in Navarre. Mrs Chivite cannot be President of the Government of Navarre without Bildu, and Bildu has already said that she is not going to give a free vote, and in addition, anyone who knows what Bildu is knows that this is the case. Therefore, if there is Mrs Chivite's government in Navarre, there is a Socialist Party pact with EH Bildu, there is no other possibility. [[Applauds]] Bildu can never be a travel companion for a government nor can he ever have the key of a government, he can't do it, simply and plainly, because it's not a democratic force anymore, however much we've seen Mrs. Aizpurua say this morning that Bildu puts life in the center, it takes a stomach to say that Bildu, unless he's referring to the center of the target, unless he's referring to the center of the target. [[applause]] [[A lady Member: Very well!-Applause]] Because, indeed, Bildu is not a democratic party anymore and is not because, to date, he still does not say that murdering someone in a democracy for defending their political project freely is something unjustifiable, condemnable and, of course, repugnant. Today many of Bildu's leaders and militants come to town squares and prison gates to receive as if they were heroes to those who came out of them for having been part of a terrorist gang. Today Bildu still does not condemn ETA terrorism and when he rejects it, as we saw Mr Otegi in an infamous interview on Spanish Television, he does so with strategic reasons, but never with ethical, moral or democratic arguments. And I could go on for a long time, but I don't think I have time or need to explain to anyone what Bildu is, another thing is that some try to cover their eyes and ask others to stick their noses in. Yesterday we also heard that it seems that he wants a government with anyone and at any price, we have seen him here and we have seen him also in Navarre. Governments are not an end in themselves, Governments make sense only insofar as they serve to channel a political project that improves the lives of a country and the lives of its citizens. It is impossible to advance a country by the hand of those who want to destroy it, and nationalism only aims to destroy Spain; therefore, it can never be nationalism as a travel companion. We have seen what nationalism means in Navarre, we have seen it for four years, four years in which the pillars of a political project that has no other objective than to end up making Navarra look much like what Catalonia is today. Four years of sectarianism and indoctrination in education; four years of imposition of a language, even to gain access to the public administration; four years in which Barkos and his associates have degraded the symbols of our community and tried to replace them with a flag that is not ours; four years doing what nationalism knows how to do: the obsession of territory, flag and language. And that obsession is that which we who are part of the candidacy of Navarra Suma, UPN in particular together with the Socialist Party in Navarra, have fought from the opposition. That is why it is very difficult to understand that the Socialist Party has passed in Navarre from fighting nationalism from the opposition to wanting to lead a nationalist government from the government, because that is what Mrs Chivite in Navarre intends to do, to lead a nationalist government in Navarre. That we should not be sold as progressive what is nothing but a nationalist government, because there is nothing less progressive than nationalism, there is nothing more retrograde than nationalism. That is why, Mr Sánchez, Navarra Suma was born so that the nationalists would not govern or condition governments. We extend our hand to you, we have extended it over these weeks, but we do so with the same consistency as we ask of you. I don't want nationalists not to rule here as long as you embrace nationalism in Navarre. I do not agree in Navarre with the nationalists not only because I need or do not need our votes, but because someone who aspires to be president of the Government of Spain cannot understand the future of Navarre and its historical relationship of loyalty with the whole of Spain as an arithmetic sum of two votes above or six votes below, because responsibility, the sense of state and democratic patriotism cannot be at the dawn of a short-term situation, of a specific moment or of a specific vote, but they must intertwine our convictions and build bridges among all that we believe in our country. Therefore, Mr Sánchez, if you really care about Spain, prove it in Navarre. I believe that if you prove it, it will help to build confidence in this House, it will give back hope to many citizens that real policy, that of principles, is possible, and it will also help to restore dignity to an activity as noble and necessary as it is now lost and worn out. Choose your partners well, Mr Sánchez, for the future and the enormous responsibility ahead. Nationalists are never good travel companions and the Spaniards deserve and we need a better alternative. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u33	Thank you, Mr. Sayas. By Compromís, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. In the famous novel by Julio Verne, its protagonist, Phileas Fogg, says in London: Eighty days to turn the world around are enough. Here in Madrid, eighty days have not even been used to turn around a negotiating table. Eighty days standing, stranded, motionless; eighty days soaked with vetoes in all directions, before the stupor of the vast majority of citizens. And now, in the absence of a few days, we're trying to pass the exam. There is time, I insist, there is time to continue negotiating if you have true will, because according to your speeches, especially yesterday, we do not have it so clear, or perhaps so. Many invocations and appeals to the abstention of Citizens and the People's Party, who have repeatedly said no, and very few winks and very few complicitys to those we have made president and to those we can make president. I have a feeling that few bridges are stretched and many are dynamized. His interventions seem to seek unconditional surrender to the beloved leader who with only 123 votes will lead us to paradise, because his party is 140 years old and the 140-year-old parties know how to rule, and we do not seem to know how to do so. No, Mr. Sanchez, it's not that. In Compromís we have repeatedly demonstrated our openness to reaching agreements, to propitiate progressive governments, to pass decree-laws that have improved people's lives, and we reiterate our commitment to facilitate governance, to propitiate a new government and to avoid new elections. In short, respect the will of the citizens, who voted very clearly and said that there is no Government on the right, who, if they want, have to avoid the new elections. It was also clearly recalled by its militants on election night. There is only one way and that way goes through an agreement, an agreement with United We can, with the PNV, with the Regionalist Party of Cantabria, with Compromís; an agreement with the band, with that band that voted 172 000 Valencians, almost 400,000 Basques and Basques, 3,700,000 Spanish and Spanish. But in order to reach agreements we must negotiate and there must be will, generosity, flexibility; we must sit around a table and the truth is that we have sat little. The first time we sat down was on June 12 and the second on June 17, very few. The PNV spokesman just said they haven't called them in 20 days. You won't tell me it's not very little; it's small, it's insufficient. And now that we are negotiating with the pressure of time, you want to put us between the sword and the wall: either me or chaos, and chaos is precisely your chaotic way of negotiating. On the debate I read yesterday in a media outlet, that the regionals will talk about the existence of their region. The regionals, how old, I suppose it would refer to formations like Compromises. Of course we speak of our land; for that they voted for us, even if some do not like it. We have seen many times that in this rostrum nobody talks about the problems of the Valencians if they are not Compromised, but in our negotiation with you we talk about ours and, also, about all the Spaniards, and that which I am of the band. I'll give you an example. In the document we are negotiating with the PSOE - and I say deliberately that we are negotiating - we talk about dependency, a law driven by you, and we ask for your compliance throughout the territory. The state must contribute 50% and contribute 12%, while our autonomous community devotes 88% to the Dependency Act. Don't tell me it's not an anomaly. We talk about citrus, Valencians, of course, but also of Andalusian citrus, of the bats and of the Catalans. We ask you to invoke the safeguard clause of the Agreement with South Africa and we are talking about Valencian and Spanish agriculture, the great sacrifice in the trade agreements signed by the European Union. We call for a study of the impact on all our products before Spain's ratification of the Treaty with Mercosur, which will mean a massive influx of agricultural products, citrus fruits, rice, bananas, or livestock farmers. We're talking about funding, which you spent four seconds on, ours and everyone's, which by law had to be reformed five years ago, because the vast majority of points that you made yesterday are the competence of the autonomous communities. And the Valencians in order to be able to provide the essential services of the welfare state, which the state itself entrusts to us, we have to be indebted one year and another and another. There is no right, it is unsustainable, insolidary and unjust. These are demands of the Botànic Agreement that you have signed, which has signed the President, Don Ximo Puig, a demand from all the Valencian Courts. It is not a demand of Compromís, it is a demand of the entire Valencian society, of more than three hundred municipalities, of entrepreneurs, of trade unions, of musical societies and of independent associations. It's over, Mr. Sanchez. My sincere impression is that yesterday you ran out of arguments. He wants to rule alone and only with 123 deputies. Two questions; what ministries do we offer to Podemos, can we know? Second question, do you intend to agree with us on the same thing that the Valencian PSOE signed and that calls for all Valencian society? Is there a will? Mr. Sánchez, if instead of wanting to be a soloist in the band wanting to lead a real music band, a Valencian music band, we can play together many pieces, pieces that will make many people in this country happy. And a humble recommendation before I go: take care of the idus of November, Mr Sánchez, because your victory can be pyrrhic, it can be the definitive tomb of a progressive government, it can be your tomb. Our hand is still open. Move it, move it, Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u35	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Finally, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u36	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, when the Regionalist Party of Cantabria decided to run for election on 28 April, it did so with a twofold objective: to defend Cantabria's interests and to support Spain's governability. Many cantabres picked up our message and voted for us, so I am here today to reaffirm this commitment. Our raison d'être and for which the Regionalist Party of Cantabria was founded is to defend Cantabria's interests; interests that have been undermined over the past few years many times. I do not want to tell you all these cases, but I will only cite one as an example so that those who do not know can understand our position in this debate. In 2010, after many years of processes, studies, projects and tenders, the works of the first sections of the AVE from Santander to Palencia were awarded, between Palencia and Villaprovedo, near Alar del Rey. Just when the works began they were paralyzed and then the contract was cancelled. We don't talk about billions, it was only 160 million euros in four years, compare you. Well, today in 2019, nine years later, the projects to restart the works are not yet approved. Meanwhile, in the rest of the communities, bad as well, progress has been made in some way everywhere. This is just an example. As we do not want to be any less than the others, as we do not want to be left behind, as we also did on the plateau motorway, as we do not want to be another ten years with the same song, we will demand here the same treatment as the neighbouring autonomous communities. That is why, last June 13th, we signed with Mr Ábalos, secretary of the Organization of the Socialist Party, this agreement which reasonably reflects our aspirations, which in essence and summarisely are: to have the same infrastructure as the neighbouring communities and to pay off Valdecilla's debt. [[shows a document]] Mr Sánchez, yesterday he spoke of a state agreement on infrastructure and of studying the railway connections in Cantabria. But that is not our agreement; what we have signed is an agreement with concrete works and deadlines. That is why I ask you to reaffirm yourself in your turn in this rostrum at all points in the signed document. Now let's talk about the governance of Spain. Yesterday we saw in this House good signs of what partyism is, and I do not say it because of the swelling on the benches - it seems almost a football match -. This reminded me that when I started politics many years ago, I was told about the enemy or water. I have always been reticent about this way of acting. They said to me: You are a technician; this is the core of politics. For, in spite of everything, even though I don't know about politics, I can assure you that it hasn't been so bad for us. On the contrary, the Regionalist Party of Cantabria has been ruling twenty-four years in that region. I myself, in my public works plot, have seen how this is appreciated in all the municipalities of Cantabria when you don't look at its political color. In the autonomous community we have agreed coalition governments in two legislatures with the People's Party, three with the Socialist Party, and now we start the fourth; sometimes with absolute majority, others with minority governments that in Parliament needed agreements to carry out budgets or certain laws with the opposition. Every year, every year, we've had budgets. Miguel Ángel Revilla, general secretary of our party, always demands this as an indispensable condition for governing. I do not believe that any other autonomous community can say the same: stable governments, without a single government crisis. These have been the governments presided over by Miguel Ángel Revilla. Therefore, here you all have an example to look at. Being a bisagra party has not been so bad over time; in the last elections about 40% of the votes. It is not so complicated, you have to have realism with results, basic agreements, quick negotiations and get to work. We have been like this for 24 years, and it is very good for the system that there are parties with this way of acting. They don't know how the citizens appreciate it. With the composition of this House, the truth is that there are so many choices that it would be incomprehensible not to choose any of them. There is one thing very clear and another not so clear: the first is that Pedro Sánchez has to be the next president of the government. The second is the option most Spaniards prefer; for that we are here their representatives, for that they have chosen us. Nevertheless, we are at an interesting time, not always an absolute majority is the best for large state policies. Precisely when it does not exist is when you can try these covenants. We all talk about education, pensions, the labour market, climate change, etc. It is in these circumstances that these agreements must be produced so that they cannot be easily modified by the Government of office, even for specific issues such as, for example, resolving the situation of prison officials. And as time went by, the signatories of the Constitutional Pact, the Moncloa Pacts and the Toledo Pact had not gone so badly, even if they had not been in the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, the world is moving very fast and we cannot waste much time on some issues. In other places they are not standing, much less. Four years is a lot, but now eight is a barbarity, and this eternity is passing without advancing on these great issues. We must be constructive, especially since the opposition. It can also be useful and I have heard very little in this whole debate. Are we going to tell the Spaniards to vote again? Are we going to tell them to change their vote, that we don't like how they voted? For they will say to us, "No, thank you, you who have chosen you for this; there will always be a lesser evil." The 2016 elections have been repeated and you know what happened, that nothing was fixed; we have it very recently. I hope that this week we will rise to the right level and begin the way to resolve all these issues, and I also look forward to your reply, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. I now give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your interventions. I'll start with Junts' spokesperson for Catalonia, Mrs. Borràs. I believe that there is a point of departure on which we deeply disagree, and that is that you do not recognize the legitimacy of this House or of the Spanish State, do not recognize it. Look, you criticize us for the lack of dialogue, even telling us that social laws or laws linked to climate change or the ecological transition in Catalonia cannot be passed, and that they are repressed - by using their exact terms - in the Constitutional Court. It is not true, Your Honor, that these laws can be passed, of course, in the exercise of their powers enshrined in the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia or of any other autonomous community in the Autonomous Parliament, and for those issues that transcend what is the Autonomic State, logically there is the Congress of Deputies and the Senate in order to govern them and be able to be adopted. In the investiture speech I talked about a climate change law, I talked about an energy and climate plan, I talked about many of the measures to which you have referred related to the fight against poverty and social exclusion. These are issues, Your Honor, which will be able to be discussed and approved here in the Congress of Deputies. What happens is that you do not recognize the legitimacy of this House, because for you the Spanish state and the Spaniards who voted on 28 April or 26 May do so to repress a supposed Catalan people, of which you stand as a spokesman. By the way, he always forgets more than half of the Catalan people who do not compromise or want the independenceist drift of their political approaches, but, well, that is another issue that has more to do with the conception of democracy that you and I have. I recognize your legitimacy and here you have it represented; you do not recognize the legitimacy of the Socialist Party of Catalonia, which is the second force in Catalonia, the first constitutional force in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] There is a problem of origin, and you consider that this Congress of Deputies is of a repressive State, that the State of Autonomy is also an invention of a repressive State that comes from Francoism, that is something that we have inherited from Francoism and that we do not live in a democracy. What happens, Your Honor, is that you, as your group, are struggling with reality; it is that Spain, fortunately - and not I say it, but the main international bodies - is among the twenty full democracies of the world, Your Honor. That is Spain, a social and democratic state of law. Therefore, of course we have a fundamental discrepancy, of origin, and you do not recognize that legitimacy. For example, when you listen from my mouth or to ministers and ministers of the Spanish Government of the previous legislature say that since 2008 the bilateral Commission, which has been listed and listed in the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, has not met, or that there are sectoral conferences that we have promoted with the autonomic governments in many areas linked to health, employment, infrastructure, you do not recognize. It is that you will not even defend the rights and also the well-being and prosperity of the Catalan people to whom you claim to want to defend! And they do not because they do not recognize the legitimacy of the state of autonomy and the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. This is the fundamental problem, ladies and gentlemen, that you have settled in anti-politics, which are useless, from the parliamentary point of view, to defend the rights, prosperity and progress of the Catalan people. [[Applauds]] Why else, ladies and gentlemen, did you vote against budgets that complied with the additional provision linked to public investments in Catalonia's Autonomy Statute? Why, if you did not vote against budgets that proposed a reconstruction of the welfare state and many of the social rights, which were undermined by the previous conservative administration, for the next year? Because you, ladies and gentlemen, put forward other questions that have nothing to do with the everyday lives of Catalans, regardless of what you are voting for. That is the point, Mrs Borràs. And do you know what the great tragedy of your parliamentary group is? That for forty years, before you and I were in politics, there were political leaders of parties that you have inherited that contributed to that self-government. And with this exercise of anti-policy in which you are installed, you are making an amendment to the whole of all those political representatives who preceded you in the General Courts and also in the Autonomic Government. With this, the problem is fundamental, ladies and gentlemen; the problem is that you do not recognize the legitimacy of the social and democratic rule of law that is Spain and, without a doubt, of the General Courts. When you come out of the maze you've been in for a few years, full of falsehoods, lies and certainly some kind of victimization that has nothing to do with reality, we most likely start to speak at least one language that we can understand and be understandable to both of you. But don't talk to me about dialogue when we have a representative at the head of the Catalan institutions, in this case the Generalitat de Catalunya, as is Mr Torra, talking about unilaterality and that they are going to do it again. I insist, I say this to you very clearly, Mrs Borràs, the Government of Spain and, in my case, if I have a responsibility it will of course be to direct the crisis of coexistence that exists in Catalonia since the dialogue within the Constitution and the law, but I also say one thing to you, Mrs Borràs: that of doing so again is going to happen again. With regard to Mrs Aizpurua's speech, I am grateful to her that you have indeed been involved in issues relating to climate change, equal pay, feminism, pensions and social justice. It is true that everything in the end comes to confluence and drift into a territorial crisis. And the feeling that it gives from the outside, Your Honor - it is the first time I hear it - is that the problem is only from Spain, that the reaction and regression or involution that we are seeing in the way of understanding democracy, of putting forward political positions, is something typical of Spain, as if we were living on an island, as if these currents of reaction, regression and involution did not exist in the whole of Europe or, even, I would dare to say in global politics. I differ from that and I believe that precisely in Spain we have enough limbs to be able, from dialogue, to understand each other knowing where we can agree and where we cannot agree. Of course, I do not veto your group, I respect the legitimacy they have, but it is clear that we have serious discrepancies of present and future, but also of past, and there I remain. But what I cannot share with you is that social injustice, inequality, the problems that have to do with challenges such as digitisation and ecological transition, have their origin in a territorial crisis like the one you have described. I don't agree with that. Fortunately we live in a social and democratic state of law that has decentralized like no country in the world - probably only one country above us - its powers, its sovereignty, and not only down but up. We have shared sovereignty with the municipalities, with the autonomous communities, with the outlaws and also, without a doubt, with Europe. I believe that this is the way, what we have to do is to share sovereignty precisely because this is how we institutionally strengthen from the smaller city hall of Navarra, Euskadi or Andalusia to a government as important as the European Commission in Brussels. Therefore, that is the way we defend, it is the way to share sovereignty, not to split sovereignty; in short, it is the way that goes in favor of history and not against history, which is what I have heard in its political approach. From there, there are indeed issues that we share that have to do with social rights, no doubt also with historical memory - I am grateful that you made the reference - but when you ask me what I am going to do, I have to be very clear. Look, I used to get the data from the last euskobarometer of July, where we talk precisely about the degree of satisfaction of Basque society in relation to the Spanish Constitution and the Statute of Gernika, and I have to tell you that 83% of Basques and Basques are satisfied. You probably represent even people of that 83% who are satisfied with the Constitution and the Statute of Gernika - I think - but in any case that is what we are going to defend yesterday, today and always: the state of autonomy as the best model to combine all the identities that can logically be felt in our country. Mrs Oramas must think that the canaries and canaries are masochists because they voted mostly for the Socialist Party and that is why we have for the first time, after twenty years, a socialist president at the head of the Canary Islands. [[Applauds]] Not only at the head of the Canary Islands, Your Honor, but also at the head of most of the cabilds and many municipalities in all the Canary Islands. Anyway, Your Honor, they must all be masochists. Or, perhaps - I only put it to you - has it not been possible for the Canary Islands Coalition, its political project, to have been exhausted for a few years now and to have been isolated by expelling all potential partners over the past few years? Of course we're talking about the Canary Islands! [[Applauds]] We are a party that in the Canary Islands and also in the Congress of Deputies we approved the new Statute of Autonomy of the Canary Islands, the Fiscal Economic Regime, the Canarian Agenda, and last December 28 was signed - I want to remind you - the Road Convention 2018-2025 worth 1200 million euros. You did not want to sign the agreement, Your Honor; a road agreement of EUR 1200 million for the Canary Islands. Can you imagine that in any other island or archipelago of our country or in any other territory of the Joint Group to which you belong? It was a €12 billion agreement and you refused to sign it because you considered it did not comply with the demands and commitments of the Spanish Government with the Canarian Government. Your Honor, I believe that, of course, you can oppose the Government of Spain, seek reasons; surely you find many reasons to oppose the Government of Spain, but not in relation to public investment in the Canary Islands. We have the subsidy for the transport of passengers and goods, the increase of the bonus for the marine and air transport with the Peninsula of 75%, the comprehensive plan of employment of the Canary Islands of 42 million euros, the plan of educational infrastructures, the convention of tourist infrastructures, the purification of water, the subsidy to reduce the cost of the desalination and the extraction of water, of 8 million euros. Mrs Oramas, what I want to ask you with this is what the problem is: that reality does not align with your speech here in this rostrum, and that probably the Canary Islands what they have interpreted is that your Government was seeking more confrontation with the Government of Spain than genuine cooperation with the Government of Spain, and that is why they voted for the Socialist Party. With this, I must say that, of course, we are going to reach out to the Canarian Coalition Group, to the two Members, so that we can find ways to understand each other, but - and I humbly say this to you, Your Honor - not only are you talking about Canaries; the Socialist Parliamentary Group and this government are also talking about Canaries. [[Applauds]] Mr. Baldoví says that they speak of Valencia - where is Mr. Baldoví?-. I must also remind you that the Socialist Party of the Valencian Country won the elections, it is the first political force, and we are also talking about the Valencian Community. We talk when, for example, you also meet or meet Mr Puig's Government with the Minister of Agriculture to defend the citrus sector in the Valencian Community; we also talk about infrastructures when you or the Government of the Valencian Generalitat meet with Mr Ábalos to talk about the outstanding infrastructures; we also talk about the Valencian Community when the Government of the Valencian Generalitat meets with the Minister of Finance to address the problem of autonomous financing. You tell me that in my speech yesterday morning I devoted four seconds to autonomous financing. Yeah, maybe I should have set aside a few more minutes, but here are the facts of the last 12 months. We have guaranteed the possibility of financing short-term credit operations of the Autonomous Communities, including the Valencian Community. In the 2019 budget, which did not support the independence forces together with the conservative forces of this House, there was an increase in real investment to the Valencian Community of more than 60% and a cancellation of the Navy's debt, which is the Valencian consortium, of 2007. This has brought us some headaches with other autonomous communities that want the same. Therefore, what I want to say to you with this is that we, without a doubt, defend the interests of the Valencian Community because, among other issues, we are deeply grateful to the Valencian people for having entrusted the Socialist Party of the Valencian Country in a majority manner. Mr Sayas, of Navarra Suma, has told us about Bildu, of all the evils. I do not see that because Bildu is going to abstain I had and have an agreement with Bildu, it does not seem that the words of Mrs Bildu's spokesman and mine are apparent that we have an agreement. It gives the feeling, Your Honor, that you have some selective memory. It seems that, for example, in the City Hall of Pamplona you have nothing to blame the Socialist Party of Navarre but you do have to blame it for trying to carry out the mandate of what the polls said on 26 May, and it is that there is a progressive and changeable government in the Foral Community of Navarre. From the last elections on 26 May, a number of things came to my attention. The first of these is that UPN, a party that has always been defined as a foralist, has agreed with a party like Citizens, which precisely wants to question Navarra's foraality. [[Applauds]] Secondly, Your Honor, you may not, but it gives me that there is something behind - I have the fly behind my ear - that the only place where the far right did not appear in the general elections last 28 April was in the Navarra Foral Community. Your Honor, what I want to tell you is that Navarra Suma is an artifact with which you have tried to hide a much more complex reality and that you have agreed with forces that do not believe in Navarra's forality. In other words, they question something that we defend and that I say, that is that the only party that defends forality in Navarre today is the Navarra Socialist Party. [[Protests.-Applause.]] You know that this government will always be next to Navarra when it comes to its financial stability, so we are going to deal with updating the economic agreement that ends this year with the utmost interest and responsiveness to the demands of the outside institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, you also know that the Socialist Party and this government defend the outlaw regime in Navarre and its position as a separate outlaw community. You have not spoken of these things, Your Honor, you have only spoken of the threat of Bildu and the evil that socialists are doing. In any case, I have to tell you that we are going to try to fulfil that mandate for change in the Navarra Foral Community. I hope that, beyond the more partisan than parliamentary proclamations that you have poured into this rostrum, when you roll the legislature - if it finally goes off - you start thinking about the interests of shipwrecks and shipwrecks and we can reach agreements, beyond what is the formula of government in the community. To Congressman Mazón, first of all, I want to congratulate you on your birthday, which seems to be today. Secondly, I thank you very much for the tone and, moreover, for the generosity, because you have made an argument in favour of the hinges in autonomous politics and how they could also be in national politics that would even question your role as a Member and minority group in the House, and that says a lot about the intervention you have made. It is true - the president of Cantabria has also recognized me in a message that sent me yesterday - that I was not explicit enough, as we have been in the agreement that we have signed with you through the minister of Development in office. I would like to tell you that the compromise is guaranteed, it will comply with the wording contained in the agreement signed by both parties. Your Honor, economic development and prosperity in Cantabria will be important to us. There we are ruling alongside you. I thank you very much for the support you are going to give us. He is the only Member we have been able to withdraw his affirmative support for this investiture during these months. I thank you very much, Your Honor. I hope that there will be other parliamentary groups that will follow in their wake and that we could have a government in Spain this week. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u39	Thank you, Mr. Candidate. Mrs Borràs has the floor. In this turn of replica we will make a strict application of the time they have allocated.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u40	Let me say hello - I have not done so before, I was debuting today in this rostrum - to Gorka Knörr, the delegate of the Government of Catalonia in Madrid, among the authorities accompanying us. Then, Mr. Sánchez, I'm going to ask you for a little more respect for President Torra. He is the president of the Generalitat de Catalunya, voted by the citizens, elected by the Parliament of Catalonia, by the House. I speak to you with respect and hope that you will do the same to my President. He talks about unilaterality, goes with the flag of unilaterality, has it not been thought that even unilaterality can simply be the lack of bilaterality? Up to eighteen times he refused the open hand of the Catalan sovereignist forces with proposals perfectly capable of launching a consultation supported by a generous and lax interpretation of the Constitution. You started yesterday talking about a reform of the Constitution and then on different points. In Catalonia, we hope that the will of the people will be respected, that human rights will be respected, including the right to self-determination. You tell us about the most important rule, the statute, and you tell us about the support you had. But if we have not voted on the statute that was cut off from the Constitutional Court! We didn't vote for it. Like the social laws to which I referred and which were suspended. Do you know what specific aspects of the Equality Act were considered unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court? Because they have to do with part of yesterday's programmatic proposal: regulation in the field of work, regulation in the field of trade union equality, work siege, equality plans. Togas that are opposed to the will of the citizens. Of course, he called us useless. Well, at the moment you haven't been much more helpful. He has told us about anti-politics and accused us of anti-politics, someone who has insulted more than a million people who seem to be living from their backs to reality - now I am talking about European relations -. What we defend has nothing to do with reality? If you do not know how to read the election results, all groups have given you some kind of consideration as to how you need support that you do not seek or negotiate to achieve and have made reference to political Catalanism. Know that never has political Catalanism, in all its years of political trajectory, given its votes in exchange for nothing, only to you, Mr Pedro Sánchez; only to you. [[applause]] And he tells us about the budgets; then, when the Catalan Socialist Party votes against the budgets in the Catalan Parliament it turns out that it does it out of interest and legitimately but, instead, if we do it it is because we are anti-political? Please, if the budgets later turn out not to be met and the figures are offered by your own ministries. Let me just, before I finish, insist once again that you leave... You're the aspiring president of the government, don't encourage fake news. There is no crisis of coexistence in Catalonia, Mr Sánchez. [[Rumors]] There isn't, there isn't. It is the Office of the Attorney-General of the State who is asking for prison, the Office of the Attorney-General and the Office of the Attorney-General - and what the UN Special Rapporteur on Freedom of Expression has urged them not to initiate proceedings for this crime of rebellion -. Who sent the police and the Civil Guard on October 1st? Who was it? Who applied the 155? Who was it? Who was the one who sang this song that surely seems extraordinarily cohabitational to 'a for them'? Certainly, who has a problem of coexistence is the Spanish State and the problem of Catalonia, that is, we have identified it: it is called the Spanish State. Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-A lady MP: Get over there!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Borràs. Mrs Aizpurua has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u42	Three notes, Mr. Sanchez. He cited the Euskobarometer, a demoscopic tool that is called into question, just as the CIS is called into question. In any case, why don't we stop using demoscopic tools and take the most direct path and agree on a consultation to clarify what society really wants? It's that simple. With regard to the status of autonomy, which you present as the ideal framework for claims, it is demonstrated - and those who do not see it this way do not want to see it - that it is an exhausted model already for Basque citizenship and for the claims that are being raised. You and the People's Party also have forty years of non-compliance with this status of autonomy. There are currently thirty-six competitions in the VAC, and there are twenty-five in Nafarroa. Finally, he spoke of the general crisis as if I had forgotten that there was a general crisis. That is not true, I pointed out to you exactly in my previous speech. There is a triple crisis, yes: a crisis of institutionality, with an even greater disaffection with the monarchy and which is evident in the Spanish State; there is an economic crisis, indeed, motivated by the domination of the elites against the popular classes, and there is also a territorial crisis that does not respond to the demands of Basque and Catalan citizenship. That being the case, the three are actually interrelated because the three come from the regime of 78. Therefore, we want to overcome it, leave it in the past as a bad memory and open the door to a future that is better for all and for all. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u43	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurua. Mrs Oramas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sánchez, there was a German politician who said that the value of a politician was the following: intelligence less pride. You are suspended in this investiture debate. Having said that, this Member is not her enemy; this Member, for her work, for being consistent, for working and for fighting for her land, today sees an increase in the number of members of her group and we are two Members and we have thousands more votes. Let's see if you take advantage and those advisors you have have have fun with the papers, because you, who yesterday wanted to change the Constitution because it is a democratic anomaly that does not govern the most voted list, I will tell you that in the Cabildo of Fuerteventura, in La Palma and in Tenerife you won Coalition Canaria, and your party, with transfugas and with three political forces, has evicted Coalition Canaria. He said that you won; but not in Gran Canaria or in those three lobbyists, and tomorrow you vote for the motions of censure that you have made with transfugas, after you have signed the anti-transfuguism pact. By the way, on those small papers that have passed to him - and if not, Mr Ábalos will tell you - the 1.2 billion road agreement was signed thanks to Mr Ábalos and Mr Pedro Saura. What you have not transferred and the debt is the judgment of the Supreme of the 1000 million that the People's Party did not pay for the four years that it was with absolute majority. It's a Supreme's sentence. By the way, with regard to all those things that you have reported, since January there have been an extended budget of over 1 billion for the Canary Islands, which we have reviewed with Mr Ábalos, because there are ministers who do have an interest in governance, but we must start walking now. Do you know what I'm saying? So in these extended budgets you sign the employment plans, the tourist infrastructure agreements, the educational agreements, the agricultural insurance, comply with the REF and the statute and we will start talking. Shop hands, Mr Sánchez, this road is long, this Member has a service provided to this country of coherence and has signed agreements with the Socialist Party, with serious people, and to yourself, two years ago, I supported you in the investiture and nine months ago we abstained. And you know what I'm saying? We are not those of non-dialogue or confrontation. You did not receive the president of the Canary Islands when he had to receive it and asked for it, but those of the yellow ties, those are indeed those who confront you! We are loyal to this country and above all to our homeland, which is the Canary Islands, and it is worth both its Socialist Members and this Member, and all of them to work for this country and for my land. But you comply with the statute and the REF and you have less pride with all political forces. This Member did not attack you; you have to respect and give the Canary Islands what is right in justice. Your pride, Mr. Sanchez, is killing you. You're suspended. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. Mr Sayas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u46	Thank you, President. Mr Sánchez, I don't know if you're being fooled or if you're trying to fool everyone else, because VOX, if you're the one you're referring to, did you run for the general election in Navarre and get 17,000 votes from the citizens of Navarre. I don't know how they told you about Pamplona City Hall, either, but I'm telling you. Mrs Esporrin, who is the spokesman for the City of Pamplona, did try the investiture, did not in any case support Navarra Suma and asked Bildu to vote for it, what happens is that Bildu never gives anything free. Therefore, if he did not give him the City Hall of Pamplona and give him the Government of Navarre it will be because it is not free. [[Applauds]] Look, Mr. Sanchez, you'll probably be able to teach us about a lot of things, but from forality to a party that was born to defend it, no. And when you say that we have reached an agreement with Citizens, that you were not supposed to share the improvement, I tell you that I understand politics as the possibility of reaching agreements from understanding and from dialogue, that politics also serves to convince and change our minds, and that sometimes politics also has to put forward what unites us and not what separates us. Today in Navarre we have a problem of nationalism that also has Spain, and those we believe in Spain we have been able to agree in Navarre, the People's Party, Citizens and us, and that is what you should do also in Spain. [[Applauds]] But when you tell us that you are the defender of forality, I say to you: from whom do you intend to defend forality in that government you are trying to do in Navarre? In the hands of the nationalists? From Bildu's hand? By the hand of parties that want Navarra to disappear to become a province of that Euskal Herria that doesn't exist? Is that what you seem to defend forality? Because there's nothing more against forality. And, therefore, Mr Sánchez, if there is no constitutionalist government in Navarre, it will be because the Socialist Party did not want it, despite the fact that the vast majority of Navarra citizens voted for it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u47	Thank you, Mr. Sayas. Mr Baldoví has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u48	Thank you very much. Frankly, it has disappointed me and many, that we expected a little more of his answer. He does things for the Valencians. Of course he does things for the Valencians! I could already! You are the president of the government, of all the Spaniards, also of the Valencians, and that is why you do things; of course you have to do things. But we have a problem that, I insist, does not demand Compromís, it is demanded by all Valencian society, unanimously the Valencian Courts demand it, and it is that to pay the payrolls of doctors, teachers, nurses, dependents, Valencians we have to be in debt one year yes, another also and another also and, therefore, we ask for a reasonable, fair thing, a mechanism that this year does not have to be in debt again. And as I want to be very respectful over time, if you really want to be president you will have to negotiate; if you want to be president. If you want to go to lessons is something else, but if you want to be president after tomorrow or, at the latest, in September, you will have to negotiate. That's why I insist, because you haven't answered me. Three questions: Will you continue to negotiate with Podemos, with PNV and with Compromís? Yes or no? What ministries have you offered Podemos? This, this and this. And, finally, will you support with us what the Valencian PSOE already supports, the whole of Valencian society? I insist: hands stretched, hands open, Thursday, September, when it is. We want you to be president, but, hey, let's negotiate. We'll play together in a band, if you like.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u49	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Finally, Mr. Mazón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u50	Mr Sánchez, I thank you very much for your words for the content, for the form and, above all, for the strength with which you have made the commitment of our agreement. I can tell you it's the best birthday present you could make me today. The conditions we have put in place since the PRC, I believe, are totally reasonable and fair. In fact, I could almost assure you that they have the support of the five deputies elected by the cantabria constituency. I am sure that even the two MPs of the PP and of Citizens would vote for it if their national leaders did not forbid it. However, they have above all other interests other than the main concerns of the cantabres which, for us, are priorities. But there are three issues that I would like to recall in relation to a possible coalition government on Cantabria, on its programme and on Spain. First, in relation to Cantabria, any partner that the government might have has to assume the agreement signed between the PRC and its party, you have to take it into account when negotiating. Secondly, we are a progressive party that primarily defends the weakest, and we will always be in favour of policies aimed at improving the welfare of the most disadvantaged and ensuring for the next generations. At the same time, we are realistic and we know that without economic development and without wealth creation this cannot be achieved. The basis for any policy must therefore be job creation and wealth redistribution. Thirdly, respect for the Constitution, the law and the rule of law, in particular the question of Catalonia and the unity of Spain. Everything is possible within the existing legal system. It can be changed, nothing is eternal in this world, but there is one thing we are clear about: today any decision on Catalonia must be made among all the Spaniards, because this affects the rights that we all have in that part of Spain. So, with these premises, you're not going to be alone. We are few, I am one, but the vote of the Regionalist Party has it for the investiture and for the various initiatives that will be developed throughout the legislature, when it begins, and you will also have our support. Cantabria has always been a loyal region with the rest of Spain and will remain so. I therefore reiterate our support and remind you of the three conditions I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u51	Thank you, Mr. Mazón. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u52	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Borràs, I honestly regret that you tell me that I did not respect Mr Torra. As President of the Generalitat, I respect you. I received him at the Palace of La Moncloa, during the Council of Ministers held in Barcelona I had the opportunity to meet with him, and it was precisely the conservative bench that criticized me for these two meetings, with which, from the point of view of institutional respect, no doubt the President of the Generalitat, whoever he is, will count for the President-in-Office, in this case, of the Government of Spain. You return to the debate of origin, which is that of legitimacy. Here we are not talking, in the case of the rulings of the Constitutional Court, about the remedies that can be brought by the Government on certain sectoral laws of the Parliament of Catalonia, nothing more and nothing less than in competition areas. And it is also said by a Government that, if it gave an instruction - precisely during the last twelve months, before the elections - it was to reduce the litigation between the Government of Spain, the central Government, and the various autonomous communities. When I tell you about anti-politics, it is because you have referred to political Catalanism and I have to tell you, Your Honor, that I deeply disagree. You are not a Catalanist, you do not defend political Catalanism, you defend independence, which is something quite different from Catalanism. Catalanism in historical terms, Your Honor, is Catalonia's contribution to the modernization and progress of the common project that is Spain, and its parliamentary group has long since ceased to build that common project and to contribute to it. With which if you want to talk about Catalanism, we will be able to meet; if you want to talk about independence, we will have much more difficulties. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, look, Mrs Borràs, at how there is a crisis of coexistence in Catalonia. In the last autonomous elections he won a political force, Citizens, which has nothing to do with the independence theses. Another thing is that they did not assume the responsibility that gave them the first political force. They renounced to present themselves to the investiture as I am doing, for example, in this investiture, even though they probably failed in the attempt to be invested President of the Government; they renounced to present a political program to Catalan society, they also renounced to dialogue with political forces that did not think what they thought. And we have also finally seen that the candidate who ran and won those elections ended up in the Congress of Deputies being the spokesman of Mr Rivera or of the things Mr Rivera says and his misdemeanours. [[Rumors]] Probably behind all this is the reduction in the support of Citizens in Catalonia in the last general elections as well as the increase in the support by Catalan society for the party of Catalan socialists, which is precisely what it is doing to defend coexistence, harmony, the whole of Catalans and Catalans, and uniquely those who do not commune with the independence theses. But that crisis of coexistence, if I may say so, with that example, I think it is eloquent enough to know that it exists and that you also have something to put to Catalan society. You come here demanding, but what do you offer to Catalan society but the breakdown of coexistence...? [[Denials by Mrs Borràs Castanyer.- Rumours]] Yes, the break-up of coexistence and the break-up of Catalan society. Mrs Bildu's spokesman, Mrs Aizpurua, 83 %, give her the margin of error you want, but 83 % of Basque society says that it is in favour of the Spanish Constitution and that it is satisfied with the Statute of Gernika. You can put in the 10% margin of error, if you like, but we would be talking about 73%, that is, a large number of people in the Basque Country are in favour of the Statute of Gernika and the Basque self-government. There is therefore no need to consult, no need to consult, because in addition the Basques and Basques in the autonomous elections always manifest themselves, also in the municipal elections. And what is seen is a majority of political parties that defend the self-government of the Basque Country with different intensities. Yes, I will tell you one thing, Your Honor. We are not in favour of the proposal they are making of the renewal of the Statute of Gernika, which looks only at the nationalist part of the Basque Country and not at the whole of society. Your proposal focuses exclusively on Basque identity and leaves aside all that has to do with social rights and equality, issues that you have defended from this rostrum. We can therefore find ourselves on that axis, on that dimension, but not from the identity point of view in what you have proposed to renew the Statute of Gernika. I will also tell you something else I have commented from this rostrum. I told Mr. Esteban, spokesman for the Nationalist Party, and I spoke to the lehendakari. It is clear that we have to comply with the Gernika Statute, but there are some issues that are very difficult and complex, such as the issue of social security, which in our view would involve the breakdown of the single social security fund, and as a result of one of the interterritorial elements of solidarity that we have in our country, but beyond that we have launched the Joint Transfer Commission, which had not met for a few years, and we have started to catalogue and schedule many of the outstanding transfers in the Gernika Statute. What I can tell you, then, is that I agree with half, or rather with a large part, with that assertion that we have to comply with the Gernika Statute. Mrs Oramas, more than with the tone and with the things you have said, I am left with that final appeal that you have made to the cooperative role that the Canary Coalition has always played in the Congress of Deputies. I pick up the glove and I say to you that we will be happy to understand with you, to fulfil our commitments to the Canary Islands, and without a doubt to acknowledge the positive contribution that the Canarian Coalition Parliamentary Group has always made to governance in Spain, and - of course - logically with the Socialist Party when we had the honour of being able to lead and govern the country. Mr. Baldoví, you have spoken of the ministries I have offered or have not offered. I have another way of negotiating, I don't say things in public. That doesn't mean I'm proposing... [[Applauds]] If you want to dialogue, negotiate and reach an agreement you do not come here and say the things that you want and that you have asked for, let alone disqualify by saying that they are political decorative that are undoubtedly important for progressive parties or left parties, as one of those formations can be described, with which I will not do so. I'm sorry I can't satisfy that legitimate demand that you make for me, but I can guarantee you one thing or two. One of them is that I started by saying that there was no coalition government and today I assumed that there is going to be coalition government. You'll understand at least something I've moved, that I've tried to reach an agreement. And secondly, that none of the policies of the Government of Spain like none of the policies of the Government of the Valencian Community are decorative. They're not. From there, if we leave aside the differences and disqualifications on the proposals that can be made, perhaps we can come to an agreement. You say that in my speech yesterday morning I did not wink at my potential partners and you have somehow felt challenged by this issue. I'm sorry, Mr. Baldoví. When we talk about social rights, about the recovery of many of the social rights, which have been called into question by the previous administration and certainly also by the economic crisis, or even the approach of widening that radio of civil rights and freedoms in our country, of telling the ultra-right and the conservative bench that we are not going to allow a step back on issues that can identify different progressive formations, perhaps you think they are not winks, but I just need to blink with both eyes to see that we are doing quite a few winks and quite a few approaches aligned with other progressive forces. Mr Baldoví, the most important is the content, the most important are the policies that are being implemented. That is the most important thing, and it should be the beginning of all negotiations and not the reverse, above all saying that one wants to enter the government little less than to be the jury guard of the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] Mr. Sayas, from Navarra Suma, excuse me. It was a lapsus. You're actually right. Where is he, I don't see him? Sometimes I confuse the far right with Citizens and the People's Party. [[Laughter]] It was indeed with the People's Party and with Citizens with whom he presented himself in Navarre. [[Applauds]] In any case, be calm, Your Honor, because I have spoken to Mrs Chivite and I know the Socialist Party of Navarre well. It is a party that if something is going to safeguard, unlike its partners who question Navarra's forality, it is Navarra's forality, and consequently the coexistence in Navarra. [[Rumors.-Mrs. Rodríguez Hernández: What about the annexation?-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Candidate. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u54	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, for many of you it is your first parliamentary term. I look for my group, but also for others obviously, and I'm sure that when they entered this room and took up their seats for the first time they felt the same emotion that I or any of us have had some more time in Congress. But, ladies and gentlemen, the Congress of Deputies is not this building. Parliament is not the seat on which they sit today. Parliament is the place where we, the Members of Parliament, meet, negotiate and decide on policies. What we do here depends on the future of all Spaniards; Spaniards who are looking at us today, waiting for us to do our job. This ability to find us is what makes sense to this House and what sustains our democracy, but today it is also a functional imperative. If anything is clear in the Spanish political landscape, it is that we are obliged to understand each other. It has been said over and over that it does not agree with those who already agree, but that it does agree with those with whom there are disagreements. It is true, but that pact and agreement are built, because, despite the differences, there is a fund that we share and that makes a bridge between us. That is the background in which we must know how to find ourselves; not in renouncing our principles, but in something much more humble: in recognizing the dignity of the adversary and in the firm will to listen to us and also to understand us. I know that sometimes there is noise, that the discussions can be very bitter we all know how hard to negotiate and that dialogue is often not simple, because it requires us to give in, to be brave and to move our limits, to be willing not only to listen to the other's reasons, but also to understand them and to make decisions that cost. This is what this is about. Refusing to speak is simple, but it is that tireless and laborious will of the agreement that defines us as democrats, and that we maintain that will to find ourselves far transcends the corridors and walls of this House and influences the political tone of our democracy and our fellow citizens. I would like to begin by expressing my thanks and that of my group to the other parliamentary groups that have wanted to engage in dialogue; to those with whom we have been able to reach an understanding, but also to those who have opened themselves up to negotiation, even if we keep the disagreements firm, as has been seen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are here to decide whether Spain has a government. That is our responsibility, and for that they chose each of the 350 Members we sit in this House. Giving a Government to Spain is the first of the mandates of this new Congress. The citizens were clear on April 28. The Socialist Party has a responsibility to form a government, but also the other parties, all of you, ladies and gentlemen, have a responsibility, because we must all ensure the general interest, and we do not serve the general interest by preventing Spain from having a government. The general interest is not served by blocking the Government of Spain without a viable alternative. And there is no such thing, ladies and gentlemen; there is no viable alternative to Pedro Sánchez as President of the Government. [[Applauds]] Refusing to negotiate and engage in dialogue is not a demonstration of coherence, even if some pretend to tell us otherwise, it is a test of weakness, and very little trusts in its principles a politician if he does not even dare to expose them by dialogue. With the formation of this House and the task of electing President, we started a new political journey, but we did not start from scratch, and I have heard this many times. In the elections the Spaniards have supported a political project that began on June 1, 2018, with the first motion of successful censorship of democracy, a day that ended the period of paralysis and institutional degradation in which Spain was subdued under the government of the People's Party. I was listening here to many parliamentary groups say: we did it for free. What we did was a democratic obligation, was to end corruption in Moncloa. That is why nobody asked for anything, because it was a democratic obligation; that is why, ladies and gentlemen, unless you are trying to say something else now. [[Applauds]] Since June 1, the PSOE has been working on a country project up to the twenty-first century, leading the major challenges we face: building a fairer country; ending inequality; restoring our position in Europe; moving towards a green economy; moving towards a feminist society - yes, feminist - in which women are on an equal footing with men, no more or less. I am particularly proud of an executive in which more than half are women of great value, professional and political, and again it has been a socialist government that has marked that milestone in the history of our democracy. To continue this project has been what citizens have mostly supported in the ballot boxes. With this citizen support we began, after the commission of the head of state, contacts with most of the political forces to add the necessary support, and we did so with two very clear premises: the first, that United We can have been our preferred partner, Mr. Iglesias, in the last year, and we have the will to keep it; the second, that there is no alternative of government to that led by the Socialist Party, and that is a reality from which we all have to leave or are committing a serious irresponsibility. We can get out of this investiture with a socialist president, as the citizens have pointed out, or with a blockade that prevents this country from getting started as soon as possible. Mr Churches, Members of Parliament and Members of the United Nations We can, yesterday the President-in-Office and candidate for the Presidency of the Government addressed to you a few words that I make. We know that nothing worth it is easy, but what we have ahead is worth a lot. We have on us the hopeful gaze of millions of compatriots, the possibility of taking forward everything that unites us, the promise of the left. You know me and you know that I have always defended that the left knows, should and can understand; we have done so for the past twelve months. And because we know how to understand the interprofessional minimum wage today is 900 euros. And because we know how to understand ourselves, there is no one in this country without access to public health, which has become universal again. Because we understand each other, we are moving forward with urgent measures for the development of the State Pact against Gender Violence. Because we know how to understand each other, because the left knows how to understand each other, we present the most social General State Budgets in history. When the left is understood the living conditions of the social majority of our country improve. And because we know all that I think it would be a mistake to turn your back on the outcome of the last elections, because there is also some denial of the election result in the attitudes we see in many of the groups in this House. Citizens voted that the measures we have been adopting since June 1, 2018 are the way forward. I am aware that we have deep discrepancies in some important issues, but we also know for sure, because we have demonstrated it these twelve months, that there is a path to understanding. It would be a historic mistake not to form a progressive government, especially because there are millions of citizens who cannot wait, because their problems need to be solved as soon as possible. That must be our spirit; that is the spirit of the Socialist Party in this debate, to help so many families who were orphaned after so many years of cuts by the People's Party and attacks on that welfare state, which is the largest heritage on the left. That, Mr. Churches, is far beyond legitimate party interests. Now is not the time to return to reproaches and catastrophic scenarios. It is time to form a left-wing government. You said yesterday that we must build a stable majority, and we agree. We can build a more stable majority; we have plenty of reasons to move it forward and a real basis on which to support it. A few months ago we signed a budget agreement. What agreement is wider than that? We have the basis to meet and we have shown - as I said - that we know how to do it, that we can do it. There are options to allow Spain to have a left-wing government, and our voters would also not understand that we would not reach an agreement. We keep the door open to forming a coalition government. We await you on that proposal. I think that's what our voters expect from us. And we do, gentlemen of the United Nations. We can, knowing that we do not add an absolute majority between the two parliamentary forces. We do so knowing that there are substantial differences that were reported during yesterday's and this morning's debate. Precisely because I do not want to fall into reproaches or catastrophic scenarios I will ask you to respect this centenary party, to respect it; because, look, you are not the proof of the cotton on the left of my party, you are not. [[Applauds]] In this party, which has done so much, which does so much and which will do so much for a more just, freer and more egalitarian society, what we need are not guardians of the essences of the left; what we need are loyal partners. I take the opportunity to greet from this rostrum my colleague, Concha Andreu, who accompanies us here today, and who today is not president of the Community of La Rioja for the maximalism of a deputy who said: they want us to carry their bags. [[applause]] And that reminds me a lot of 'decorated mother' stuff. It reminds me a lot of one thing to the other, gentlemen of the Unidad Podemos. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mazón, the group I represent, the Socialist Group, thanks you for your excellent willingness from the outset to reach this agreement, to understand us in the House, as we already do in the Cantabria Parliament, as we do in the Cantabria Government itself, as we do in many cantabria municipalities that we govern together with you, and in this case also with Mr Revilla - as I said before - in the Autonomous Community. This understanding is not new; and believe me when I say to you and the president of Cantabria, Mr.Revilla, that we will act with loyalty, as this party has always done, towards that commitment which our two parties maintain. Mr Baldoví, spokesman for a formation with which we have been improving the lives of the Valencians for four years, and we are going to continue to do so for the next four years from the institutions of the Generalitat and also from here - I trust that from here too - I believe we have bases, and I really say this to you, Mr Baldoví - you and I know each other very well - for an agreement that facilitates a left-wing government. Mr Esteban, as I always thank you for your tone and the position of your party. Several speakers, Mr Rufián, the President of the Government, you too, both centenary parties, with which we also govern in many places in Euskadi, reminded us of this. We have shown on many occasions that we know how to understand each other and it is not easy. We know that reaching agreements is difficult, but also that we are both reliable partners and when we reach an agreement it is done by both sides. We have also shown that we understand dialogue as a fundamental tool for reaching agreements, although it is not easy many times. You have played a decisive role in the motion of censure and I am pleased that you have decided to continue this path that we can share, a path of understanding and sensitivity to the needs of the social majority of this country. I want to address the Republican Left of Catalonia, his spokesman, Mr. Rufián. As the President of the Government did, I thank him for the tone, responsibility and disposition that he has shown in the discussions we have held these weeks; also today in the debate he had with the President of the Government. Nobody misses the differences that exist between the two parties - we have also found them in the meetings that we have held - and that they are policies that separate us from the model of state, but I want to say that in this way of dialogue and respect always of the constitutional framework, of respect for our Constitution, of respect for the Statute of Catalonia I am convinced that there is a space to overcome barriers, Mr Rufián, especially in those social matters in which we share left-wing sensibilities, and you also demonstrated it in these twelve months of government supporting, as you recalled, 28 of the 29 royal decrees. So we were already able to do so in the past legislature with the approval of these royal decrees, and I am convinced that we have a social agenda on which we can work. And if we are able to lower the tone of the discrepancy, as we have seen here today and in recent weeks, I am convinced that we will be able to reach important understandings for all of Spain and also obviously for Catalonia. I think that is the spirit with which the Republican Left comes to this debate and is the spirit of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. I know it's not easy for either of the two formations, because they separate a lot of things from us. We have always had the hand extended to dialogue, Mr Rufián, can tell you - I know you know it - Mr Tardà, and on that path I am convinced that we are going to meet. Mrs Oramas, the truth is that you should be among those who have decided that Spain has a government that has elected the citizens, and I say this sincerely because I know you and I know your career and that of your party, and I am surprised by your position in this investiture. I am surprised because you have always shown your commitment to the governance of Spain, and you also reported it in your speech. I hope they're rehabilitating. This group will always keep open the way of understanding for a party like yours, which has historically been a voice of responsibility in this House. I told you a moment ago that from this investiture you can go out with a government or with a blockade that prevents this country from starting, because those are the options that we have on the table, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rivera - government or blockade - and they will not disappear as much as you strive to look elsewhere. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, the party I represent is one hundred and forty years old. In all this time we have been through many things and our history has intertwined with the very history of freedom in Spain. We have fought for a fairer country and we have been persecuted, imprisoned and killed for it, and here you are going to allow me to give you a little thought, because yesterday you were again trying to throw terrorism at us politically. I'm only going to give you a thought: I had colleagues in Euskadi, in Navarre and in the streets of Spain who were playing their life when you were the only one playing was a cold for getting undressed in election posters. [[Applauds]] So a little respect when I talk about bravery and defending freedoms in this country. We have ruled this country for more years than any other party in democracy, we have lost and we have won elections, because that is democracy. Your organization, Mr Rivera, is much more recent, and if I may remind you of something that Ramon Rubial said from a path of defense and sacrifice for democracy: Elections are won and lost; the important thing is not to lose the soul, because if you lose the soul you will end up losing everything. [[Applauds]] Mr. Rivera, where is your soul? Where's his soul? Where is he? What have you done with your soul? You said you were coming to dignify the institutions. To dignify institutions is to refuse to speak to those who have won the elections and whom the head of state has entrusted to him to form a government? You came to regenerate political life, but you have ended up being the crutch of the People's Party in Castile and León after thirty-two years of the People's Party, in Murcia after twenty-four years of the People's Party, in Madrid after twenty-four years of the People's Party. Was this your political regeneration, Mr. Rivera? [[Applauds]] You call yourselves liberals, but you have dedicated yourselves to opening the door to the far right with agreements so shameful that you do not even dare to call them by their name, agreements that call down your European partners and that, by the way and after listening to Mr Abascal yesterday, you too should be ashamed of yourself. [[Applauds]] You have come so close to the far right, Mr Rivera, that you have lost your references, and I will explain it to you in a simple way. Homophobia must be combated, not those who manifest themselves against homophobia. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Hernández: Condemn it you]] It is necessary to combat machismo, not those who manifest themselves against machismo. [[Applauds]] They have gone so far to the right that they have bought the soul of that far right that they draw up black lists and pursue human rights defenders. You will be very neoliberal in economics, but in saying barbarities - and yesterday was an example - you approach the monopoly, and that is already old and petty, that of turning the victims into executioners, Mr Rivera. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Hernández: That's what you do.]] Please don't put the chicken up today, that's what they already do in the demonstrations. [[Applauds]] Citizens have become the party that now deals, in fact, with a reactionary and anti-European formation; and I do not say this, says the one who was his candidate for mayor of Barcelona. The costs to Spain of its strategy are too high; and I do not say so, says an ex-parliamentary of its party and member of its executive who, out of consistency with its principles, left his seat. I do not understand that you put alleged party interests before the general interests of Spain; and I do not say that, Mr Rivera, one of the founders of your party says that. In politics you can win or lose, but you cannot lose your soul, because with it you leave many things and many people. And if that's what you're looking for, I'm sure you're going to get a lot of votes too, Mr. Rivera. We call on them to return to responsibility even if it is not worth it at all; but we call on them to abandon that strategy of confrontation, of radicalisation in which they have embarked their party with the rest of the parliamentary forces but also with much of society. What is the point of blocking the formation of a government that has been voted by citizens and for which there is no alternative? What is your proposal for Spanish citizens? They don't have it, they don't have it. The problem is that you have no choice. Mr Rivera, I told you at the beginning: Everyone, absolutely everyone and everyone in this House has a responsibility to the citizens, we have a responsibility to ensure that Spain has a government. We don't ask them to vote, we don't. We only tell you and Mr Casado to act with the sense of state that they are supposed to be, although what we are actually seeing in this session is that you are only constitutional mouthpieces and only mouthpieces of statemen. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Mr Casado, optimism always has a project, pessimism always has a pretext. And the truth is that you don't tire of threatening all kinds of evils that never come, it's already a constant in your interventions, Mr. Married. They talked about the effect called by migration policy, and the reality is that illegal immigration has been reduced by 27%. They spoke little less than about the collapse of the economy by the rise of the minimum wage, and the reality is that international agencies revised their forecasts upwards. Now they anticipate all the evils again, and reality will bring them back to reason, because, as the candidate said yesterday, our best moment has not passed, our moment is yet to come. You said yesterday that you cannot facilitate the investiture by consistency. I wonder: By consistency with what, with the will of the Spaniards? They were very clear not on one but on four occasions: they want the Socialist Party to rule. Consistency with what? Believe me, I'm looking for you, Mr. Married, and I can't find you. [[Rumors]] With your own ideas? I'm going to propose an imaginary exercise. Imagine, Mr. Casado, that the PSOE takes out the PP 52 seats and 2.5 million votes. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Sounds to you, doesn't it? It sounds to him, because they're his own words. Three years ago I was saying that if the PSOE took out 52 seats and 2.5 million votes, no one could understand you blocking the PSOE leader's investiture. Do your principles expire at three years, Mr. Married? [[Laughs.-Applause.]] When you said that you were right about one thing, but you were wrong about other things. He was wrong because it's not 52, it's 57, and it's not 2.5 million votes but more than 3 million. But he was right, Mr Casado, because no one understands that they prevent the formation of government, even more so when, I repeat, there is no viable alternative to an investiture of Pedro Sánchez, there is no such alternative. Let's be clear. I can understand the interest of your party, I can understand it. I understand that you look back at Rivera and you don't want her to take advantage of you unlocking this situation, just like Rivera looks back at you. The problem is that the price of their distrust is very high, and it is paid by all Spaniards. And it's a dilemma, Mr. Married, especially for a party that knows what the responsibility is to govern. The will of the citizens expressed in the ballot box is very clear: the PSOE adds the same seats as the second and third political forces together. And that's why you have to make a decision, you have to choose whether thinking about the general interest unlocks this situation or whether it contributes to the irresponsibility to leave Spain without government. [[Rumors]] And believe me, people understand the decisions that are made for the general interest and know how to recognize it when the time comes. The PP, Mr. Married, cannot, must not act as an anti-system party when the governability of the nation is at stake. [[Rumors]] By the way, some of your citizens' scarecrows are getting hit, because they won't let me talk. Mimeticism is already a matter... [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, in December 2018 our country ceased to be an exception in Europe because the ultra-right broke into the Spanish institutions. He did so in the Parliament of Andalusia with a reactionary speech that had not been heard in Spain for four decades. He did so by spreading a hate speech that aims to question such basic consensus as that regarding the existence of a macho violence that takes the life of a woman every six days, women with names and surnames murdered by violence that the ultra-right denies exists, which aims to dilute into confused categories. It is a hate speech that has recently also targeted the LGTB collective. As in the worst times of our history, they are trying to intimidate and harass workers and activists, whose work deserves the admiration and gratitude of my entire parliamentary group. Let them know that they are not alone and that we will not allow them to be harassed. [[Applauds]] There is no doubt that the first responsible for these hate messages are those who spread them, but also those who silence, tolerate, consent and agree, Mr Rivera, and agree; those parties that placed the far right on an equal footing in the shameful photo of Columbus, when a manifesto full of lies was read and the People's Party and Citizens came from the hand of all the far right, of VOX, of Social Home, of the Spanish Falange. [[applause]] The greatest triumph of that extreme right has been granted to you by letting you mark the political agenda, you have given it to you by making agreements with them that you do not even dare to publish, you have given it to you in everything you have asked for: photos, agreements, pacts and whatever it takes to get your votes to govern municipalities and autonomous communities. They've sold their soul, they've sold it. [[Protests.-Several Members: Ohhh!-Applause]] He misses his patriotism, which seeks to protect his power plot by trampling on the rights of his compatriots. You have rejected the parties of the stretched hand and have chosen those of the raised arm. [[Protests.-Applause.]] They have chosen those who preach a way of confrontation who know perfectly where it comes from, but even more serious is that they know where it leads. No future has been built on such a dark past, no community has been built by dividing, no freedom has been built on hate speech. Ladies and gentlemen, the decision of the citizens in the last elections has been indisputable and we have been sent a strong message: We do not want to back down, we want an open, feminist and ecological society where we all fit and we want a government led by the Socialist Party. Citizens have exercised their responsibility by voting, it is now up to the groups in this House to carry out their mandate; no one would understand it to be otherwise. Of course, the defense of party interest is legitimate, but the answers the country wants are not about who the government should lead - that they already decided with their vote -, what they want are answers to fight unemployment, to ensure decent pensions, to end labour exploitation and inequality, so that access to housing is not just a right but a fact. The candidate for the Presidency of the Government has submitted a draft with answers to all these questions with a markedly social vocation in which we can find ourselves the progressive forces. The project led by Pedro Sánchez is the one that can get the most support in this House, because it has been decided by more than 7 million people. I am convinced that the project you are leading is the best for our country, but even those who do not share that position must acknowledge that there is no alternative government project. No one would understand that this week ends in any other way than with that government that has elected the citizens, with a government led by Pedro Sánchez. In his investiture speech, the candidate has also pointed out something particularly important. We enter a new time in which the old dynamics of confrontation and lack of collaboration will no longer serve. Some say we're doomed to understand each other. I mean, we have a chance to understand each other. I think that is what citizens expect of us, and this is the time to do so. Mr. Iglesias, do we agree that the Spanish have decent jobs and pensions? Do we agree that this country needs to adapt to the digital revolution? Do we agree that an ecological transition is necessary to deal with the climate emergency we are in? Do we agree that Spain needs a feminist government? Do we agree on the urgency of combating exclusion and poverty? This is Sanchez's plan, this is Sanchez's only plan. [[Applauds]] These are the proposals, among many others, that the candidate disengaged yesterday. They're all reasons for agreeing. Mr. Iglesias, wrote the poet Ángel González, my countryman, some verses that I do today and which say: 'It is not good to repeat what is said. / After having spoken, / having shed tears, / silence and smile: / nothing is the same. / There will be new words for the new story / and you have to find them before it's late.' Thank you so much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the Government in office, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u55	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lastra. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u56	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Lastra, Adriana, for the words she has spoken, for the brilliant speech she has made, with which we have all felt recognized; of course, of course we have. [[Several Members: Ooooh!]] [[Applauds]] Naturally, I would also like to thank the Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group for their support, who are going to vote in favour of my candidacy for the presidency of the Government. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that in recent months things have happened for the first time in the history of our democracy. It was the first time in the history of democracy that a motion of censure came into being, and it is true that I also led it. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u57	Keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u58	And it is also true that I run the risk of being the first candidate for the Presidency of the Government to suffer two failed investments in the history of democracy. It will not be because I have not tried - it is true that I have always encountered the same obstacle - but the only thing I appeal to is the responsibility and generosity of all. Look, I do not lose hope, and I do not lose hope in the 350 Members, because, unlike the message or image that we can convey after this investiture session, the debate that we have had so much on and on some occasions so intense during these two days of sitting, I do claim the capacity of agreement that the Spanish political class has. We have it, we've had it for the last forty years. Many of the parties that we are present here, in particular the People's Party and the Socialist Party, both when governing the Socialist Party and when governing the People's Party, have signed very important State pacts for freedom and also for the security of our nation, such as the State pacts against ETA terrorism and, without a doubt, also against international terrorism. We have reached agreements in the last 12 months with many parliamentary forces present here with different faces because either they have reduced the number of parliamentarians or they have increased them. With the United Party We can, with Citizens, with nationalist parties, with independentist parties, also with the People's Party we have reached agreements in real decree-laws that were important. That is, I do defend the ability to agree that we have all the political forces that we are present in the House. What's the problem? The problem is not the capacity for agreement and dialogue that all 350 Members of Parliament have. The problem is, on the one hand, structural, and hence the first proposal I make to the House that once the legislature starts to run, we can amend Article 99 of our Constitution so that when the Spaniards are called to the polls they know that when the investiture plenary is held, a government will emerge from that investiture plenary and that, therefore, there is no threat of an electoral repetition. [[rumors]] That as point one, and as point two, ladies and gentlemen, the only thing I appeal to is the People's Party, its responsibility, the Group of Citizens to put aside sectarianism, and also the Group of the United Nations We can, its generosity and its responsibility. If we do so, I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that we will be able to reach many agreements, many agreements in areas that are important to the everyday life of citizens. But the most important thing is that Spain has a government, the most important thing is that democracy starts working fully, and for it to start working fully we need a government and an opposition, we need to get the legislature going. The option, the disjunctive is quite simple, ladies and gentlemen, the disjunctive is whether we want government or not, whether we want legislature or blockage, whether we want stability or whether we want elections to take place on 10 November. I, of course, want a government, I want stability and I want it to be a legislature. I want government, stability and legislature, and that is what I am also asking your ladies and gentlemen: government, stability and legislature. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the Government in office, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Candidate. We shall begin voting in five minutes. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, once the debate is over, we shall proceed to the vote on the granting of confidence to the candidate proposed by His Majesty the King. As set out in the Rules of Procedure of the House in Rule 85.2, the vote shall be made public by appeal. Your ladies and gentlemen will answer yes, no or abstention from your seat when they are called by the secretaries, who will read the names from the speaker's rostrum. I ask you to answer the appeal with a clear and audible voice, although the secretaries who call them will repeat the meaning of the vote in order to avoid difficulties. The appeal is made in alphabetical order, but beginning with the first name of the honourable Member whose name has been drawn by lot, who was the name of Mrs Marisol Sánchez Jódar. The Government in office and the Bureau shall vote at the end. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote will begin. I ask the Secretary to begin the appeal first. The secretaries of the Bureau make an appeal to the ladies and gentlemen, who are expressing the sense of their vote. Ladies and gentlemen of the House who said 'yes': Sánchez Jódar, Marisol Sancho Íñiguez, Herminio Rufino Sarriá Morell, Vicent Manuel Saura García, Pedro Close Parent, David Serrano Martínez, Juan Francisco Seva Ruiz, Yolanda Sicily Ensign, Philip Jesus Simancas Simancas, Rafael Simon Marin, Joseph Soler Mur, Alejandro Soto Murillo, Juan Luis Sumelzo Jordan, Susana Vicente Viondi, Daniel Vilches Ruiz, María Luisa Villagrasa I want, Naomi Zamarron Moreno, Agustín Zaragoza Alonso, José Aceves Galindo, José Luis Alfonso Cendón, Javier Alonso García, María Luisa Alonso Suárez, María Olga Andrés Añón, Carmen Andrés Barea, Josefa Antón Cacho, Javier Aranda Vargas, Francisco Arangüena Fernández, Pablo Berja Vega, Laura Blanquer Alcaraz, Patricia Botella Gómez, Ana Maria Bravo Boat, Eva Well Campanario, Eva Patricia Knight Gutiérrez, Helena Calva Ruiz, Maria Jesús Campo Moreno, Juan Carlos Canales Duque, Mariana de Gracia Cancel Rodriguez, Pilar Carrera de Castro, Zaida Carrillo de los Reyes, Beatriz Micaela Cerdán León, Santos Clemente Guadilla, Luis Corredor Sierra, María Beatriz Crespin Rubio, Rafaela Four houses Asua, Juan Diouf Dioh, Luc Andre Durán Peralta, José Carlos Elorza González, Odón Faneca López, María Luisa Fernández Benitez, Andrea Fernández Casaro, Ana Belén Ferrer Treasure, Sonia Franco Pardo, José Manuel García Chavarría, María Montserrat García Gómez, Valentín García López, Maribel García Morís, Roberto Gomez Hernández, Hector González Caballero, Miguel Ángel González Pérez, Ariagona González Ramos, Manuel Gabriel Lopez War, Sonia Guijarro Ceballos, Maria Guinart Moreno, Lydia Gutiérrez Prieto, Sergio Izquierdo Roncero, José Javier Lamuà Estañol, Marc Lastra Fernández, Adriana Loyal Fernández, Isaura Lima Cid, Fuensanta López Álvarez, Patxi López Cano, Ignacio Lopez Left, Sonsoles López Zamora, Cristina Máñez Rodríguez, Elena Marí Klose, Pau Marra Dominguez, María Ángeles Marrodán Funes, Maria Martínez Seijo, María Luz Mazón Ramos, José María Meijón Couselo, Guillermo Antonio Mínguez García, Montse Montilla Martos, José Antonio Morlà Florit, Pau Narváez Flag, Maria Dolores Nasarre Oliva, Begoña Ortega Otero, Marina Padilla Ruiz, Esther Peña Camarero, Esther Perea and Conillas, María Mercè Pérez Abelás, Adolfo Polo Llavata, Francisco Pons Sampietro, Pere Joan Nieto's friend, Ana. Ramírez Carner, Arnau Ramon Utrabo, Elvira Ramos Esteban, Caesar Joaquin Ramos Rodríguez, José Luis Raya Rodríguez, Maria Tamara Renau Martínez, Germán Rodríguez Salas, José Antonio Romingera Salazar, María del Mar Ros Martínez, Susana Ruiz and Carbonell, Joan Ruiz López, María Concepción Sahuquillo García, Luis Carlos Salazar Rodríguez, Francisco José Sánchez Escobar, Mariano Ladies and gentlemen of the House who said 'no': Sánchez Pérez, Caesar Santamaría Ruiz, Luis Sayas López, Sergio Suárez Lamata, Eloy Telechea i Lozano, Carolina Ten Oliver, Vicente Taken away Ochoa, Vicente Toscano de Balbín, Carla Hate Bengoechea, Edurne Valmaña Ochaíta, Silvia Vazquez Blanco, Ana Belén Velasco Morillo, Elvira Villegas Pérez, José Manuel Zurita Exposito, Ana Maria Abascal Conde, Santiago Adam of Peace, Mary Angels Almodóbar Barceló, Agustín Alonso-Cuevillas and Sayrol, Jaume Alvarez de Toledo Peralta-Ramos, Cayetana Back to top García, Inés Arteaga Espinosa de los Monteros, María Dolores French Ball, Edmundo Bartolomé Cachón, José Antonio Bassa Coll, Montserrat Beltran Villalba, Ana Maria Bermúdez de Castro Fernández, José Antonio Betoret Coll, Vicente White Garrido, Ma Mar Bonilla Dominguez, Mary Jesus You'll erase Castanyer, Laura. Borrego Cortés, Isabel María Head Houses, Thomas Calderón Díaz, María José Calvo García, Eduardo Cambronero Piqueras, Pablo Cano Leal, Francisco Javier Cañigueral Olivé, Laia I'm sure you're welcome, Joan. Dantas oak, Maria Married White, Pablo Casaro Ávila, Alberto Chamorro Delmo, Ricardo Clavell López, Oscar I answered Rossello, Magdalena Margarita Cortés Fernández, Juan José Cruz-Guzmán García, María Soledad De la Torre Díaz, Francisco From Meer Méndez, Rocío From Paramo Gómez, Fernando From Fifth Romero, Marcos De Campo Estaún, Sergio Del Moral Leal, María Luisa Delgado Arce, Celso Luis Diaz Gómez, Guillermo Dominguez Paredes, María Victoria Echaniz Salgado, José Ignacio Eritja Ciuro, Francesc Xavier Berzal Squadron, Beatriz Marta Spain Queen, Carolina Mirror-Saavedra Conesa, José María Spine of the Mounts of Simon, Ivan Esteban Calonje, Cristina Alicia Fernández González, Justo Fernández Hernández, Pedro Fernández-Bravo García, Francisco Javier Figaredo Álvarez-Sala, José María Bago Bugarín, Diego Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo, Conception Garaulet Rodríguez, Miguel Ángel Garcés Sanagustín, Mario García Adanero, Carlos García Díez, Joaquín María García Aegean, Theodoro García Molina, Javier Aureliano García Rodríguez, Alicia García Tejerina, Isabel García-Pelayo Jurado, María José Garriga Vaz de Concicao, Ignacio Gasquez Collado, Paloma Gil Lazarus, Ignacio Gimenez Gimenez, Sara Vidal Swivel, Juan Carlos Gomez Balsera, Marcial Gomez del Moral Fuster, Gerard Gómez García, Rodrigo Gomez González, Rubén González Guinda, María del Carmen González Taño, María Guadalupe González Terol, Antonio González Vázquez, Marta Granollers Cunillera, Inés Guillen Figuerola, Lourdes Gutiérrez Díaz de Otazu, Fernando Adolfo Gutiérrez Vivas, Miguel Ángel Beautiful Ayuso, Carlos Hernández Bento, María del Carmen Hernandez Blázquez, Roberto Hernandez Muñoz, Manuel Herrero Bono, José Alberto Hervías Chirosa, Francisco Javier Hole Juliá, Bethlehem Jiménez-Becerril Barrio, María Teresa Julià Julià, María Sandra López-Bas Valero, Juan Ignacio Lorite Lorite, Andrés Marcos Ortega, Miracles Margall Sastre, Joan Marshal Anaya, Guillermo Mariscal Zabala, Manuel Martin Llaguno, Marta Martínez Ferro, María Valentina Martínez González, José Luis Martínez Granados, María Carmen Matarí Sáez, Juan José May Alonso, Soraya Mejias Sánchez, Carina Mendez Monastery, Lourdes Mesquida Ferrando, Joan Master Barea, Manuel Millán Salmerón, María Virginia Miquel and Valenti, Sergi Mirón Canelo, José Antonio Moneo Diez, Maria Sandra Montesinos Aguayo, Pablo Montesinos de Miguel, Macarena Moraleja Gómez, Tristan Maria Moreno Latorre, Joaquin Moro Alamaraz, Maria Jesús Movellán Lombilla, Diego Moya Sanz, Maria Amparo Vidal Muñoz, Maria Nacarino-Brabo Jiménez, Aurora Navarro Lacoba, Carmen Nugueras and Camero, Miriam Nuet Pujals, Joan Josep Olano Vela, Jaime Eduardo de Olona Choclán, Macarena Oramas González-Moro, Ana María Ortega Smith-Molina, Francisco Javier Pino Ocampo, Beatriz Píriz Maya, Victor Valentín Prohens Rigo, Margarita Pujol i Farré, Norma Ramírez del Río, José Ramírez Freire, Saul Riolobos Regadera, Carmen Rivera Andrés, Irene Rivera de la Cruz, Marta María Rivera Díaz, Albert Rivero Ortega, Enrique Victor Robles López, Joaquín Rodriguez Hernández, Melisa Rojas García, Carlos Romero Sánchez, Rosa María Romero Vilches, Mary of the Kings Rosado Peinado, María Ángeles Rosety Fernández de Castro, Agustín Rosique i Saltor, Marta Wheel Perello, Patricia Rufián Romero, Gabriel Ruiz Solás, María de la Cabeza Sáez Alonso-Muñumer, Pablo Salvador i Duch, Jordi Sánchez del Real, Victor Manuel Ladies and gentlemen of the House who said 'abstention': Sánchez Serna, Javier Santiago Romero, Enrique Fernando Uriaarte Torrealday, Roberto Velarde Gomez, Martina Vera Ruíz-Herrera, Noelia Vidal Sáez, Aina Agirretxea Ursti, Joseba Andoni Aizpurua Arzallus, Mertxe Asens Llodra, Jaume Baldoví Roda, Joan Barandiaran Benito, Íñigo Belarus Urteaga, Ione Courtesy Gómez, Ismael Delgado Ramos, Juan Antonio Díaz Pérez, Yolanda Echenique Robba, Pablo Esteban Bravo, Aitor Fernández Castañón, Sofia Franco Carmona, Isabel Freixanet Mateo, Maria García Orta, Alejandro García Puig, María del Mar García Sempere, Eva Garrido Gutiérrez, Pilar Garzón Espinosa, Alberto Gómez-Reino Varela, Antonio Gorospe Elezcano, Josune Gorrotxategi Azurmendi, Miren Guijarro García, Txema Honrubia Hurtado, Pedro Antonio Iglesias Turrión, Pablo Illueca Ballester, Hector Iñarritu García, Jon Jover Díaz, Antonia Legarda Uriarte, Mikel López de Uralde Garmendia, Juan Antonio Master Moliner, Roser Marquez Guerrero, Maria Matute García de Jalón, Oskar Mayoral Perales, Rafael Mena Arca, Joan Muñoz Dalda, Lucia Pérez Díaz, María Teresa Pérez Merino, Mercedes Pita Cárdenes, María del Carmen Rodríguez Rodríguez, Alberto Rosell Aguilar, Maria Victoria Ruiz de Pinedo Undiano, Iñaki Saavedra Muñoz, Marisa Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea, Idoia Ladies and gentlemen who voted 'no' telematically: Montero Gil, Irene Maria Government members in office who said 'yes': Sánchez Pérez-Castejon, Pedro Calvo Poyato, Carmen Delgado García, Dolores Robles Fernández, Margarita Square Mount, Mary Jesus Grand-Marlaska Gómez, Fernando Abalos Meco, José Luis Celaá Diéguez, Isabel Valerio Cordero, Magdalena Maroto Illera, Reyes Planas Puchades, Luis Ribera Rodríguez, Teresa Guirao Cabrera, José Carcedo Roces, María Luisa Duke Duke, Pedro Members of the Bureau who said 'yes': Hernanz Costa, Sofia Rodríguez Gómez de Celis, Alfonso Batet Lamaña, Meritxell Members of the Bureau who said 'no': Reyes Rivera, Patricia Suárez Illana, Adolfo Take Take, José Ignacio Pastor Julián, Ana Maria Members of the Bureau who said 'abstention': Pisarello Prados, Gerardo Elizo Serrano, Maria Gloria
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u60	Thank you very much. Are there any honourable Members who have not been appointed to vote? [[Denial]] Consequently, the votes cast shall be scrutinised. [[Pause]] "End of scrutiny," he said.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-23-CD190723.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, the result of the vote was as follows: votes cast, 346; votes in favour, 124; votes against, 170; abstentions, 52. Ladies and gentlemen, having failed to reach the proposed candidate by an absolute majority, the same proposal should be put to a new vote forty-eight hours after the previous one, in accordance with Article 99.3 of the Constitution. The plenary session of the House can therefore meet with the legal possibility of deciding from 1:30 p.m. next Thursday, 25 July. This Presidency therefore calls for the plenary session of the House to be held on Thursday, 25 July, at 1:30 p.m., to proceed to the second vote on the same proposal, with the anticipated outcome of the debate in no case before 2:25 p.m. on that day. The meeting rose. It was two and thirty minutes in the afternoon.
