ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. Prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall proceed to the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Don Rafael Catalá Polo, I ask Dona María Jesús Bonilla Domínguez if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u2	Yeah, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u3	In place of Don Antonio Roldán Monés, I ask Ms. Carina Mejías Sánchez if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u4	Yeah, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u5	In place of dona Blanca Fernández Morena, I ask dona Cristina López Zamora if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u6	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u7	In place of dona María Isabel Blanco Llamas, I ask dona Elvira Velasco Morillo if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u8	Yeah, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u9	Doña María Jesús Bonilla Domínguez, doña Carina Mejías Sánchez, doña Cristina López Zamora and doña Elvira Velasco Morillo have acquired the full status of deputies. Congratulations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u10	One item on the agenda is the debate on the nomination of the candidate for the Presidency of the Government. The first secretary of the House read out the proposal for a candidate for the Presidency of the Government. Mr. Secretary first, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u11	In accordance with article 99.1 of the Constitution, after consultations with the representatives appointed by the political groups with parliamentary representation, I have come to propose to the most excellent Mr. Pedro Sánchez Pérez-Castejón as a candidate for the presidency the Government, which I communicate to your excellence so that the Congress of Deputies can be formulated the timely proposal. Palacio de la Zarzuela, 6 June 2019. Philip, king. The President of the Congress of Deputies, Meritxell Batet Lamaña.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u12	Thank you very much. Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejon, proposed candidate for the Presidency of the Government, has the floor. [[Prolonged applause from the Socialist Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u13	Thank you, President. Good afternoon now, ladies and gentlemen. In 1979, forty years ago, the first investiture debate in this House was held. Many of those who are present here today either had not been born or, as is my case, we were so children that we did not keep a memory of that political moment. At that time there were still those bullet holes on the roof of the Chamber, the air was full of smoke from the tobacco of the deputies - mostly men - and whoever wanted to make a call had to do it from a landline. It has been a long time, ladies and gentlemen, but the democratic ritual of the investiture that is regulated in our Constitution continues to be the same as the head of state in charge of one of the candidates, usually the one who has and represents the parliamentary majority of the House, to expose his program and ask for the confidence of the majority to form government. And this is what I intend to do over the next few days, ladies and gentlemen: to ask for your trust, to appeal to your responsibility, to appeal also to your generosity and to appeal, in the end, to the responsibility and generosity of all to ensure that Spain has Government and does not join in the blockade. Spain, as I told you, has changed a lot in these four decades. If in 1979 only 5% of its members were women, today it is 47%, the highest percentage in the European Union as a whole. If then Europe was a distant dream for our parents, mothers, grandparents and grandmothers, today Spain is a full democracy that contributes to the strengthening of our common project which is Europe. All that has been achieved has not been by chance; it has been thanks to the firm will of the Spanish people to always move forward, to look to the future, to always walk forward together and together without leaving anyone behind. In my view, ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish did so when they were called to the polls on 28 April and also on 26 May: to move forward, not to step back; to move forward in the face of clear attempts, to the more than obvious risks of involution posed by the parties that represent the conservative bench today; to move forward and not to take a step back in the face of the question being made in the public conversation of civil rights and freedoms that now represent minorities and that are unfortunately being called into question by some political forces; to move forward and not to question our model of territorial coexistence; to move forward and repudiate, with all our forces, any attempt to trivialize the violence suffered by half the population by being women. [[Applause from the Socialist Group]] I hope that this strong mandate, expressed by the Spanish on 28 April and also on 26 May, will help the two parties of the conservative bench to move away from authoritarian networks and the reactionary current that permeates European politics and, unfortunately, has also entered the Spanish Chamber. For the time being, the two conservative parties and the far right have institutionalized the photo of the Plaza de Colón in municipalities and in some autonomous communities. They forgot, ladies and gentlemen, those speeches which claimed the most voted list. They expelled from constitutionalism those political formations that do not think like them and, with the same health cord that they have put on the Socialist Party, they have put a rope to the far right and, consequently, to the Spanish political stability. Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing you on behalf of the most voted force in the general elections, on behalf of a party that accumulates more seats than the sum of the next two parliamentary forces present here - and which also has an absolute majority in the Senate - on behalf of a party that this year, in 2019, has 140 years of life and wants to carry out the mandate of the ballot box last 28 April, which is that Spain should move forward and do so with social justice. On 28 April, citizens had to choose between staying stuck in confrontation or betting on coexistence, and they said clearly that they wanted to move forward in coexistence and harmony. They understood that a country cannot move forward by leaving a part of its compatriots abandoned in exclusion, and they chose growth and prosperity, they chose social cohesion. They decided to claim exemplaryness and to remove corruption from public life, which had been the usual theme during the last mandates of the People's Party; they decided to claim exemplaryness, decided and chose to clean up politics. Coexistence, cohesion, cleanliness, this was the path chosen by citizens on April 28. They and they have already done what they should do, which is vote. What do those who deny him the only possible government offer the Spaniards? The Spanish, ladies and gentlemen, voted for a progressive government and also for a responsible opposition. It is now we who have to be useful to serve them from this House and that task begins by immediately unlocking the formation of a government. Only with one Government can there be opposition and without Government the only thing there is a vacuum of power. To that end, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to convey to you a first offer of a state pact. It is clear that Article 99 of our Constitution, which regulates, as you well know, the procedure for the inauguration of the Presidency of the Government, must be updated to the new parliamentary reality. Citizens must never again suffer the threat of an electoral repetition; with a vote it is enough. Just as the system guarantees the formation of municipal governments on 15 June, just as many autonomous statutes guarantee the formation of autonomous governments, and just as the Government of this House is guaranteed in a plenary session, so must the executive power at the national level guarantee that it can be constituted. In order to materialize this proposal, this agreement, which undoubtedly strengthens the stability of the system, I ask you to facilitate among all the formation of the Government of Spain and then to address the constitutional reform of Article 99 so that the blockade in our country will never happen again. We are not, ladies and gentlemen, choosing between left and right, between progressives and conservatives - that was already done by the Spanish on 28 April - we are choosing between whether Spain has government or not. I am not proposing, ladies and gentlemen, the weakening of the work of the opposition, which can be carried out with all the force that they consider appropriate from the moment that there is a Government in Spain. I am proposing, simply and plainly, that Spain have Government, I am proposing simply and plainly that Spain have opposition, that Spain, in short, is not blocked. Above all, ladies and gentlemen, because the world does not separate. The daily problems, the anguish, the hopes of our society and of each of the Spanish and Spanish do not stop. Young people, burdened by housing shortages, continue to suffer because there is no Government of Spain. The precariousness of a rider or the unemployment of a woman does not disappear as a result of the failure of this House to assume responsibility for a government in Spain. The loneliness of many older people who suffer in many of the cities and villages of our country continues to suffer as a result of the absence of a Government. For example, those who filed a million signatures asking for a law of euthanasia a few weeks ago to be able to die with dignity demand a clear answer. Today, not tomorrow. Yeah, not in September or October or November. I therefore propose to you to move forward with the formation of the Government mandated by the ballot boxes: a progressive Government, a European Government and an ecological and feminist Government as well. A Government that holds bridges, looks forward and is able to build the basis of the great agreements that our country demands to face the challenges that are already present; challenges in which the immediate action of the Government is essential and for which the action of the whole of society should not be lacking either. Of all the objectives we face, in my opinion there are six in which Spain is playing its present and its most immediate future; six objectives which are in line with the 2030 Agenda with which this Government has been committed in the past twelve months and without a doubt also the candidature I am presenting to you for this investiture. The first is undoubtedly the main concern of citizens: decent employment and the sustainability of the public pension system. Ladies and gentlemen, employment in Spain is suffering from structural problems which have not yet been corrected, and is suffering more forcefully in times of economic crisis. We still have a high unemployment rate, around 14.7%, it is true that it is lower than we have experienced in recent years, but it is higher than the EU average, and a high degree of long-term unemployment, which is one of the main challenges we will face in the coming years, despite the fact that we are at record levels of membership of social security contributors, with more than 19.5 million Spaniards and, above all, Spanish. Also, along with this high unemployment rate of almost 15%, as I have told you, there is a high rate of temporaryity of almost 26 %. The levels of non-voluntary part-time employment also show the chronic weaknesses of our labour market, which are particularly affected by both women and young people. Consequently, logic is quite simple. This reality of the labour market causes many Spanish and Spanish to suffer precariousness and job insecurity translates into lives in a permanent state of uncertainty. Fourteen out of every hundred people working in our country are poor workers who do not arrive at the end of the month with their wages. Self-employed workers are also exposed to threats and difficulties that have been discussed on many occasions here in the House: they suffer too much administrative burden and contribute much more than their actual monthly income. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation of so-called Kellys, Raiders or agricultural temporary workers is not small exceptions of precariousness, but structural deficiencies that we have to correct, because they are all workers who need, demand and deserve decent rights and wages. A modern economy cannot base its competitiveness on wage abuse on a part of workers or exclude one in six people of working age or one in three young people. Alongside this, we must ensure dignity in the amount, sustainability and public nature of our pension system. This legislature must light up a new Toledo Pact that safeguards the vault key of our welfare state, which is the public pension system, in a very demanding context because of the fall in the birth rate, the increase in life expectancy and, consequently, the increase in the ratio of pensioners to active workers. The question to be asked, ladies and gentlemen, is: where do we want to place Spain? Our answer, the answer that I propose to you as an investment candidate is: promoting decent employment in a competitive and sustainable economy, guaranteeing decent pensions and safeguarding the public pension system. The second challenge has to do with the digital or technological revolution alongside employment and the sustainability of the public pension system. According to data published by the OECD a few weeks ago, 21.7 % of our country's jobs are at risk of automation and therefore of disappearance; and along with 21.7 %, 30.2 % will undergo a radical transformation due to the advancement of technology. The digital revolution not only impacts on employment, which is the most important and logical thing for citizens, but it affects the essential issues that defend a progressive government such as the one we want to make up, for example, taxation, fiscal justice. A few weeks ago we learned from the media that a well-known audiovisual digital platform paid in Spain - stay with the figure - 3146 euros as company tax; and it is not the only one. This is not only unsustainable, but also undermines the most basic principles of accountability and fiscal justice. The digital revolution also affects our rights and freedoms: we have a computer that is 100 thousand times more powerful than Apollo 11 and that already knows more about us than we do for the accumulation of millions of data on the mobile itself. Therefore, the questions to be asked and asked are: who does this information belong to? Who controls this data that is becoming a factor of production as much or more important than energy, as human capital or even financial resources? Whole sectors of our economy are being restructured and adapt their models to digital platforms, but despite this, ladies and gentlemen, we continue to respond with rules of centuries past to the realities of the 21st century. In the absence of new rules, what is happening in our country and in the world is that new forms of precarious work, such as raiders, new forms of circumvention and tax evasion, such as the example I have set for them, and new forms of human rights violations of privacy and personal honour, are taking place. In this period of digital transformation, the question has to be the same as it had before for employment and the public pension system: where do we want to place Spain? Our answer is: leading in Europe, because it can only be done in Europe, the digital revolution, and protecting citizens from the power of these new monopolies. The third major challenge we face is that of the climate emergency. This is not a specific challenge of Spain, it is a challenge of the whole of humanity, but to which our country is uniquely exposed. This is demonstrated by extreme temperature episodes, droughts - this year, for example, is a paradigm of what I am explaining -, rising sea level or fires as devastating as those we have recently suffered. Air pollution kills and shortens the lives of many people a year. Is this society, ladies and gentlemen, what we want for us and also for our children and grandchildren? If we don't have a planet, what we do in other areas won't do any good. Can one furnish his house without walls or roof? That is why society and especially young people demand that we act, and that we act now; that we stop that suicidal dynamic that is eroding the house in which we live and definitely threatens to destroy it. Again, the question has to be: where do we want to place Spain in this challenge? And our response is again: leading the fight, adaptation and mitigation of climate change, turning this great challenge into what can really become and is, a great opportunity for prosperity and secure progress for the whole of Spanish citizenship. Ladies and gentlemen, the fourth challenge I would like to address relates to real and effective equality between men and women. The inequality women suffer shows their most cruel face in criminal sexism. In 2018, almost one-fifth of the homicides recorded are due to gender-based violence. In just a decade and a half, ladies and gentlemen, more than a thousand women have been murdered as a result of gender-based violence. A thousand women. This lacra has a name, it's called macho violence, and it doesn't have surnames or euphemisms, it's committed in a house or in a herd's cage. Those who want to trivialize this drama, back into the past or invent conspiracy, who have something very clear: they will have us in front of them. [[Prolonged applause from the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] The inequality that women endure is expressed in many ways; the most visible is unfair participation in the sharing of opportunities, in household responsibilities and, without a doubt, also in income; a waste of resources. According to the Ministry of Economy's own estimates, the gross domestic product in our country would grow by 15% more if the gender gap in the labour market were eradicated. Inequality is a problem of dignity, but it is also a problem of human rights; it is a problem of social progress. Therefore, the question is: where do we want to place Spain in the face of this challenge? And our answer is: being a world leader in feminism and the struggle for women's rights. The fifth challenge to which I would like to refer is that of social inequality. A few days ago we knew a scandalous figure: eight and a half million Spaniards and Spanish women are in a situation of social exclusion; half of them suffer from severe exclusion, i.e. they have insecure housing and continued job insecurity; of them, 1 800 000 are directly expelled from society, i.e. they do not have access to a decent life or reasonable hope of achieving it in the future, and all this in a country that is the fourth economy in the euro area and the thirteenth in the world. We live, therefore, in a society that does not give everyone the same opportunities, especially everyone. It is not true that inequality is a consequence of a lack of merit. Inequality is the result of system failures that need to be corrected; sometimes structural failures, such as those that lead us to have an unbearable rate of child poverty, which reaches 26.8% of children. Does anyone think that a malnourished child with a school deficit and all kinds of deficiencies can develop a life project freely? Social inequality is not just a moral scourge; logically, it also undermines our coexistence and undermines the foundations of our democracy. Therefore, the question is again the same: where do we want to place Spain? The answer I put to you is: in the front row of the fight against social inequality. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we face the challenge of strengthening Europe by maintaining the values that underpin it. The idea of a united Europe is now, without a doubt, threatened by those who have never believed in it; and not only are they outside Europe, they are also within Europe. Spain must contribute to an ideal in which our society continues to believe strongly, with great force. That is why we must protect Europe, protect its ideals, protect its values and protect a unique social model in the world. Moreover, Europe needs to assert itself in the field of technology, climate change, industry, the economy, and it needs to do so through greater integration, strengthening a solid economic space capable of competing with other global powers. All European countries together are a giant among giants. Separately, even the largest country, that is, Germany, counts very little in the world of the twenty-first century. Europe is, ladies and gentlemen, the space in which the nationalist rivalries that have dragged our continent into two devastating wars have been overcome and definitively overcome. Europe is peace, it is overcoming national selfishness, which we have drawn by sharing sovereignty; not by yielding sovereignty, but by sharing it. Europe must also be the area in which rivalries are overcome within countries, the horizon of our own internal tensions. What is the point, ladies and gentlemen, of encouraging disunity, disintegration, division within Spain when we need more European Union? What is the point of raising internal borders, when it is precisely what we have to do to break down many external borders? It's going against history. The overcoming of our territorial tensions will not only come from the invocation of the law, the Constitution and its application, without any doubt necessary; it will result from a collective project of national regeneration, progress and Europeanist inspiration. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the six major challenges facing Spain, in my opinion, and these are our answers. Faced with unemployment and precariousness, decent employment in a competitive economy, decent pensions and a sustainable public system. Faced with technological challenge, digital transformation. Faced with climate change, ecological transition. Faced with discrimination against women, feminism. Faced with inequality, social justice. And in the face of global challenges, a united and diverse Spain in a diverse and united Europe. And I have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that we can do this because we have to learn from our own history. Spain experienced the first three quarters of the 20th century a turbulent history and, unfortunately, a long dictatorship. We had difficulties in modernizing the country, we went through the hopes broken by the coup d'état to the Republic and we suffered forty years of Francoism. This history sometimes leads us to fail to appreciate in its fair extent what we have achieved over the past forty years: a country in which there is no justification for not appreciating what we have achieved; a country from which we must feel tremendously proud; a country that has always been able to turn threats into great collective successes. Many of our elders remember well the almost miserable lives of our grandparents and grandmothers, of Spain definitely in which they were born: hunger, widespread poverty, roads without asphalt or villages without electric light. In 1975 we left the dictatorship; today we are one of the twenty full democracies in the world, and forty years later the Government hopes to soon implement the Historical Memory Act and also the mandate of this House, because a democracy cannot have a mausoleum dedicated to the dictator. [[Applause from the Socialist Group]] In 1975 we had an ankylated economy and almost third-world infrastructure, and today we have doubled our per capita income, we are a modern economy and we have high-speed networks with more kilometers of the world. In 75 there were no civil liberties or rights. There was, ladies and gentlemen, a law of social danger that allowed homosexuals to be imprisoned for the simple fact that they were rehabilitated. Today we are quite the opposite, a country referring to sexual freedom and respect for the LGBTI community. In the 75th the women were subjected to men even legally; today every 8th of March Spain is news worldwide for its commitment in defense of feminism. In 75 Europe closed its doors to us and today we are at the heart of its decision. In 75 we were a completely centralist country, without autonomy, without respect for the Basque, Galician and Catalan languages, and today we are the second most decentralized country in the world. In 75, terrorism caused ravages and pain in the heart of Spanish society; today we are a proud democracy of its triumph over violence. Our transformation as a country has been, ladies and gentlemen, colossal. Ten million people have been added to our labour force, of which 7 million are women. We have been able to increase our gross domestic product by a volume equivalent to the economies of the Netherlands and Denmark together during that period. We have multiplied our exports by 47 and almost tripled the number of tourists who visit us annually. We have eight times as many university students, and our per capita education budget has increased by 1400 per cent. We have multiplied health spending by 13 times and built one of the most efficient health systems in the world. Spain is a great country, ladies and gentlemen, admired and admirable. In '75 we did it, and now we're gonna do it again. Forty years ago the first major transformation of our country began, a successful project in which governments of different signs collaborated. In this legislature I propose that we begin the second major transformation of our country, addressing the six major objectives set out above. This second great transformation which I present to you and propose to you, ladies and gentlemen, will be based on a commitment determined by education or if I may by knowledge, i.e. education, culture and science. These matters will permeate all the action of the Government and I therefore propose to you, ladies and gentlemen, an agreement to ensure that the educational investment is 5% of the gross domestic product, regardless of the economic situation and also of the political governments in the years to come, a first commitment to convey to society a clear idea, and that the Executive and the Legislature truly bet on the education of our children. [[applause from the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] Education opens the doors to what we are as people, it is not only a productive instrument, it is not only a tool of transformation, it is not only a vehicle of democratic awareness and respect. The other day I was thrilled to read a news that said that one of the students with the highest qualifications in selectivity, ladies and gentlemen, Carlos Rodríguez, declared in a media outlet that he wanted to start dramaturgy studies at the Royal School of Dramatic Art in Madrid. I could choose any of the most prestigious grades or with more job exits, any of the careers that today are not unemployed that we are seeing in many media such as mathematics, or any of the careers that guarantee a high income, but have chosen what ultimately moves your dreams. That is what education is for, to bring out from each one the best that can be given to society and that can be given to itself. Ladies and gentlemen, the six challenges we face must be tackled urgently. We cannot wait much longer if we do not want Spain to lose the train of progress, and we must also do so in a complex economic context, to which I would like to refer below. Our economy is true that it continues to grow robustly, but it is also true that it tends to slow down its growth rate. However, it is true that we are growing substantially more than the countries in our environment, and it is also true that over the past few weeks we have had very good news because growth forecasts for this year have been raised by various international agencies. A few months ago the consensus of the analysts estimated that our economy was going to grow by around 2.2% in 2019, last month the Bank of Spain increased this forecast to 2.4% and the European Commission has just placed it at 2.3%. Spain is therefore about to double the expected growth for the euro area this year. And, more importantly, it will do so in a much more balanced way, as a result of the virtuous behaviour of our external sector. Over the past 12 months, more than 510,000 jobs have been created and the number of registered unemployed has fallen by about 150 000; the number of social security members as I have indicated to you has exceeded 19.5 million for the first time in our country's history, and it is clear that this month of July the number of unemployed will fall below 3 million for the first time since 2008. As regards the public accounts, the deficit stood at the close of 2018 at 2.5% of gross domestic product, i.e. 6 tenths better than the previous year. This has enabled Spain - as you have known by the media - to leave the corrective arm of the excessive deficit procedure of the European Union, in which we were since 2009. For the first time since the start of the crisis, all public administrations have a primary surplus, and public debt has also fallen to 97.1% of GDP, slightly more than expected. But we do not settle, we want to go further, we aim to clean up public accounts, reduce the total government deficit to 2% of GDP this year and put public debt at 95.8% of GDP this year. Despite all this, ladies and gentlemen, we must flee from complacency and we must do so, first of all, because if we have learned something over the past decade, it is not enough to grow, but it must be done on the basis of solid growth, with increases in productivity and competitiveness. It is not enough to grow, it is necessary that the fruits of this growth can also be redistributed to the whole of society in order to reduce the tearing inequalities suffered by many of the Spanish population. It is not enough to create jobs, it is necessary for that job to be of quality and to be properly remunerated so that 14% of our workers, who are now poor workers, can reach the end of the month. It is not enough to reduce the public deficit, which is undoubtedly important, but it is also necessary to recover public investment and support social investment, after years of deterioration of our welfare state. Only then will growth and equality be compatible; only then will we make it possible to read the lesson of the last economic and financial crisis: that growth without social cohesion and social cohesion without growth are not possible. Secondly, we must flee from complacency over the uncertainties of the international context. That is why we must be cautious. The increase in protectionist tensions and doubts, which have not yet been cleared up, in relation to the departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union are realities that we must bear in mind at the time, first, of knowing and conceptualizing the economic context of our country, and second, of knowing what the government programme we can carry out. Finally, it would not be prudent to rely on all this at the right time in the economic cycle that we are undoubtedly having, despite the difficulties, because economic cycles are governed by their own laws and because our economy is facing structural reforms that cannot, must not be delayed; reforms as I have told you before in education and active employment policies; reforms that allow for territorial diversification of investment and our trade relations with the world; reforms in the labour market, in favour of entrepreneurship, innovation, the largest dimension of the business fabric, today very atomized in our country; reforms to ensure the competitiveness of our industrial, energy sector, which must be ever greener; reforms that ultimately support our welfare state and thereby modernise our fiscal system and our autonomous and local financing systems. Ladies and gentlemen, I now turn to the measures I propose to the House in each of these six legislative objectives. The first, as I explained to you, is the labour market and the public pension system. Every time there is - and you know it as much as I do - a technological revolution like the one we are experiencing right now, countries must face a double challenge: on the one hand, they must modernise their productive fabric and certainly also update their educational system, and on the other, we must update the work frameworks, social protection networks and redistribution mechanisms in order to guarantee social justice and protect those who are going to be most affected by this technological disruption. This revolution represents a great opportunity for Spain because it can solve structural problems in the field of the labour market, and I explain myself. In the last twelve months of government we have approved, thanks also to the contribution and support of other parliamentary forces, the increase of the interprofessional minimum wage to 900 euros, we have approved a master plan for a decent job, and we have regulated the registration of working hours to ensure respect for the time limits and the remuneration of overtime, but that is only the principle of the modernization of our labor system. It is necessary to implement a cross-cutting package in my opinion of ten measures, with a first point: a new Workers' Statute that shields rights and regulates new labour relations. It is clear that we need to fully update our Workers' Statute dating back to the 80th century, because digital platforms, robotics have completely disfigured the classic concepts of the entrepreneur, of the self-employed, even of the self-employed, as we are constantly seeing in the media and in the nearest day to day - I am convinced - with family and friends of all your lords. In the shortest possible time, ladies and gentlemen, I pledge to bring to the House a proposal based on social dialogue, a new Workers' Statute based on the paradigm of decent work of the United Nations and the International Labour Organization, which requires, inter alia, that indefinite recruitment be the usual, ordinary form of recruitment; a technically solvent statute and that it provide legal certainty to all parties; ultimately, a statute for the next generations. All this without prejudice to addressing, logically as a matter of urgency, measures within the framework of the social dialogue to repeal the most harmful aspects of the labour reform imposed in 2012. Secondly, we will promote the integration of young people into the labour market through aid, programmes, practices and also active employment policies, but above all we will adopt a statute of the fellow who will protect those who take their first steps in the world of work, encouraging their remuneration and avoiding the unlimited chaining of periods of practice. [[Applause from the Socialist Group]] Thirdly, we will approve a strategic return plan to recover the professional talent of those Spaniards who had to go abroad, especially young people, especially researchers and scientists. Fourthly, we will adopt a law on equality in our labour market, to which I shall refer later. Fifthly, we will transform active employment policies to ensure lifelong learning and to improve the opportunities of the long-term unemployed. We will also propose a reorganisation and simplification of unemployment benefits with the aim of raising the coverage rate and the intensity of the protection of those who need it. Sixthly, within one year we will adopt a new master plan for decent work, which is so successful. Seventhly, we will make progress in improving the conditions of self-employed workers, universalizing their labour rights and reducing administrative obstacles and burdens. In this legislature, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to amend - in this legislature, yes, the special regime so that they can contribute according to their real income. [[Applause from the Socialist Group]] We will continue to extend the social protection of this group as we have done over the past 12 months, thanks also to the contribution and support of other parliamentary groups with the intention of matching it with that of workers on behalf of others. Eighthly, we will strengthen support for social economy enterprises as a model of sustainable, inclusive and high-quality employment. In the ninth place, we are going to promote a great social and political pact for the rationalization of the timetables, so that the Spanish, and especially the Spanish, have the same chances of reconciling personal, family and work life. Finally, we will address, together with the social partners, an income pact to improve the wage levels of working men and women, whose spearhead will logically be the growth and raising of the inter-professional minimum wage, in line with the European Social Charter. Ladies and gentlemen, the challenge is to put our country at the forefront of technological transformation, without a doubt, but also to put our country at the forefront and the forefront of a new economic system, in which the whole of society and not just a few privileged ones benefit. But not only do we need work measures; to win the future of employment we must also win the challenge of knowledge and adapt the educational model to the new times. The future will no doubt win that society that has trained professionals, researchers and entrepreneurs capable of innovation. Before, ladies and gentlemen, we devoted the first two decades of our life to training and the rest to using that training in our professional life. Now we have the need to train ourselves continuously, permanently, to learn new skills, to be in permanent development, and we therefore have the obligation to offer citizens a model that responds to that reality. That is why I propose to you, ladies and gentlemen, to make Spain the first European country to recognize the right to education throughout life. [[Applause from the Socialist Group]] That will involve a very important and intense effort and change. We will have to create training systems that do not yet exist, ladies and gentlemen. We will have to develop a new educational ecosystem consisting of universities, public vocational training centres, but also private centres, and companies. This ecosystem will allow us to provide courses and itineraries sufficiently flexible and adapted to the work reality we are living, so that citizens have the opportunity to reboot professionally when they want to or when they need to. Look, a few days ago I was thrilled to read the story of one man - yes, another, another, ladies and gentlemen who started working when I was seven years old. [[rumors]] He started working with seven years in the countryside, and yet he walked 15 kilometers a day to go to night school and get his graduate, who finally approved. That same man, retired and caring for his granddaughter today, has approved compulsory secondary education. This is Spain, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause from the Socialist Group]] We need to remember these examples in order to inspire society to continue to learn always, and we need to guarantee opportunities to succeed. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that in the future citizens will have jobs closer and closer to their interests, their passions and their creative capacities. We have to fight and work for it. That is why it is essential that we know how to read what the times are telling us: new labour laws, new opportunities for growth in the knowledge and training of citizens in order to advance in stable employment and also in the good remuneration of that work. These factors - stability and quality employment - are fundamental, ladies and gentlemen, to consolidate one of the main pillars of the welfare state as is the Public Pension System. In this area, political agreement and social dialogue were about to be reached before the rush of the elections on 28 April. But that political and social agreement, within the Toledo Pact, is now more fundamental, more indispensable than ever. We have, in my view, a solid, very solid basis on which to strengthen our system, and I believe that there is also a clear political will in the House to prevent a decline in the purchasing power of pensioners. That is why it is necessary to consolidate the update in line with the actual CPI that was made last December, eliminating the existing revaluation index, narrowing the gender gap with special attention to minimum and non-contributory pensions and reformulating the sustainability factor in accordance with the social agreement reached in 2011. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to reconcile these objectives with the elimination - and this is the commitment I also make to you - of the deficit in the social security system over a five-year period, and for this we will also look at new funding formulas to ensure the sustainability of the public pension system. These measures will be complemented by a reordering of the bonuses, which is obvious and there is agreement already within the Toledo Pact Commission, aimed exclusively at the inclusion in the labour market of the most vulnerable groups. In short, ladies and gentlemen, what I propose to you in this first chapter is to move forward with social justice, with a new Workers' Statute, with measures of shock against unemployment, with a firm educational ambition, determined by the Executive and also by the Legislature, and to renew the Toledo Pact. I will then develop the measures to address the technological revolution. In four years the traffic of data, ladies and gentlemen, is going to multiply by five, the internet of things will make everything connected to each other and consequently emits information: the vehicles, the appliances, the sports shoes with which we run, the bulbs. Artificial intelligence, biotechnology, Big Data are ultimately processes that are going to transform and are already transforming the world, economies and power relations, as has always happened in technological revolutions. But there is a big difference with regard to these technological and current revolutions, and this is the first time that Spain is in a position to lead this digital revolution, because we have all the tools to do so, and we cannot therefore miss this opportunity. Spain, ladies and gentlemen - there are very few people who know this, but it must be stressed and said on a permanent and recurrent basis - is the European country with the highest fibre optic coverage up to home, with 77.4%. Only in our country is there more fibre than in the sum of the major European economies. Spain is in fact the fifth country in the European Union and the eighth in the world with a greater inclusive internet. We have in short the best keys of the future. Spain has just been - and I was recently with the scientists in Barcelona - chosen to install the supercomputer MareNostrum 5, which is a great technological infrastructure that also shows how, when we can cooperate with the City of Barcelona, the Generalitat of Catalonia, the Government of Spain and also the European institutions, we do great things for our country and also for Catalonia and the city of Barcelona. Progress like this cannot be an exception, it must be the norm, and only in the framework of investment stability can we exploit our country's full potential and respond to the great demands, the great challenges of the sector. The government, as you know, in these twelve months of the last legislature, approved the Spanish R+D+i Strategy, which serves as the basis for the National Artificial Intelligence Strategy, which we will present before the end of the year. It will address the ethical impact, the labour impact, and the economic and social impact of such technologies. And we are going to invest - I am telling you - decisively; we are going to turn Spain into a reference country, because we cannot afford to be the only country in all European countries, especially in the major economies, that shrinks into investment in R & D+i. It is necessary to move forward, to reach that 2% of the gross domestic product represented by the European average. To this end, ladies and gentlemen, I propose something very simple to you, something that when we spoke to the scientific groups, each and every one of the parliamentary groups that we are here, we made explicit, and that is that this legislature is the legislature of the pact for science. One of the objectives will be the gradual increase in investment in R & D+i, until we are as I have told you before in the European average. I announce that we will strongly support, with determination, the transformation of our business fabric through the creation of a public entity for financing innovation, entrepreneurship, digital transformation and green transition, that is, we will create a public entity, I repeat, for financing innovation, entrepreneurship, digital transition and green transition, which integrates existing public credit institutions and programmes into one group. [[Applause in the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] And thanks to the Entrepreneur Nation Strategy, which we launched 12 months ago, we will adopt a law of startups that will recognize the specific nature of these new companies as well as their demands and tax incentives for financing, as well as their development. Look, the city of Madrid, the city of Barcelona are on the list of the ten European cities where they were born most startups in 2018. Therefore, we are not talking about achieving, but about consolidating what has been achieved and extending it to more territories. When we refer to the digital economy logically we are also talking about SMEs. SMEs have a unique opportunity in innovation and digitalisation that they are already taking advantage of. I'm going to give you some data so we can see the magnitude of what's happening in our primordial fabric, which is that of SMEs. 18% of SMEs already sell via the Internet, and 7% make cross-border sales, logically expanding their markets. Our small and medium-sized enterprises have obtained more than EUR 3300 million from the European Union for investment in R & D+i, and we are the country that leads the most collaborative projects in this area throughout the European Union. That is why at the beginning of next year we will adopt the 2030 strategic framework for SMEs and put it into effect immediately. We must, moreover, increase the weight of industry in our productive sector to 20% of GDP, which is what the European Union recommends to us, and that is why we are going to promote a state pact for industry, which will be an agreement - we hope - to define a comprehensive policy, sustained over time to help improve our productivity and the competitiveness of our economy, making this sector an engine of growth and stable and quality employment. [[Applause from the Socialist Group]] Digital transformation will also be a key instrument within our strategic plan to support cultural industries, creative industries, with particular attention to the audiovisual sector and video games. We will strengthen the digitization of content in all areas as a way to preserve our country's cultural heritage. But, ladies and gentlemen, culture is much more than the industrial sector. In this sense we will complete in this legislature the development of the Statute of the Artist, which has also been the subject of consensus by the various parliamentary groups during the last legislature, we will create the copyright office and we will adopt - hopefully in this legislature yes - a law of patronage that needs the third sector, and in particular the cultural sector. [[Applause from the Socialist Group]] Digitization must also reach the public sector to facilitate and lighten procedures, reduce bureaucratic burdens and increase resource efficiency. We are going to give an important boost - in this I have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that we are going to commit ourselves, and I personally - to the digital administration, and we are going to implement tools such as the citizen folder platform 2020, which will be a unique space, with the information and procedures of multiple citizens' relations with the administration, and we are going to incorporate artificial intelligence tools in areas such as health to improve diagnostics and optimize resources. Digitization offers countless possibilities to facilitate the lives of citizens, but this must also facilitate their connectivity and guarantee digital rights, protecting them from possible attacks and violations of their security. In this regard, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to develop the digital citizenship strategy, we are going to launch a social Internet access bonus for vulnerable groups and we are also going to develop training services for those at risk of digital exclusion. At the same time, we will push forward a digital rights charter and create a digital certificate to measure the level of respect for those rights by the private sector, and we will also regulate the requirements of the right to the digital will and prepare a national strategy to combat misinformation. In order to be able to use digital products with total security, ladies and gentlemen, we will approve the cybersecurity plan and the creation of the national cybersecurity forum, and, in addition, we will strengthen the cyber coordination office between the National Police and the Civil Guard and we will launch the cybersecurity operations centre. Ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to bet decisively on science and knowledge for the formation of human capital that all these challenges require, demand. That is why the new education law will have to address this problem. We will invest more resources in a digital transformation plan for education and, in particular, vocational training, and we will rely on educational innovation and the digital competence of teachers, students and the centres themselves. Within a single year, ladies and gentlemen, I commit myself to incorporating a module on digitisation into each qualification in all vocational training studies. We are going to bet on vocational training in this legislature. We will design eighty new offers associated, among others, with intelligent manufacturing, artificial intelligence, big data, virtual and augmented reality, collaborative robotics, autonomous vehicles, drones, 5G networks and video game design; eighty new titles attractive to our young people and adapted to the labor market of the present. [[applause from the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] It is also necessary to promote scientific and technological vocations, in the so-called STEM: science, technology, engineering and mathematics. Look - I will give you a data -, the number of students who opt for this training is decreasing every year and, in particular, it is decreasing among women, and the reality is that the demand for highly qualified professionals is increasing. It is estimated that in the European Union by 2020 there will be 756,000 vacancies in the information and communication technology sector. We are, therefore, divorcing the university of the world, and that is unacceptable. Therefore, I announce that we will propose a new organic law of the university system agreed between the educational community itself, the social actors, the autonomous governments and also the parliamentary forces. This is, in short, the horizon of government that I put to you in this matter, ladies and gentlemen: the commitment to science, innovation, the strategy of leadership in the industrial revolution 4.0 and an educational reform that adapts the knowledge that is imparted to the real world in which we live. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said to you, the third of the government's six objectives of action is the green transition. Climate emergency is not just a country challenge, it is a global challenge, a challenge that finds expression in the Paris Agreements, in the United Nations 2030 Agenda and in the European Union's Energy and Climate Framework. It is our duty to ensure that a sustainable economic model offers both opportunities in sectors linked to the energy transition and also to protect those affected by those changes. Let me also point out the intergenerational dimension of the debate that we have on the table, because it is young people who are at the forefront of a cause that is not only just but also urgent. In the past twelve months, ladies and gentlemen, we have laid the foundations for the transformation of our energy model with the Strategic Energy and Climate Framework, which has included the adoption of the draft integrated national energy and climate plan and the just transition strategy. Of all the European Commission's action plans, ladies and gentlemen, Spain's was recognised as the most complete and rigorous. We have set the course for the past 12 months; it is now a matter of moving forward with the adoption, as soon as possible, of a law on climate change and energy transition. To this end, I propose to act, ladies and gentlemen, in four areas: firstly, at the international level, with Spain at the forefront in the multilateral response to this challenge; secondly, at the state level, promoting the adaptation of our legislation, as we have done over the past twelve months; thirdly, at the corporate level, fostering a large public-private partnership with our companies, and, fourthly, at the citizen level, promoting a collective awareness, following the wake of what the young people of our country demand and demand. It is said, ladies and gentlemen, that it is easier to change laws than to change consciences. Having a growing complicity on the part of society is our best guarantee, our best hope for winning this challenge. It is essential to link sustainable growth and a just ecological transition, and I therefore propose to you to make decisive progress in this area, first of all by moral conviction, but also because there are enormous opportunities in the green economy to create employment and also to reduce our country's energy dependence. The fight against climate change or, better said already - let us be clear - the adaptation and mitigation of climate change has one of its main scenarios in the mobility of cities and urban planning. That is why we are going to move forward in the threefold direction that I propose to you, and I hope that we will be able to count on the broad consensus of the House: firstly, with a strategy and a law of sustainable mobility, to recognize and guarantee the right to effective, intermodal, connected mobility, by moving forward with the industrial sector, and we will do so through the strategic plan of comprehensive support for the automotive sector that is to be implemented over the next six years, from 2019 to 2025; secondly, through energy rehabilitation, with the commitment to act at 100,000 homes per year in our country, and thirdly, through the unbridled fight against urban pollution. We will regulate the obligation for cities with more than 50 000 inhabitants to have low-emission zones, with restrictions on the most polluting vehicles. [[Applause from the Socialist Group]] I want to be very clear in this area, ladies and gentlemen, and I want to say this to all public administrations, in particular to local administrations: maximum requirement with all administrations. Nobody's going to stop Central Madrid. [[Applause from the Socialist Group]] There can't be steps back. It is an absolute irresponsibility to expose Spain to the risk of sanctions by the European institutions and, even more so, an even greater irresponsibility to renounce the right of citizens to breathe clean air. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, the OECD has just made this very clear, quite clearly: our country has an outstanding subject in environmental taxation. We cannot continue to be at the back of the European Union. It is not about collecting more, but about discouraging a productive model with enormous social, health and environmental costs. In addition, the Government will be committed to issuing green bonds linking public debt to financing low-carbon projects. The transformation of our energy model must be fair to the territories and sectors affected by this paradigm shift and it must also be solidarity and inclusive, and in this we have made much progress in recent years, ladies and gentlemen, for example, with the national strategy against energy poverty, which involved the improvement and unification of electrical and thermal social bonds and, in addition, the elimination of the so-called sun tax; measures that have a clear, firm horizon, and that is to lower the price of light to households. But this transformation must also bring added value to our economy, and in this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the status of the electric intensive consumer is part of that philosophy, part of the philosophy of enhancing the competitiveness of the industry, mitigating the costs of electricity for those companies in which this concept has a relevant, specific weight and which we cannot ignore. This measure illustrates, in my view, the way forward, which is cost compensation, the exemption from payments in exchange for being more efficient and, logically, maintaining and creating jobs. In the same vein, ladies and gentlemen, we are committed in this legislature to adopting a State strategy for a circular economy, which will include a single-use plastic law to reduce waste generation and promote sustainable consumption. [[Applause from the Socialist Group]] Sustainability must permeate all sectors of industrial development, and that is why we are going to adopt a 2030 plan for green transition and decarbonisation, maximizing the opportunities of industries and improving their competitiveness. The tourism sector is also key to our economy, as you well know, and we will push forward a 2030 sustainable tourism strategy in this area. On many occasions, ladies and gentlemen, there is something that goes unnoticed in the public conversation, but Spain is the country of the world with the most reserves of the biosphere, and in order to live up to that heritage we will put in place two measures: the first, a state strategy of conservation of biodiversity, and another, of green infrastructure, connectivity and ecological restoration. It is up to us, ladies and gentlemen, not only to preserve our environmental wealth, but to make it a lever of development for inner Spain, for the evil so-called empty Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, we are facing the threat posed by the scarcity of strategic resources. We are seeing it in the form of drought clearly this year, and it is therefore necessary to act in areas such as water management. That is why I propose to you to approve a new framework based on the recognition of the right to access to water, to sustainability and to self-sufficiency in our basins. Spain wants, can and should be a global reference in this struggle for the just ecological transition. We want to be recognized for being a country that not only fulfils its commitments, not only because it is aware of the consequences that this entails - I mean inaction - but because we turn these challenges into a lever of change to move forward, to move forward in reducing our energy dependence by 15 points in a decade, to move forward in the development of clean energies and to improve our competitiveness, to move forward, in short, so that Spain is at the forefront of the new environmental illustration that will mark this era of transformation. Ladies and gentlemen, the name of the fourth axis of my programme is the commitment, as I said at the beginning of my speech, to the feminist cause and the defence of equality. I have said the figure before, but it seems to me that it is important to put it back on the table so that we are aware of the enormous challenge we face as a society: a thousand women have been killed by sexist violence since January 2003; of the last two, one yesterday in Vilalba and one today, presumably, in Calpe. A hug for your loved ones and, no doubt, solidarity for those who are suffering gender-based violence. [[Applause from the Socialist Group]] It is not a question of improving those figures, but of ensuring that there is no more woman killed for that cause. There is more violence against women, no doubt. One in three victims of sexual offences does not receive the compensation they are entitled to, and, of those who do receive it, the amount is laughable, just over 160 euros. That is why we have already taken the most urgent measures, and the commitment of the Government of Spain is to implement the State Pact against Gender Violence. We will also take something that I believe is important, and it is the initiative to move forward in this direction throughout the European Union, where there is no common definition for femicide or uniform legislation on gender-based violence. Women not only suffer violence and aggression, they continue to suffer a departure inequality, and an eloquent example of this is the wage gap, which, logically, has an impact on the amount of pensions they receive when they reach retirement age. It is true that in the past legislature we have already started a path to eliminate wage gaps and to equalize paternity and maternity leave, and we are going to push, as I said in the chapter on employment, the law on equal treatment and opportunities in employment and occupation, which is progressing precisely in reconciling work and family life, and we are also going to ratify ILO Convention 189, with the aim of consolidating the equal labour and social security rights of persons working as domestic workers, who are mostly women. [[Applause from the Socialist Group]] It is undeniable that glass ceilings still exist that prevent the professional development of many women in many professional areas; fortunately, not all of them. 54% of women are in managerial positions and in the leadership of labour cooperatives. If they can do it in cooperatives, why won't they be able to do it in the whole and in the rest of the companies? Today, moreover - and this is a fact I think very illustrative of the hard reality that many women live in our country - 83% of single-parent households are made up of women with children, and almost half, 42.9% of these households, are at risk of poverty. Problems like these and many others will have to be answered in what I announce to you will be a law of families, plural, not singular, a law that will respond to the new realities, such as the numerous families of our time, single-parent families, multiple births and foster families. [[Applause from the Socialist Group]] Discrimination against women is not the result of chance, it is the product of a patriarchal society that has tolerated as normal situations that discriminate against women at home, at work, in public space and also in interpersonal relations. In the sexual sphere, ladies and gentlemen, this mentality confers on the man the right to dispose of the body of the woman and to ignore her desire, and for my Government there cannot be a sexual relationship without the express consent of the woman. [[Applause from the Socialist Group]] Silence does not amount to an assertion, and therefore I announce that we will change the definition of sexual offences, because a rape is a rape. We don't want herds or lone wolves on the streets of our country. [[Applause from the Socialist Group]] There are other forms of discrimination against diversity, and diversity on all fronts, ladies and gentlemen, is the flag that best represents our country, that of the joy of living in a country that has embraced difference as a symbol of human wealth, and, if we are committed to diversity, we are committed to discrimination. Our legal system today is true, it is true with the greatest set of measures for the protection and recognition of the rights of all persons, regardless of the circumstances relating to disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, ethnicity, freedom of worship, etc., etc., but the reality is much more uncomfortable than the laws. The shadow of hatred, unfortunately, has returned and many collectives still face stigmas and difficulties of varying degrees in their day-to-day lives. The hate crimes recorded by the State Security Forces and Corpses have increased in recent years and history has reminded us that progress is not necessarily irreversible. Two weeks ago, without going any further, on the days when the LGTBI collective celebrated its pride in the streets of the towns and cities of Spain, we saw several homophobic attacks. That is why we will develop and implement the Action Plan against Hate Crimes and, once and for all, we will deal with the comprehensive law on equal treatment and non-discrimination and the amendment of the Gender Identity Act. [[Applause from the Socialist Group]] We are also going to propose that our Constitution be adapted to the requirements of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, that is, we are going to propose, as we did before the end of the last parliamentary term, the amendment of article 49 of our Constitution so that the term will disappear, and I hope to find the unanimous agreement of this House for that purpose. Ladies and gentlemen, a society where inequality grows will never be a fully free society. Our entire public system is sustained in these two thick pillars, freedom and equality, and when one of them fails, the entire building collapses. That is the fifth axis of action to which I shall refer below, that of social justice, not as an election, but as a necessity for the progress of our societies, for the progress of all and of all. Therefore, it is necessary to establish mechanisms that seek the predisposition of wealth, in addition to redistribution, that is, mechanisms that allow the distribution of that wealth more precisely from the very moment it is produced. Hence, the rise in the inter-professional minimum wage to 60% of the average wage, as laid down in the European Social Charter, at the end of the parliamentary term, is fundamental. Strengthening stable integration incomes that contain severe poverty is also another step in that direction. And it is also necessary - I propose that we do so - to put the debate on the table with rigour, with seriousness, on the proposal for a minimum living income linked to the fight against child poverty. That is why we have devoted EUR 210 million to this cause of child poverty, and this summer we have dedicated EUR 15 million to the VECA programme, as we did last year, aimed at financing holiday leisure and school dining in the summer period, and that is why we will also promote a great national pact against child poverty. [[Applause from the Socialist Group]] And here we return, ladies and gentlemen, to education, which is, in the end, the basis for equal opportunities. Therefore, we will strengthen public education as a guarantee of social cohesion, a public education with resources and a vocation of excellence, with free school material for those who need it, with sufficient resources to prevent that scourge that unfortunately suffers our educational system, which is early school leaving. We will universalize schooling from zero to eighteen years, not through compulsory education, but by promoting a sufficient supply of public places, above all in children's education. The municipalities, ladies and gentlemen, will be able to allocate their surplus to this end, with an impact of 300 million euros, and 30 million euros will be budgeted for those municipalities which have no surplus but which plan this type of infrastructure in their municipalities. [[Applause from the Socialist Group]] We're going to bet on free tuition from kindergarten to the first college enrollment. We will review in depth the scholarship system, firstly by increasing its endowment, secondly by simplifying and expediting the grants, which must also reach graduate students, and, lastly, by prioritizing the economic situation of families, because academic performance depends not only on the merit, no doubt important, but also on the conditions of departure of each person in life. We will urgently address the modernisation of the basic school curriculum so as to ensure the comprehensive training of pupils and the development of key competences. I would like to tell you that we are going to set up a curriculum development and educational innovation institute in coordination with the autonomous governments and also with the educational community. We are ambitious, ladies and gentlemen, we are ambitious in everything that belongs to the children and young people of our country, because nowhere better can we deposit our legacy. We want Spain to become the best country in the world to be a child, from the right to education to the right to play, as recognized in the Salzburg Declaration. That will guarantee us not only the future, but also a strong society in our country. For this reason, one of the first laws - unfortunately, it was left pending in the heavy legislature, in our last leg of the legislature - that we will deal with in the Council of Ministers and also in the Congress of Deputies I am convinced that it will count on the applause and support of each and every one of your ladies and gentlemen, and it is the organic law for the integral protection of children and adolescents from violence. [[Applause from the People's Parliamentary Group]] Ladies and gentlemen, our commitment to young people is also irrevocable. We will develop a national plan to promote youth emancipation, and we will also talk about housing, because, indeed, access to housing is one of the main problems; right now it is conceived, especially by the young people of our country, as a privilege, not as a constitutional right. We are aware that this is one of the major problems in Spain and that is why we need to move forward. What I announce to you and what I propose to the House, ladies and gentlemen, if I have your confidence, is to promote a state housing law, with the aim of collecting its social function, avoiding situations of helplessness and residential exclusion and regulating public service. In addition, measures will be taken to further curb abusive rent increases and the State Housing Plan will be revised with the aim of promoting affordable leases. We want a Spain in which the Unity Act, moreover, will work again. We did so in our budget agreement, and unfortunately it was wrecked as a result of the House's majority rejection. We will consolidate it through a new state framework law on social services. We will also incorporate the advanced teleassistance and the figure of the personal assistant into the system's benefits catalogue so that our elders can continue to live in their homes if they wish, and, in addition, we will recover the funding, the state contribution to dependency, which, unfortunately, has been cut in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, our public health system is the third most efficient in the world, a system whose universality, fortunately, we recovered nothing more from reaching the government and which was also anticipated by other progressive governments in different autonomous communities. In short, we have a large health system, of which their best assets are their professionals, but obviously much remains to be done. We are going to work on expanding the portfolio of basic health services, and one of them has to be oral health, and we will progressively eliminate the pharmaceutical co-op to the most vulnerable groups. As I have just explained, we are going to work for a Spain in which equality is the basis of our coexistence, but that is also necessary from the territorial point of view: not only to guarantee social cohesion, but also territorial cohesion, to ensure that those and other rights are equal for all citizens, live where they live. In these four decades Spain has completed the most advanced decentralization process in history, and has done so since the agreement, never since the imposition, from deep respect for our rich diversity. The autonomous state has undoubtedly served to co-ordinate Spain. We have reduced inequalities between territories through decentralization. Spain's autonomy, ladies and gentlemen, was and is a great idea. Despite this, there are imbalances that we must face courageously to ensure the equality of all Spaniards. One such imbalance is that of infrastructure, which has served so much for the cohesion of our country. Connecting territories is connecting opportunities; connecting territories is undoubtedly connecting citizens. If not, ask the neighbors of Granada. Ladies and gentlemen, I pledge to promote a state pact on infrastructure and transport that will ensure compliance with the current high-speed railway plans, that will study long-term connections, such as the Cantabria or Extremadura connections, and that will determine the investment in the necessary neighbourhoods and actions in the corridors of the Mediterranean and also of the Atlantic. We have before us a fundamental challenge in the autonomic sphere, ladies and gentlemen, and it is to address the reform of our system of autonomous and local financing, concrete needs, resources to strengthen the system, sufficiency, interterritorial solidarity and our welfare state, which largely manages the autonomous communities. We have already taken the first steps in regaining constant dialogue with the autonomous communities during the last twelve months of the legislature, and that same dialogue is essential to address this and other challenges, such as depopulation or demographics. In many villages, ladies and gentlemen, people have had to leave because they didn't have a doctor, a school nearby, not because they wanted to leave. In many villages there is no longer a pharmacy, there is no longer a banking agency, nor is there a presence of the Civil Guard, and in the latter area we will move forward on two fronts: first, in order to recover the number of troops of the State Security Forces and Corpses lost during the seven years of the previous administration. The public employment offer for 2019 is the largest in recent years. It comprises more than 2500 new National Police posts and more than 2,200 new Civil Guard posts. Secondly, we are going to push forward the Civil Guard infrastructure plan with a budget of 600 million euros for the next seven years, and this area of trend will be maintained until we can guarantee something that is fundamental to us and that is the public service of the security of our peoples. Based on the guidelines already adopted in the last legislature, we will finalize the national strategy for the demographic challenge. What will we do to revitalize inner Spain? Firstly, ensuring access to public services, physical and digital territorial connectivity. Secondly, we will promote and promote job creation, promote entrepreneurship, self-employment, and also reduce administrative and fiscal burdens. Thirdly, we will give new impetus to the agri-food sector by promoting sustainable inland tourism and by promoting clean energy and associated industrial fabric. We want a Spain in which everyone chooses where they want to live and can do so on an equal footing; a government's firm command, ladies and gentlemen, which I intend to form if the House gives me its confidence. Ladies and gentlemen, the sixth axis is that of a Spain which has to be turned into the cause of a united Europe. The Union is more than an area of values and principles that define us; it is also our best defence to meet the challenges that cannot be overcome if we act separately. The five challenges I have referred to before - technological disruption, climate change, employment and the sustainability of our welfare state, to name a few - can only be met with guarantees of success from a stronger Union. In a few areas, this need is as pressing as in migration policy. Does Europe need regular and orderly migration? Yes, of course, but at the same time it must combat irregular immigration, because that will mean combating the plots and mafias that trade with human beings, and we must do so from two fundamental principles: responsibility and solidarity. Spain has shown this year that a responsible migration policy can be combined with a united response and in line with the European values enshrined in our founding treaties. In this regard, I would like to make an express mention and transfer the recognition of the parliamentary group I represent - I am convinced that all of you too - to the extraordinary work of the Maritime Rescue workers on our shores, who have rescued 50,000 human beings from a tragic fate in 2018. [[Applause from the Socialist Group]] Our migration policy is also a policy that has proved to be effective. As far as the year goes, the number of irregular entries has fallen by 27% over the same period of 2018, but we have to do much more and especially we have to do it in two areas. The first is that we must promote a reform of the common European asylum system, and the second is that a key commitment must be made in cooperation with key players for us because of our geographical reality, such as the countries of origin and transit, in particular with Morocco. The phenomenon of migration has a high degree of divisive potential not only among European partners, as we have seen in recent years, but also in our societies; that is why we must combat the instrumentalization of this phenomenon with determination and strengthen development cooperation as a fundamental vector. Ladies and gentlemen, Europe is a project that unites us as a country and also as a society in its three aspects. Firstly, the citizens' Europe, by extending rights, freedoms, by strengthening what is to be called the European Demo and, why not, by dreaming - at least I dream of it - that in the future we can have a European constitution. Secondly, in addition to the citizens' Europe, the Europe of the nation states, making progress in cooperation between countries in the fields of industry, energy, the digital challenge, cybersecurity, migration, foreign policy, common defence, compliance with the Paris Agreements and the demand for our continent to be a CO2 neutral continent by 2050. And, thirdly, alongside the Europe of the citizens and the Europe of the nation states, the Europe of the regions. The urban century we are in implies that the territorial and local perspective must be vital if we are to respond effectively to many of the challenges ahead and also to legitimise the European ideal even more. These are three approaches that identify a longing: an autonomous Spain in a federal Europe, a new space of sovereignty that does not diminish the feeling of belonging. Nobody is less Spanish, they are less Catalan, they are less Basque, they are less Madrid, they are less Andalusian because they are European; the opposite is true: we reinforce our identities by being European. Let us learn, ladies and gentlemen, from the lessons that offer recent experiences such as Brexit, a process contrary to the logic of the times, to the sense of history, built on a fallacy, on lies, which has weakened such an important democracy - which we all look at - as is British democracy, and has undermined even the most essential and primary consensus in British society. Today, for the first time, there is an almost exact coincidence between the political cycle in Spain and that which opens up throughout the European Union. In turn, we have a road map that is marked by multilateral policy, by the United Nations, which is the 2030 Agenda. We therefore have a unique opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to align our policies from that triple aspect, from that triple approach: Spain, Europe and the United Nations through the 2030 Agenda. I ask you: What is more useful, to exercise small and useless sovereignty from isolation, or to be part of a common space, sharing sovereignty, to face challenges that overwhelm us as a country? In this debate, in my view, ladies and gentlemen, the answer is clear: to share, not to divide; to integrate, not to isolate. Spain came later than it deserved Europe, but it came to stay and commit itself definitively to the European ideal. Today we take on a renewed role, of which the best example is the candidacy of Josep Borrell, a Spanish Catalan, a Catalan Spanish, to be at the head of European diplomacy. [[Applause from the Socialist Group]] Europe is the largest area of solidarity, social justice and democracy on the planet. We are the first global donor of development cooperation, especially in Africa. Europe as an ideal lives far beyond its borders in its commitment, for example, to the Sahel, to Palestine or to Latin America. We are living a moment that is far-reaching for the future of the Union, ladies and gentlemen, a moment when the important thing is not to think about what Spain can achieve, but what Spain can contribute to the Union. We are a unique interlocutor, suitable in his capacity for dialogue. Our bond with Latin America, the Mediterranean roots and our unquestionable presence in Africa are the best example. From the government, ladies and gentlemen, I offer the firm and determined commitment of this government to move forward in social Europe. We will push - I will defend within the European Council and also in the European Parliament - the social dimension of the European Union through European unemployment insurance, the common minimum wage and a binding strategy against gender-based violence. [[Applauds]] Similarly, it is essential to have a genuine European budget, a budget that consolidates strategic lines for our country, such as the common agricultural policy, which is essential for the rural environment, for our farmers and also for our farmers. We will work with a CAP aimed at maintaining profitability, promoting a living rural environment, attractive to young people, recognizing the fundamental role women play in rural areas, quality, sustainability and innovation in processes. We will therefore adopt a national strategic plan with joint funding between the European Union, the State and the Autonomous Communities, which exceeds EUR 50 billion in its period of validity. Ladies and gentlemen, it is essential to complete the institutional architecture of the euro. Spain has a great opportunity that cannot be missed in time of withdrawal from other actors. That is why I am committed to leading what I believe is the feeling of the majority of Spanish citizens, who are a European executive, and I demand the support of the House in what I believe to be a genuine state policy. Let us protect Europe, as a necessary ideal, and at the same time strengthen a Union that protects its citizens, its states and its territories. Realizing the second transformation of Spain that we propose will also require a stake held by more Spain in Europe, but also by a renewed external presence in a changing context and subject to extraordinary uncertainties, and this is a matter of state. We are an average power in geostrategic relevance, this is obvious, but we also have a global vocation. Our vision of the world must be based on effective multilateralism to address global threats that cannot be addressed from isolation, but from open and cohesive societies like ours. In exercise of this vocation, today more than 2500 men and women of our Armed Forces participate in fifteen international missions. In 2018, the year we just left, twenty-five years after the first casualties suffered by our Armed Forces on international peace missions were accomplished when Lieutenant Muñoz Castellanos was fatally injured when he brought medicine to the city of Móstar, Bosnia. His memory evokes that of all the men and women who sacrificed their lives carrying out a mission that prides us not only as Spaniards, but as a society committed to democratic values, to human rights, within and beyond our borders. Spain in its external action, ladies and gentlemen, must open up with the same determination as companies, entrepreneurs, aware of their real weight, but also of the strength we have. The American continent will always be a nuclear sphere of Spain's external action. I intend to make progress in strengthening a relationship full of symbols, cultural and economic ties based on four vectors: firstly, the multilateral space as a dynamic of coordination in matters such as the extension of language or culture; secondly, to increase resources in cooperation for Ibero-America, for the development of such cooperation logically and to align them with the objectives of the 2030 Agenda; to increase trade exchanges in order to favour our companies and strengthen the human dimension with actions in social and migratory matters. Our involvement in negotiating the historic European Union agreement with Mercosur in the framework of the G20 meeting is the best example of the role we can play as a country. Spain, moreover, ladies and gentlemen, must continue to be a relevant actor in strengthening democratic institutions in Latin America and, therefore, in relation to a brother country that is logically also the subject of controversy in domestic policy, in relation to Venezuela, we must maintain our commitments to the International Contact Group on the basis of a peaceful solution to the crisis, negotiated between Venezuelans and the holding of elections that have the right guarantees and the supervision of the international community. Likewise, it is essential to strengthen our commitment to overcome the humanitarian crisis and protect the Spanish community in that country, whose suffering we logically feel as our own. In an increasingly Eurocentric world, Asia is one of the most relevant centres of power and, in this regard, ladies and gentlemen, I warn you that Europe's relationship with China is undoubtedly one of the most important strategic dilemmas of our time and Spain must be resolutely involved in this reflection. - We have to do it as Spain and also as Europe. This vision must be accompanied by the strengthening of the closest bilateral ties with other countries in an area that is of course key to the economy and global trade, and globalization is entering a new stage from a key concept, which is the connectivity infrastructure between Asia and Europe. Should we be present in this real paradigm shift? Yes, but we also have to do so from the defense of multilateralism and an international rule-based trading system. The African continent is another priority framework for action for Spain both by geographical proximity and by moral conviction. We are committed to a space called to experience a great transformation in the coming decades and that will double its population by 2050. The Africa III Plan, recently adopted by the Council of Ministers, also with the collaboration of the previous Congress of Deputies, will be one of the most relevant axes of action in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, defending peace and security also means having the right resources, and that is why we will continue to increase the defence budget progressively in line with our commitments to our partners and the strengthening of our capacities. [[The minister of defence in office, Robles Fernández, makes gestures of assent]] We have been and will continue to be one of the main drivers of Europe's defence. Spain defends this vision in a much broader framework, which is that of NATO, and must materialise it by participating in as many initiatives as possible to contribute to greater European integration in this territory. A genuine culture of national security must be fostered and society must therefore be involved in defence as a collective task and as an element of civic cohesion. We will move forward in the comprehensive model of crisis management, with a commitment to improving communications infrastructures, cybersecurity - as I have already mentioned - an area in which the strength of our democratic system is also at stake. We will be present as a country in the debate on the protection of global common spaces, the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction or cyberspace. Likewise, we will strengthen our commitment to the fight against terrorism and also against violent radicalization; a challenge that requires the right tools to ensure our security and to bet on policies of prevention and social cohesion to reduce this real risk to our coexistence. In short, ladies and gentlemen, a Spain that is open to the world, a Spain that is cohesive in strengthening a Europe that is more necessary than ever. I have mentioned, ladies and gentlemen, the six major axes that focus on the programme bet for which I call for majority confidence. It is a program to remodernize and transform Spain, to open it to the world and face these six major challenges as they are: real opportunities for our country. To achieve these goals, we also need to strengthen our institutional architecture. Society demands that we make progress in terms of rights, freedoms, transparency, accountability and also democratic regeneration. Ours is an already mature democratic society, a society that reveals itself when authority is exercised unjustly and arbitrarily. That civil conscience is the strength of our country, and that conscience is, of course, a more than justifiable reason for repealing the law, a commitment I want to make expressly to the House. [[Applause in the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] For each generation to embrace the legal system in which it lives, it is necessary to make progress in the effective recognition of new rights and to maintain the guarantee of existing rights. Ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago we all remember how deeply moved we are with the story of Ángel Hernández and his wife, María José Carrasco, who is sick with multiple sclerosis. It was a real bulwark at the collective conscience of a society which, ladies and gentlemen, has repeatedly shown its willingness to regulate the right to euthanasia and the right to a dignified death. Let us now push that regulation, defending the right to choose freely until the last minute and to receive the best medical care in that hard trance. In the same vein, a digital rights charter must be promoted. There are those who refer to data such as the oil of the twenty-first century; well, let us avoid by all means that the indiscriminate exploitation of them constitutes a danger to our dignity and creates new privileges. Recognition, therefore, of new rights, but also improvement of the conditions under which others who need special protection are exercised. A law on freedom of conscience was needed to provide society with more resources in the fight against intolerance in all its aspects. With the same philosophy we have to suppress the requested vote. We are facing a genuine democratic tragedy. It is intolerable that only six out of every 100 Spaniards living abroad exercised the right to vote on 28 April. A Spanish citizen is a Spanish citizen regardless of where he resides. [[Applause from the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] Similarly, I intend to promote a state-wide animal welfare law. Citizenship demands firmness against cruelty to animals and their suffering. The society also demands that we courageously regulate the game, which has spread uncontrollably through the streets of our country and, in particular, in the districts with the lowest income. [[Applause from the Socialist Group]] We must act rigorously to prevent the emergence of ludopathy and to encourage, in short, ladies and gentlemen, a healthy alternative leisure. Ladies and gentlemen, democratic regeneration is about relegitimizing our institutions after years of political blockade; it's more democracy, it's about addressing unalterable reforms in our institutional system. To this end, it is essential to act in the field of justice. We need effective, accessible, modern and reliable justice that guarantees the principle of effective judicial protection and strengthens citizens' confidence in their institutions. In this regard, I would like to transfer the offer of a state pact for justice reform, a proposal with two anchors: modernisation and adequate funding. In the normative sphere, it is essential to address the drafting of a new Criminal Procedure Act, in addition to reversing harmful reforms such as the expiry period imposed by the investigation of complex cases. In addition, I consider it essential to reverse the regulatory change of 2014 with the aim of recovering the Spanish system of universal jurisdiction. Similarly, progress needs to be made in a new system of access to the judiciary, and it is essential to make progress in mechanisms that guarantee equal opportunities. Ladies and gentlemen, just one thing: in 2014 for 60% of Spaniards, corruption was one of the three main problems facing our country. Today, five years later, that figure has been reduced to 26%, but we cannot lower our guard. Therefore, I announce that we will promote a comprehensive law on the protection of witnesses and whistleblowers of corruption cases with the maximum guarantees that anyone who denounces corrupt practices can feel protected, and also the maximum social reproach for conduct that corrodes the foundations of our democracy. [[Applause in the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] To regenerate democracy is also to end the existence of obsolete figures, such as the outbursts and, therefore, I think it is important that in this legislature we address the reform of the Constitution in order to put an end to the outbursts of politicians. I would ask all of you, also my group, to be able to reach agreements among all of us to renew institutions that have been in the interim for an unacceptable period of time. I am referring to the General Council of the Judiciary, I am referring to the Ombudsman, the Presidency of the Transparency Council and the Spanish Broadcasting Council. The Government will no doubt bet on the principles of equality, merit, capacity, prestige and broad consensus in the election of these bodies. [[Rumors]] To regenerate our democracy, ladies and gentlemen, is also to honour the democratic memory of our country. We will therefore give new impetus to the policies of reparation for the victims of the Civil War and the dictatorship. [[Applause in the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] Following the recommendations of the United Nations, the State will directly assume the management of policies and actions for the search for truth, justice and reparation. Spain, ladies and gentlemen, is the first country in the European Union - the first country in the European Union - and the second country in the world - the second country in the world - in the number of missing persons. We cannot pretend that this fact is alien to us. Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us an exciting time, a time that will appear in history books because it represents a unique moment in the progress of humanity. It depends on us that this is a time for Spain where hope overcomes frustration. Now is the time to move forward. Today we can begin to correct the structural deficits in our labour market, in our employment. Today we can begin to lay the foundations for our leadership in the digital revolution. Today we can reaffirm our firm and unequivocal commitment to the ecological transition. Today we can all follow together the path opened by feminism in the cause for equality. Today we can begin to consolidate our welfare state to combat any form of social inequality. Today we have the opportunity to take the lead in the transformations that the Europe we believe in needs. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is not divided into seventeen autonomous communities and two autonomous cities, Spain is united in its diversity from seventeen autonomous communities and two autonomous cities. That is Spain in which we believe and have the conviction that our best moment has not passed, is yet to come. To build that Spain I ask for the confidence of the House, and I ask it not in me, but in Spanish society; I ask it not in me, but in Parliament itself, that it can only be started, in fact, when there is a government. And the Spanish, ladies and gentlemen, have decided to move forward; they have asked us to move forward and we are in a position to do so on the basis of agreements with various parliamentary groups, to which I would like to thank you, and very much to the Parliamentary Group of the United Nations. Ladies and gentlemen, we come from two different traditions on the left. So far we have talked a lot about our differences and we are seeing that it is not easy to reach a meeting point, but nothing worth it is easy and what we have ahead is worth a lot. We have on us the hopeful gaze of millions of compatriots. It is up to us to work to reach an agreement, and then we have the chance to bring forward all that we agree on, all that unites us. And what unites us is summed up in very few words, ladies and gentlemen, what unites us is the promise of the left, ecologically sustainable progress and the fair distribution of that progress; or if you prefer it in another way: a society of free and equal men and women in harmony with nature. [[A Member: How nice!-Applause]] Many people have put a great effort and a great illusion in us to unite our forces, but also in us to unite much more than our forces: to unite our sensitivity, our intelligence, our experience to improve people's lives and, in this way, to change the history of Spain. We must respond to that call and do so guided by the example of the generations before us and the Constitution that bequeathed us. Ladies and gentlemen of the conservative bench, I know that you would prefer to go in another direction to which I have proposed from this rostrum, but that, ladies and gentlemen, was decided by the Spanish on 28 April. I do not ask you to support this project, what I am asking you to do is to remove the barriers, what I am asking you to do is to allow Spain to have government, what I am asking you, what I demand of you, is for Spain to move forward. Thank you. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the Government in office, put to the floor.-Applause from Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejón, candidate for the Presidency of the Government addressed to his Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u14	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejon, candidate. The meeting was suspended until 16 hours. It was two o'clock in the afternoon. The meeting was resumed at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u15	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Let's resume the session. Take a seat, please. [[Pause]] We continue with the investiture debate. We begin with the speaking times of the parliamentary groups. As you know, they will speak in an order of majority to minority, taking the last word of the parliamentary group to which the candidate for the Presidency of the Government belongs. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Casado Blanco has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, candidature for the Presidency of the Government, two hours of speech; two hours of speech to say nothing, well, or almost nothing. [[Rumors]] To say that your government can be a historic opportunity of unpredictable consequences, under the cover of almost what Mrs. Pajín said about that planetary conjunction in which Mr. Zapatero and Mr. Obama were going to coincide; or to decide that it will achieve the harmony of man and woman with nature, that is, with a remix similar to what Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero also said with that of: The land is of the wind. But two hours without seeing the elephant in the room, without seeing the big purple elephant with a big yellow link that is in the middle of the Chamber and to which you have not referred at any time, as if it did not exist; in two hours. [[Applauds]] You have not referred to Podemos, nor have you referred to the independence partners; rather, you have sent them off with a final haze, a sort of bises after the verbena to see if, even so, you were getting your favor. It mixed great successes with some autochthonous topics, it started with the importance of China - I have taken note here -, the solution agreed in Venezuela - what a petty equidistance -, the decomposition, or you said the de-amortization of the Law gag, which is already a classic, the Spanish Radiotelevision, to see if he was making eyes to his potential partner, who sees that he likes, even animal welfare because of its confluences, ending of course with the usual appeal to the Civil War eighty years later, after having said in this House that the Spanish Transition had been exemplary, which in a certain sense is still contradictory. But when the orchestra has stopped ringing, we don't know if she's managed to dance to her partner or maybe it's that music was for the chair game. So, we don't know if your partner has run out of a chair or if you have run out of a dance couple. [[Applauds]] That is why, Madam President, it is very difficult to give the candidate the reply to the investiture because, apart from a Macedonian of generalities, all the letters have been kept in the sleeve. Perhaps the President should alter the order of the debate so that we can listen to Mr Iglesias, perhaps we can also listen to the spokesman for the Republican Left and Junts Per Catalunya, and we can know where this investiture is going. Look, Mr Sánchez, I take your candidature very seriously and I take your candidature seriously because, although you do not believe it, I also take your voters seriously, although you do not seem to do so with those of our parliamentary group, and I also take seriously and in consideration of the institutions involved, of course, the head of state who has ordered you to form a government, but it must be remembered that in these three years in this House there have already been three general elections, seven investiture sessions and two motions of censure, and the Spanish people no longer deserve that spectacle, of course, many of them motivated by their own immobilism. I will try to adapt to this interpretation of your words before listening to Mr. Iglesias, who I hope will give more data even in less time, with five rather general questions. The first is: Mr. Sánchez, what have you come here to do? Honestly, what have you come here to do? It has been eighty-five days, i.e. twelve weeks, three months, playing cat and mouse not only with this House but also with all the Spaniards, and we have a feeling of not knowing whether you really want to be president of the government or, rather, whether you intend to receive the votes in this investiture session to be invested as president of the government because, frankly, it does not seem so. To begin with, you have failed to comply with the provisions of article 99 of the Constitution for these sessions, as it is, first of all, to set out a programme of government. He has simply set up an electoral trap that has not been agreed or agreed with anyone, perhaps forgetting that he has only 123 seats. Secondly, the prediction of this article says that you must summon the confidence of the House, but your usual partners have ignored them, simply with that populist whom I have already referred to, in order to save the media from noon, and your opponents have demanded - textually, you have demanded us - that we do not bother basically, that we depart and have even come to say that if there was no government there could not be operation of this Parliament, perhaps confusing its strategy of the last few months with what must be the very mechanics of a rule of law in which the legislature should already be controlling it. [[Applauds]] Mr. Sanchez, this is an investiture session, not an imposture session. You were in a rostrum, not a pedestal. I mean, you can't come here to demand everything from everyone in exchange for nothing or, rather, to forgive our lives simply so that we can extend yours, as if you had an absolute majority when you have the slightest result that no other candidate for an investiture has brought to this House in the history of democracy. [[Rumors]] That is to say, in your opinion, your opponents have to become your subjects with the threat, if not, of surrendering themselves to the partners who entrusted you to the Presidency of the Government and with whom you have agreed in the last month in all kinds of municipalities, parliaments and autonomous communities or even with the threat of maintaining an institutional paralysis that you have created perfectly à la carte and with the connivance also of your party comrades who preside over these institutions. In short, you come here to say that we make you president for our own good or for that of the harmony of human nature, I also imagine, as if this act was one more act of validation of one of your decrees, that is, as if it were the stone of the instrumentalization of the institutions of the State with which you have marked your trajectory as president of the government. [[Applauds]] Therefore, the first question was: what had you come to do here? The second is: Mr. Sánchez, who are you really? Who are you? I do not say this because of the version of personality dissociation that made his vice-president of the Government famous because he has so many metamorphosiss that we no longer know if the person who has ascended this rostrum was in the phase of chrysalis or already of butterfly, we do not know exactly whether we are in the phase of 'no' or 'yes' because it is precisely those two points, those two milestones, that mark his political career. [[laughs]] The first a 'no' is explained in a long letter in which, by the way, he came to talk about the moral rottenness of the party that now demands us to abstain, moral rottenness. It's a good start too to get someone to dance in an investiture session. He even said that the sole responsibility for the motions of censure, in this case of the investiture sessions, was of the candidate, on that occasion Mr. Mariano Rajoy, who, we must not forget, offered you a coalition government bringing already the support of another party, as is the case with Citizens. By the way, Mr. Rajoy didn't even get the phone or want to meet with him, now that he complains so much about what Mr. Rivera does. However, a week ago he sent me a letter from several comrades of the socialist bench saying that the tactical abstention that the Socialist Party had to avoid the repetition of a third election, after the offer of a great coalition, after having reached another pact with a great party, as it was Citizens, was an honorable position, with which I wonder whether the attitude of those who did not abstain and resigned in order not to abstain was dishonorable. If it is honorable, what is the attitude of those who did not? That's what Mr. Sánchez, Mrs. Batet and Mr. Cruz did. Therefore, if that really was the first climax and the second was the 'no is no more' in this matter, the 'no is no more' in action, i.e. a motion of censure, it should be remembered that that motion of censure was managed or even negotiated by that purple elephant with a great yellow tie that you did not want to see, because precisely you arrived at the Presidency of the Government on horseback of the partners that now gives you shame to show in this House, even though you have agreed with them in many circumstances and moments. What's the matter, that you're ashamed of them or that you see a little more here? Or do you prefer it to look a little less? Conclusion: his political career is jealous in which, first of all, he breaks his party and then breaks our government and now he acts like he has a majority that he does not have and demands that the injured be supplemented. That is, that you put in place a new system of secular indulgences; you know, do not forgive sin but exempt yourself from penance. For you we remain as bad, as bad, as always, but you are willing not to remember it, even to absolve us, simply because the beneficiary of our vows is now you. I mean, for that stigma that you didn't impose to be deactivated, now we can redeem ourselves by making you president and that, Mr Sánchez, can't be. [[Applauds]] It gives me the feeling that they have activated a minefield from which they no longer know how to get out. They are hostages of the members of the motion of censure and therefore have made no effort to obtain further support. There is no document we know of and there is no proposal. As far as I know, no coalition government has been proposed and it does not even seem that the cooperation government is prospering. The last time you came to an investiture you did it with the support of Citizens. Ask yourself why you don't have it now. Perhaps because of what you have changed this year or because of what your partners have changed. Let me ask you a third question: Where are your real support? I'd like to know where his real support is, because last week we had the impression that he was experiencing a great conversion, a fall from the horse. We listened to him accuse Mr. Iglesias of being a person who went against democracy itself, who wanted to carry the constitutional monarchy, who was allied with dictatorships and even that he had not denied the right to decide, that is, self-determination itself. He did, it is true, after several months, in which he managed to get Mr. Iglesias to support him in ten deputations, in ten provincial capitals and in four autonomys, because they are still in negotiation in three others. This conversion reminds me of what I said the last time we had an opportunity to discuss, a few months ago, about what I had experienced with the independence parties. I set an example, that famous Casablanca sequence, in which Inspector Renault says: What a scandal, what a scandal, here you play!, as they introduce you to the winnings for having played the night before. You then discovered that the independenceists were independent and wanted independence and now you have discovered that Podemos is a party that is not in favour of the institutions that you have recalled - the monarchy - or that sees a right to self-determination in Catalonia or that even wants the Republic to come, which goes completely against the appeal with which you started your speech this morning to the Transition and the constitutional regime. You think you're the wildcard of the deck and you may have given that impression in the media in the last two months, but you have a problem: when this session is over, you'll have too many creditors at your door and you won't be able to meet all of them. With this amalgam of radicals you cannot fill the great hole of coexistence, legality and prosperity that they are putting at risk. You know that if you comply with them it breaks with Spain, but if you do not, every law and every budget will be a calvary for you. In short, with the radicals you can be invested, but you can't govern, because they think that Spain to which this refers is Spain, you said is an artificial mash of national entities without this nation itself being its own, perhaps that nation of nations to which the Socialist Party refers from time to time. Let me ask you the penultimate question: Mr Sánchez, to do what is presented to this investiture? I have listened very carefully to those six blocks of the future that Spain is facing: employment and pensions, the digital revolution, the climate emergency, equality between men and women, the fight against inequality and global challenges in the European Union. These are issues that we have also had the opportunity to discuss during the six long hours at the four meetings we have had in recent months. It gives me the feeling that the world, which does not stop as it has said, notes, however, that the President of the Government in office of Spain has indeed been stopped. It is a good voluntarism, they are good proposals, but there is no concrete programme of government, let alone of investiture, which shows that you have the support to put this into practice and, above all, to face the challenges that you have not appointed, for example, economics. He has spoken, yes, of combating inequality from the State and its strengthening. I agree. I remember those words of Bastiat, who said that everyone ultimately wants to live from the State without remembering that the State ends up living from all over the world. For that to be done, for redistribution to be possible, for inequality to be combated, it is necessary to remember what creates inequality. Inequality is generated by unemployment; unemployment in which, by the way, the Socialist Party is an expert. The unemployment generated in these governments - which now Rodriguez Zapatero himself admits were very damaging to the interests of Spain and on which the Secretary of State for Social Security, Octavio Granado, says they made it fatal - that unemployment still leaves pockets of inequality in the Spanish nation. There's already alarm lights on. We are seeing how in recent weeks, for example, the European Commission has raised the need for Spain to make an adjustment of EUR 7800 million. For example, the Ecofin, the IMF, the AIReF or the Banco de España are already turning on the orange or red lights because of Spain's slowdown. It is true that it continues to grow, but remember the phrase of Delors: The economy is like a bike, you can stop pedaling and the bike can advance, but if you do not resume pedaling, it ends up falling. That's what happens to economic reforms. The inertia you have of the macroeconomic reforms of the People's Party allows Spain to continue to grow, but there are already very serious signs of deceleration. For example, we have seen how last June was the worst in terms of unemployment in the last ten years; or, as much as we talk about indefinite contracts, they have fallen by 10%; or, when we talk about the destruction of businesses, which have fallen by 7%; or the turnover of industry, another 7%; or international investment, which is now only a quarter of what it was before you came to the presidency of the government. It seems that if you try to plot an investment pact with Podemos you mean, as the Minister of Finance said, that is the budget you reached with Podemos what would bring to this House. A budget that he does, so much that he talked about digital revolution, is to set a rate on technology; a great idea when there is a relocation of large companies by the Brexit, which he has not, by the way. It simply says that it wants to combat the climate emergency, but it does not want to do so with the urban fleets and neither does it want to do so with the excessive consumption of other boilers now that it was also talking about efficiency in housing, but it does so by raising the diesel tax to all Spaniards, 30% more diesel tax that will harm 17 million motorists. Or, for example, you were talking about the need to be competitive in education, right, but you weren't talking about the fact that education also has to be a global state policy, with that EBAU, that assessment at the national level that the People's Group has proposed, for example, so that there is no differentiation between all the autonomous communities. [[Applauds]] Nor has anything been said about what is happening to linguistic spies in the schools of Catalonia. Nothing has been said about the problem of bilingualism, the problem of failure at school or the problem we have in matters of trunking, or the right for children to express themselves in the common language of all Spaniards. You also talk about security, not just immigration. He seems already to forget all his promises in terms of removing the concertinas, of ending the returns in hot; in his case they made them, even in cold. Nothing has been said about whether they will comply with the salary equalization of the State Security Forces and Bodies that the People's Party has approved. [[Applauds]] Nor have you made any reference to whether you want to repeal the reviewable permanent prison, which you also brought to the Constitutional, because you said it was a measure that you would not take if you were President of the Government. But, above all, as I said at first, nothing has been said about Catalonia. He even talked about Cantabria - I think very well -, he talked about Extremadura - it was about time, by the way - in terms of infrastructure, but he didn't say anything about Catalonia, and, frankly, I think all the Spaniards that we want to remind him of is that you have been president of the government with alliances against the state. There is no comparable country in the European Union that has had parliamentary support from political formations that have settled into illegality and that continue to challenge the Spanish Constitution itself. I do not think there is even the need for you to make it clear, when you know perfectly well that all this arose from the problem of the statute, which you now want to hide with a sort of constitutional reform - you have appointed it for other matters - perhaps without knowing that today in this House with thirty-five Members you can submit to a referendum, and the demands would be much more than an electoral law or much more than a change in the name of people with some kind of disability. In short, why are you hiding the serious reality that Spain has in relation to independence in Catalonia? Is the proposal made by the People's Party to amend the Pardon Act to prohibit pardons in the event of rebellion and sedition something that you have under the table or is it something you told Junqueras when you asked him not to worry? Does it seem to you that it bothers your negotiations this week that we have proposed that the illegal convening of a referendum, as it was in the Penal Code before the Socialist Party came to change it, should be prohibited by law, also to the 2008 investiture partners' dictate? Are you concerned that we are saying that the Mossos d'Esquadra cannot take illegal orders, that judges and prosecutors cannot be crushed, that judges and prosecutors must also have their protection and remuneration commensurate with the danger they are, unfortunately, suffering right now in Catalonia? [[applause]] [[Applauds]] Are you concerned that we have proposed the modification of the Euroorder in the Community institutions so that it is automatic delivery for crimes of rebellion and sedition of those who are fleeing and living at the cost of the public treasury in a Council by the Republic, while their ministers simply say that the violence was admissible on 1 October or that there must be pardons or that they do not have to be in prison, to which you, by the way, have approached as President of the Government in Catalonia? Or do you now deny that your future partner, Pablo Iglesias, was going to negotiate budgets in Lledoners prison? Why has he not said absolutely nothing of those who are his partners or of those to whom, once again, in a surprising metamorphosis, he no longer only defends but also allows them to exercise some whitening? Because its partners are not only the independent partners of Catalonia; its partner in Navarre, to set up the Bureau of the Foral Parliament, has also been Bildu's abstention. And it must be said clearly that Mr Otegi, the independentists of Catalonia, or even Mr Iglesias de Podemos, all those who supported him in the motion of censure, have not been able to say that they regret having made him president. On the contrary, even Mr Otegi has gone to Spanish Television to be bleached and has said later that he wants you to re-govern because it is the best government of the State, as he has said. [[Applauds]] I ask you the last question: How long, Mr. Sánchez? How long are you going to play this game of trilers hiding the yellow ball, hiding Bildu's ball and even trying to hide the purple ball? How long are you going to wear that phony restraint and hand out centrism cards to the rest? I believe that when you spoke about dialogue with the majority of Spaniards, we will be able to understand each other on state issues. When are you going to start talking to most Catalans? Or is dialogue the prize that is reserved only for disloyals? When has moderation broken the principle of legality in Spain? Since when does centrism have to oppose the equality of all citizens? Do you simply call those who attack the Constitution and the law moderates or do we have to beg for that condition when what we do is try to strengthen it? I am the one who thinks, like Cánovas, that all of us here have an obligation, which is to continue the history of Spain. Frankly, I believe that in that proposal for the future we must widen the space of moderation; we must widen it as much as we and you can govern in it. I think it was not a good idea when the Socialist Party turned from that left-right axis to a constitutional axis against unconstitutionalism; because at that time what happened was that to us, who had won the center, by simply staying at that center and you going to the extreme, the partisan confrontation moved the axis. [[Rumors]] That is what has happened in recent years and that is what makes it impossible for us to facilitate their investiture. The Socialist Party has not yet squandered that health cord from the Tinell Pact in 2003, and that was what you were talking about this morning. We have demonstrated over the last few months that we are able to make pacts with different parties. [[Rumors]] In the last month with twelve political formations, with twelve. [[Applauds]] With twelve political formations during municipal, provincial and autonomous agreements. And, above all, at no time have we stopped reaching out to the covenants of state. We did it last year at the first meeting I had, as President of the People's Party, with you, as President of the Government. We offered our agreement in the five state pacts that you raised, remember: on infrastructure, defence, justice, gender-based violence issues to comply with the already established pact, and on infrastructure policy issues as well. Then we also offered our support for the General Budgets of the State. We told him that we would be willing to approve public accounts that would lower taxes, amortize debt and meet the public deficit. We also offered our support for the implementation of article 155 in Catalonia or, at least, the existing subsidiary laws: the Law on Foreign Action, the Law on National Security, the Law on Educational Inspection, or also to try to limit propaganda on public television. This year we have also offered him a pact in Navarre: the possibility of not letting the proetarras, that the abertzales, that those heirs of Batasuna had no responsibility for action or omission in the government of an autonomy as important as Navarra, and much less that from the Basque country opt for some annexation that, of course, went against the Constitution. We have also recently offered him three other state pacts: an educational pact, a water pact at a worse time of drought and a pact to study an electoral law that could unlock these processes, yes, but could also do so at the municipal or autonomous level. With regard to those pacts, we have had no news. Well, last year we had it: the budgets presented with Podemos and then the Pedralbes Declaration. By the way, Mr. Sánchez, is that statement, it's frozen, it's parked, it's forgotten? Because Mr. Torra said last week in La Vanguardia that you and he had agreed in your office that a political conflict with political mechanisms had to be resolved, and I would like to know exactly whether that is what you say to Mr. Torra in the office and then mutate again in an election campaign to hide it. [[Applauds]] That is why, Mr Sánchez, we are going to vote not for your investiture, because we do not agree, as Cajal would say, with that policy of short flight and short radio, because we do not agree that you come here to hide your negotiations with other political formations and because of course we do not agree that you try to hold your opposition and the alternative that Spain has to its bad government because you do not reach an agreement or do not want to make it public. Mr Sánchez, the history of your Government is the history of a vacuum. Today you have become grandiose when it comes to knowing what your contribution is to history, even of humanity. It is the story of a great void, that of functions and the one you have come to expose here today. It is simply your obligation - now it is - to give this House the information of which government you want to form, with which partners you want to support it and above all for what and with what benefits for all Spaniards. The People's Party will exercise loyal opposition and, above all, an urgent government alternative, which I hope will soon reach Moncloa. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Casado. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u18	Thank you, President. Mr. Married, I'm glad to hear you again. [[Laughter]] You have been a while, since last April 28th, without much prodigying yourself through the media, speaking rather little, but, Mr. Married, what I see is that you continue to be very, very wrong. You raised the general elections last April 28 as a sort of plebiscite, as a sort of referendum. The evil Sánchez had to be thrown out and, therefore, the evil Socialist Party of the General Administration of the State, of the Government of Spain, had to be thrown out. That was the proposal they made in their electoral programme and in their electoral campaign to Spanish citizens, and I believe that Spanish citizenship was quite clear, quite blunt in what they want for Spain over the next four years, and it is a progressive government, a government led by the Socialist Party and where the People's Party was actually moving to the opposition. It is therefore true that you come here and speak as if you had not passed the elections of 28 April, nor those of 26 May, with the same arguments of 27 April or even with the same arguments since you were elected president of the People's Party and, consequently, leader of the opposition a year ago. But after April 28, Mr. Married, you only have two options: either Government yes or Government no; you have the option of having a legislature or a block, stability or elections. That's where you have to get wet: you have to decide what you want to do, Mr. Married. [[Applauds]] I do not ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, to vote in favour, to applaud, to say yes to the Socialist Party Government; all I ask you to do is to facilitate the establishment of a Government in Spain. [[Rumors]] Yeah. [[Applauds]] I told you in my first speech, Mr Casado, that I spoke to you as the representative of the first political force in Spain, with 123 seats, indeed, as you have well remembered, but you must also remember that you have 66 seats, that the third political force in the Congress of Deputies has 57 seats and therefore have the same amount as we do. [[Applauds]] The only thing I ask you to do, Mr Casado, is to abstain, to facilitate the formation of a government so that there is opposition. [[Rumors]] Indeed. It should also be noted to your electorate, Mr Casado, that the various surveys of all the media are saying that the majority of the voters of the People's Party what they are required to do, what they ask their representatives in the Congress of Deputies to do is to facilitate the constitution of a government. [[Rumors]] Let us analyse the reality and also consider the parliamentary reality of the People's Parliamentary Group that you represent, Mr Casado. There is no alternative to a government of the Socialist Party. You more Citizens more VOX, which is what you are doing in many autonomous communities and also in many municipalities, do not have the capacity to have an absolute majority and to propose an alternative to parliamentary forces. [[Rumors]] No, of course not, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Therefore, what I ask you is that if you are a state party, if you are a party that claims to guarantee the stability of Spain, you facilitate the formation of the only possible government in our country, which is a government like the one we are proposing. You, Mr Casado, in this and in many other speeches have come to say something like that you are the alternative, you are the leaders of the opposition and, consequently, the leaders of the opposition and the alternative cannot facilitate the constitution of a government in this case of the Socialist Party. You also come to say that you do not want a government that depends on the independence forces, on the forces that for you and for many Spaniards who have voted for the People's Party believe that they endanger the national sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country. And, thirdly, you also say, Mr Casado, that you do not want an electoral repetition. Therefore, if you do not want an election repeat, if you do not want the Government of Spain or at least the inauguration of the Presidency of the Government of Spain depends on the independence forces, and you want to be the leader of the opposition and the alternative, I have bad news to give you, Mr Casado: you have to abstain. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] You have to abstain, because if you want to lead the opposition instead of Mr Rivera, you will have to allow there to be government. If you want the Government of Spain or at least the investiture of the Presidency of the Government of Spain not to depend on the independence forces, you and Mr Rivera will have to do something, because you have the key so that that does not happen. [[rumors]] [[Rumors.-Applause.]] And if you do not want, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group and ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, to have an electoral repetition, you can only guarantee and facilitate, with your abstention, the formation of a government in Spain. Of course I do, ladies and gentlemen. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] You, as Mr Rivera also does - I imagine in your speech you will do the same as you, because so much rides, so much rides - say that I have not spoken of Catalonia in my speech. For two hours I have spoken of Catalonia, as I have spoken of Andalusia, as I have spoken of La Rioja, as I have spoken of the Basque Country, as I have spoken of Madrid, as I have spoken of each and every one of the autonomous communities in the country. [[Applauds]] Of course I do, Your Honor. Or is it that, Mr. Married, when we talk about the state of public health, we are not talking about the state of public health in Catalonia? When we talk about employment, job insecurity or gender-based violence, aren't we also talking about social problems in Catalonia? When we talk about social inequality and child poverty, are we not talking about what we live in Catalonia, Mr. Married? [[Rumors]] [[Rumors]] What happens is that you use Catalonia and Catalans to disguise your enormous disloyalty to Spain by voting against the only possible formation of government. [[Applause from the Socialist Group, some of them on the stand, and from the Government in office]] I understand, Mr Casado, that you pose another kind of vicissitude, you are talking about the crisis of coexistence in Catalonia, the territorial crisis in Catalonia. It seems that Mr Casado and the People's Party forget that they have been ruling for seven years, that before those seven years they were in opposition, that they appealed to the Constitutional Court the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, which was validated not only by a large majority of deputies in the Parliament of Catalonia, but also endorsed by the Catalan people when it was raised by the Parliament of Catalonia. Ladies and gentlemen, do you have anything to do with what has happened in Catalonia over the past seven years? Where was the Socialist Party when the greatest state crisis in the last 40 years of democracy occurred? [[Rumors]] With the People's Party government. [[Applauds]] Do you know what's going on, Mr. Married? That I am certain - not the suspicion, the certainty - that if anything similar could happen in Catalonia under the mandate of the Socialist Party, you would not be supporting it as the Socialist Party supported the People's Party government. [[Applauds]] Of course we have proposed an alternative to Catalonia, we have proposed it in the investiture speech and we have also proposed it over the past twelve months. Of course, we have also done so in this speech for two hours, Your Honor. We have talked, for example, about the territorial and coexistence crisis, we have defended the autonomous state and we have said that any kind of solution that can be given to the territorial coexistence crisis in Catalonia will have to be done with the help of the autonomous state. We will also have to urge the parliamentary forces, the political forces of Catalonia and, in particular, the independence forces - which I repeat again here today so that it is written in the Diario de Sesiones, they do not have a social majority that suits them in order to impose their independence theses in Catalonia - to open a process of dialogue between Catalonia and Catalonia, that is, Catalans have to talk to Catalans. Therefore, what the independence forces have to do is recognize that there is a non-nationalist party in Catalonia that wants to remain in Spain. Does that mean we want to leave things the way they are? Honestly not. We are already very aware - all of us - that the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia has a problem of origin, and that it was appealed to the Constitutional Court, was cut by the Constitutional Court in a judgment, but was previously validated by the Catalan people, Mr Casado. [[rumors]] There is therefore a political problem that we will have to solve. Or don't you want to do anything to solve that political problem? [[Rumors]] You, Mr. Casado, live from the territorial conflict, seek the electoral revenue of the territorial conflict. [[Several Members: No!-Applause]] [[Applauds]] Mr Casado, let the citizens do it, let the ultra-right do it, has a pass - and I will speak to them later - has a pass, but that the People's Party, which has ruled with the Socialist Party these past forty years of democracy, assumes no responsibility for the deterioration of the coexistence that is now being lived in Catalonia, seems to me to be a colossal hypocrisy, Mr Casado. [[protests]] [[Applauds]] It is clear that we are talking about Catalonia when we talk about strengthening the common European project, it is clear that when we are talking about a Europe of the citizens, a Europe of the nation-states and a Europe that also captures the territorial, local and regional perspective of many of the regions and territories that make up the European Union we are talking about sharing sovereignty, that we have to learn the lesson of Brexit, that we have to learn the lesson that only by sharing sovereignty, breaking down borders can we make many of the challenges and problems that Catalan and Spanish society has to solve in an equitable and effective way. But frankly, Mr Casado, I tell you something that seems to me to be very important, at least to make it very clear: the only way to respond to the sovereignist process in Catalonia is to propose for Spain a project of progressive regeneration of European inspiration, which is what I said in my first speech. The way to respond to much of the social unrest behind the sovereignist drift of the Catalan political forces, which are now in independence when they were previously in Catalan nationalism, is simple and plainly to strengthen the welfare state, to end the precariousness of work, to talk about a project of political, economic, social and moral regeneration for Catalonia and for the whole of Spain where the corruption that you have represented over the past seven years is buried, among other issues. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] The reflection I would also like to make on you, Mr Casado, is where that speech you are making leads you. Honestly, look at you, look at your bench. Look, look at the bench. How many members of the People's Party are on behalf of the Basque Country? Let's raise one hand. [[Laughter.-Various Members: Everyone!-Protests.-Rumors]] It was a rhetorical question, ladies and gentlemen. [[Several Members: Ahhh!-Rumors]] We already know that we have Mr. Maroto for the Senate on behalf of the territorial chamber of Castile and León. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Zero, Mr Casado, zero deputies elected by Basque society to represent the People's Party in the last elections on 28 April and a deputy for Catalonia, Mrs Álvarez de Toledo, who is out there. [[rumors]] [[Rumors]] More than 40 Members have achieved only one. What do I mean by that, Mr. Married? That not only are the voters who are nationalists turning their backs on him in Catalonia and the Basque Country, but they are turning their backs on the constitutionalists in Catalonia and the Basque Country. And so you want to represent a national political regeneration project throughout the country? [[Applauds]] Look, Mr Casado, as I told you at the beginning of my speech, you have remained silent during the last few months after the elections on 28 April, but in this plenary session you cannot profile yourself. You must facilitate the investiture for the Presidency of the Government and there is government in Spain this week, Mr Casado. [[Rumors]] Yes, yes, you have to, Mr. Married. And you have to, look what I'm telling you, because all you've done is blame me, blame me and blame me. Do one thing, Mr Casado, an exercise of consistency with your own words and refrain from making Spain have a government and we do not see ourselves subject to a new blockade. [[rumors]] Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the Government in office, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u19	Thank you, Mr. Candidate for the Presidency of the Government. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Casado Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u20	Well, Mr. Sanchez, if you ever insult us a little more to the best we've decided to abstain. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] He's been about to change our perception. I was telling you this morning - I was thinking this weekend - that it was impossible to put forward an intervention for your nomination because we already know you, you are not a reliable person. [[Rumors]] No, I really mean it without that being offensive. [[Protests]] I will explain to myself: he is not a person whose actions have shown sufficient consistency for a parliamentary group to believe what he has said today, if I am understood that way. [[Applauds]] But why? It is very difficult to trust that the adalid of 'no is no' now say that we have to abstain and, moreover, as I said at the beginning, almost coerced. He has said to us: You must abstain. Listen, if you resigned not to abstain - I insist, it is that we are forgotten - after a second general election, after offering you a coalition government, which today has not been heard here, of course not anymore to us, but even to your supposed partners of your future government; neither showing any plan nor recalling the points of agreement that I have remembered and that at least you could ponder. Last year, when I went to his office and offered him a budget pact and a pact on Catalonia, some of my colleagues could have interpreted it as reckless or suicidal. That the one who had presented himself to the primaries of a party, suddenly, at seven days, went to the Presidency of the Government to visit the one who had thrown the government of that party for presenting a motion of censure with the worst companies I believe was something generous. That was out of responsibility. What was happening in Catalonia was already predicting - before Pedralbes appeared - that it was something very serious. You turned him down; you didn't even answer. I insist, I heard on television when he presented the budgets and then I heard about the Pedralbes Declaration, which is what forced you to call elections. And now it tells us that we have to abstain from obligation, for our sake, with a threat of going to elections for which only you would be responsible, as you textually told Mr Rajoy, and hiding what I just said at the beginning, and that is that you have not spoken of Catalonia, not because Catalonia is one of the different autonomous communities - which is absolutely something of Perogrullo - but because you are - and I say it again, although you have offended a lot - accomplice - that you seem to misinterpret it - but at best it is responsible if you do nothing to prevent illegality from continuing to encamp in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] I mean, you can't say that Catalonia is an autonomous community anymore; we would like it to be an autonomous community more, but it is that in Catalonia a battle is being waged right now for the continuity of the transitional system with which you started your intervention. In Catalonia, it is now being clarified whether the rule of law continues to advance or whether, in the end, national sovereignty is perverted in favour of a violent minority that has failed to comply with the law. It is that you cannot tell Mr Torra that there is a political problem, because the problem in Catalonia is legal: there are alleged criminals, according to the Supreme Court, who are doing what they are doing is subverting legality. It is not a political issue that can be negotiated, that can be tempered; it is a crime that the President of the Government in office is relativising, and that is very serious, Mr Sánchez. [[applause]] That's why I used to say to you: when are you willing to negotiate with the Spanish and Catalans? Or do you just talk to those who break the law? By the way, you're talking about VOX here, you said Torra was just like VOX, which was just as extremist as VOX. It's just that he said that just 13 months ago. To that gentleman of whom you said he was a xenophobic, a supremacist, you receive him walking through the sources of Machado de la Moncloa, with a yellow link that insults Spanish democracy, and then meets in Pedralbes to agree twenty-one measures that called Spain a Francoist country, that said that the monarchy was a post-Franquist institution, that made speech an international mediation, that needed a right to self-determination; that is, that they directly destroyed the constitutional system, and you hid it. He launched his vice president to make a monologue about the international rapporteur, and then you come here to hide what Mr Torra made public last week. And you know what Mr. Torra said last week? That you are President of the Government thanks to the votes of the Independence Members. [[Applauds]] That's the elephant in the hemicycle!, which you don't want to recognize. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, if you had come to this rostrum to say: I abjure all that I have done, you were right, it was not worth breaking the constitutional regime of 1978, it was not worth breaking legality and national sovereignty, it was not worth breaking the equality of all Spaniards for these months of empty government, in which I have turned the world around several times but I have not been able to bring a budget approved to this House. And therefore, I appeal to the constitutionalist parties to reverse the actions of this government in office and to put order in Catalonia, causing people not to be crushed, children not to be spied on in school, not to be labeled the portals, the wheels of cars and dung in the courts, which is not much to ask in Western Europe of the twenty-first century. [[Applauds]] But no, it comes here to say no, that in Catalonia absolutely nothing happens, and it comes here to be as supremacist as its partners, saying that here you can only represent the Basque Country if you are born in the Basque Country or Catalonia if you are born in Catalonia; that is, will you ask us for the DNI, the Catalan surnames as the independenceists do? Are you going to ask us to come here and simply feel a different part of what is a national community, the Spanish nation? [[Rumors.-Applause.]] I believe, Mr Sánchez, that what you want is what you've been doing for the past month - the goat throws it on the hill - wants to revalidate the support of the motion of censure. That is why you have no enthusiasm or objective when it comes to receiving the support of the constitutionalist forces, because, as I said before, you have come out of the space of constitutionalism. Why can't we agree with the Socialist Party? Because the Socialist Party in the Tinell Pact in 2003 and in the pact to approve an unconstitutional statute decided to make a clamp with the independence parties to expel the People's Party from the institutions. So anyone who wanted to be in institutions would have to be nationalist or left-wing. So how come you come here to talk about the memory of the Transition when you're expelling half of the Spaniards, at that time to the fundamental force in Spain in 2003, saying that the Constitutional Court was wrong when it handed down a ruling on the statute? [[applause]] That is to say, it comes here to tell us that the problem is that of the Constitutional, the problem is that of those who came to the Constitutional, the problem is that of those who are crushed, the problem is that of families who cannot school their children, that is, the problem is that of the victims and not those who are breaking all these issues that are essential in a democracy. That is why, Mr Sánchez, I say to you that you are not up to the task of being invested as President of the Government in this session, because you have said the same thing you have been saying in recent months, you have not learned anything at all; you continue to contemporating with those who want to break Spain, you continue to make us guilty of denouncing this national rupture, and above all, you continue to be on the wrong side of history, you continue to be on the side of those who want to stop serving the same nation, the same people. It is therefore not necessary to say how big Spain is, how much tourism it has and how much it needs to be claimed at international level; Spain must also defend itself in this Chamber. When he mentions those shots in this House or when he mentions a hundred-year history, what he has to be aware of is that the continuity of that history is now being freed. You intend to preside over a nation that your partners deny. You claim to be at the head of an institution that your partners deplore, and therefore, if you do not change your attitude, you are not worthy of any support from the constitutionalist parties because it would end up being a prolongation of the rupturist project that those, to whom today timidly leans their hand to support you, want to impose. [[Applauds]] We have this very clearly: we extend our hand to questions of state, not to forge a government against the state. We reach out to him to preserve the freedom and equality of all Spaniards, not to influence the differences and not to influence the scars between Spaniards. We reach out to you to seek the progress that is needed in Spain, not to claim the failed policies of the left, which have led us to unemployment, inequality and misery when you have ruled. We extend our hand to you precisely so that you begin to rule and have a loyal opposition, but not to revalidate, as you did in the motion of censure, one of the darkest stages of our recent history. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u21	Thank you, Mr. Casado. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u22	Thank you, Madam President. I will reply to Mr Casado from here because, honestly, I think the debate is running out. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] Yes, I think it would be much richer from the parliamentary point of view, even from the point of view of the interest of citizens, that we could talk precisely about all the issues that we have raised in the investiture speech; talk about employment, talk about the position of the different parliamentary groups in relation to a new work framework; talk about how we can sustain the public pension system, how we can put an end to the fiscal injustice that is being experienced - I mentioned in my first speech - in relation to some new realities linked to the digital sector; talk about how we can sustain our welfare state, how we can implement the State Pact against Gender Violence, how we can make state foreign policy and how we can contribute as a country to the construction and strengthening of our common project, which is Europe. But before we talk about all that, I also have to say one thing humbly, Mr Casado, and it is that, beyond all the disqualifications, the improbations or even some deviation - yes, like putting the Socialist Party back out of the constitutional framework or saying that this is not a constitutional party - we do not discuss the constitutional origin of the People's Party, so please do not do the same with the Socialist Party. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] Nor am I asking you to abstain for free. In the private talks that we have had, Mr Casado, I have also commented to you that if you consider it opportune to reach some agreements of state that can allow you or facilitate you to explain within your organization the abstention for Spain to have Government and, therefore, to run the legislature, and you can lead the opposition and stop competing with Mr Rivera to see who is leading the opposition; Mr Casado, there is that offer. Nor am I asking anything from the other world, except to respect the election result, except that Spain has a government, that Spain moves forward and does not join the blockade. But beyond talking about all these questions of state, Mr Casado, I believe that we must first solve in one way or another two questions, especially the two parties that during these last forty years of democracy we have ruled Spain. The first of these I have said in my first investiture speech, and it is precisely the reform of Article 99 of the Constitution so that it does not fall on the shoulders of a certain political party, whether it is the People's Party or the Socialist Party, to abstain and thus to facilitate governability in our country. I believe that it is something that we have to transfer the two parties of state to the whole of Spanish society, and not just because of responsibility, so that there is no electoral repetition that anyone wants and, secondly, also to the People's Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Parliamentary Group, so that it can happen eventually in the future. The debate is very poor, Mr Casado, honestly it is, and the reality of the situation we face in this investiture debate is very simple, it is parliamentary mathematics. [[laughs]] You have a disjunctive to resolve, Mr. Married or, rather, two disjunctives to resolve. The first is whether or not you are willing to facilitate a government in Spain. If you are willing, all you are asked to do is abstain; if you want to put Spain in the blockade, you will vote no and it will be clear. [[Rumors]] The second issue that you have to resolve, Mr Casado, is quite simple: do you want the investiture and the Presidency of the Spanish Government to fall on the shoulders of parties that you are stigmatizing by saying that they do not defend the unity of Spain or national sovereignty and territorial integrity or not? Because if you want the first thing, you will have to vote no, and if you do not, you will have to abstain in the vote tomorrow and next Thursday. Therefore, Mr Casado, I invite you to take a step forward, to put aside all the debates on criticisms, on party reaffirmations which, perhaps, indeed, are in the applause of an increasingly dwindling People's Parliamentary Group. Listen to what the citizenry said on April 28th and May 26th, centering on the People's Party, begins to be an alternative, starts to lead the opposition, but not by mouth, but by facts. And the first fact is to reach out, Mr. Married, to a proposal that I have made to you, honest, generous and responsible, and that we begin to have a government so that there is opposition and that the legislature goes on. [[rumors]] I would like you to think and meditate on the meaning of your vote, not for tomorrow, but for next Thursday. If you abstain, Mr Casado, the debate is over. If the People's Party abstains from the Congress of Deputies, Spain will have a government next Friday. You have asked me, Mr Casado, what I have come to this investiture session and I will answer you: I have come to gain the majority confidence of the House. I have come to offer an investiture programme that I believe is progressive, ecological, feminist, European, which is what citizens have said they want in a majority, expressed in the ballot box on 28 April. What have you come to, Mr Casado, to block Spain or to make it easier for a government to exist? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u23	Thank you, Mr. Candidate. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor for three minutes, Mr Casado Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u24	Mr Sánchez, the way he asks us to abstain is as if we say that if you want there to be government, abstain and let us govern with an alliance with other constitutionalist parties. [[Applauds]] You do not propose anything, you do not agree anything, it simply comes with your two hours of speech on six issues to which I have not referred because basically, less in economics, we can agree on the purposes. I have said that they are volunteers, but, frankly, I have to tell you that this is the first time in the history of Spain that a candidate for the investiture comes and after his speech and two replicas, we still do not know with whom he is going to form Government. For me it can be a surprise and I imagine that for your future partners, with whom you have been talking and negotiating for two months, it can be even outrageous, because you have not negotiated with me. You called me to your office and I'm gone. I have done so out of responsibility and, moreover, I insist, I have no problem with dialogue for six hours, twenty-four or thirty-six, which are necessary; it is my responsibility and, moreover, I like political dialogue. And I respect your party, if anything I have put in your face is that the Socialist Party has been in the last few years negotiating with those independenceist parties that, historically, you and we had set up a containment dam, precisely for the memory of the Transition, for the memory of our principles. Now, Mr Sánchez, with your forms, which are abstaining because yes and, moreover, with this speech that we have done without counting with you, you make very clear what I was saying to you earlier; how will we abstain if you would then begin to agree with those with whom you have without any need have been negotiating in recent years? This is like the fable of the alacran and the frog. You probably have good feelings or good intentions, but you go in your condition, Mr. Sanchez. In the end, even if it were suicidal for us and for you, I would continue to bargain with the independenceists, because I just said that what they ask makes sense. [[Applauds]] The great concern, Mr Sánchez, is that you have just said - you are the first President of the Spanish Government to say this in this House - that there is a political conflict in Catalonia, that the Constitutional Court has made a mistake and that we therefore have to pray to what they want to impose on us. How am I going to abstain if in the end I was giving a patent of course to the one who wants to have an complicity with those who want to destroy Spain? You yourself have answered your question. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]] Mr Sánchez, that is why I have told you these five questions in this speech. We didn't know where to throw in such a generalist two-hour intervention, without saying what he wants to do, who he's going to do it with and why he wants to do it. I have not told you with second or rhetorical attempts, no; I tell you because we honestly do not know what record you are in, and up to three and a half hours of debate you have not shown your true face. His real face is that he has a rupture project for Spain... [[Rumors]] Yeah, yeah, if he said so. What he said was that the Statute of Catalonia had to be reworked because the Constitutional Court had changed it. I mean, we're giving sovereignty letters to a minority in Catalonia that's been out of the law for too many years now. Therefore, do not pretend that we are complicit in that free decision; no one imposes it, Mr Sánchez. [[Applauds]] No one imposes on you that you have come here to court or not to quote the independenceists. He could have come here to try to raise a common ground with other constitutionalist parties, and he has not. Why? Because it's in your condition, Mr. Sanchez. That is why we cannot facilitate its investiture, because that investiture would be very damaging to Spain. [[Several Members: Very well!- Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, standing up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u25	Thank you, Mr. Casado. Mr. Candidate for the Presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Casado, a political leader can and has every right to put your organization into a maze, but you have no right to put Spain into a maze. [[Rumors]] You don't have the right. You have a responsibility, firstly, to your country; secondly, to your voters and, thirdly, to your party. Your voters and the country are asking you to abstain to facilitate a Government that, as you say, Mr. Casado, does not depend on the political forces that say they are against the Constitution, territorial integrity and national sovereignty. [[Several Members: No!-Protests]] You ask me, Mr Casado, with whom I want to take forward many of the things that I have put forward in my investiture speech, for example, educational reform; for example, ecological transition; for example, all those issues linked to the EU's state projects; or, for example, everything that has to do with the State Pact against Gender Violence, for example, to mention a few issues. Mr. Married, I'd like to do it with you, too. Notice, of the last twelve months in which we ruled before the April 28 elections, I simply give you a figure: more than 40% of the real decree-laws and parliamentary initiatives put forward by the outgoing Government have had the affirmative support of their parliamentary group. We will not, therefore, be doing things so badly for you to validate with your support or with your support in the form of a yes all the issues that we have raised from the outgoing Government. It is true that we need to talk about education, that we need to talk about the labour market, that we need to talk about taxation, the economy, the energy sector; that we need to talk about the autonomous state, about autonomous financing; that we need to talk about Europe and all that you have said in your speech and that I have also mentioned in mine. The only question, Mr. Married, is that you have the key to running the legislature. He's got the key even if it's 66 seats. Look, a few years ago you got 186 seats and today you have 66 seats, Mr. Married. Perhaps I should reflect on why what happened to the People's Parliamentary Group has happened. You used to tell me about the elephant, but the elephant is the corruption that has been suffered in your party over the last few decades. [[Applauds]] Because you forget, Mr. Married, that the motion of censure had nothing to do with Catalonia. The motion of censure had everything to do with a ruling by the National Court that the party, which you are leading today, has been illegally financed and enriched over the past few decades. [[Applauds]] It's that simple, Mr. Married. You tell me that I am the first Spanish politician to acknowledge that there is a political crisis in Catalonia. Mr Casado, I do not understand very well that you are surprised by this statement; of course there is a political crisis in Catalonia. With regard to the problem in Catalonia, I remind you of a few words from the adversary you had in the process and the struggle to lead the People's Party. She came to say, at the beginning of Mr Rajoy's second term, that the People's Party had probably been wrong in filing an appeal for unconstitutionality to the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia and that, probably, also behind that political-tactical movement that was then made by the opposition leader, Mr Rajoy, were a good part of the problems that are currently suffering in Catalonia. Therefore, I am not saying anything new, Mr Casado, I am saying something that is shared not only by the socialist bench, but also by former leaders of the People's Party in previous administrations, and not minors, but people who have occupied the Vice-Presidentship of the Government and so many others. Mr Casado, all I'm saying is that, logically, there is a political crisis in Catalonia and what I'm asking you to do is at least help the Spanish Government as much as the Socialist Party did or more when you were in the government. The People's Party is a state party. There are other games that aren't. Citizens clearly aren't. [[Rumors and Protests]] The far right is not. You are, Mr. Married, or at least when you ask the people for the People's Party, you probably share that statement, it doesn't matter who you vote for. Mr Casado, if we are unfortunately going to elections on 10 November next, I want you to know that 31 October is the deadline for knowing exactly whether or not the United Kingdom is leaving the European Union with or without agreement. Next autumn we will have the verdict of the trial and it is precisely because of all this judicial drift from politics. Catalan independence has clearly made mistakes in 2017, and you share, as I do, Mr Casado, what is the primary and the main one; that plenary session of the past 6 and 7 September in the Parliament of Catalonia, where, in fact, what they did was to blow up the status of autonomy and implement absolutely unconstitutional disconnection laws. But with the judgment of the trial in autumn, Mr Casado, with the deathline of the Brexit on 31 October, a party like yours must do a service to Spain, abstain, facilitate a government and not be in office at a critical time for Europe and at a critical time for Spain. [[rumors]] You may have, Mr. Married, many criticisms to make of me personally and even politically, you may even use all those arguments to win the applause of the bench, to win the applause of the militants, but you may be left alone from a social point of view. The only thing I ask of you, Mr Casado, is not that you say yes to me, but that you say yes to Spain, yes to Spain having a government, having an opposition, going through the legislature with your abstention. If you do, Mr Casado, you will give an example to all those who are giving lessons of constitutionalists, of defending Spain and of being centrist, and I will thank you, as the whole of Spanish society will thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u27	For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u28	Pure theater, Mr. Sánchez, pure theater is what you've been doing for the last three months since there were elections, dizzinessing the loser. And today he brings us here a trick of the bad guys; a trick in the gallery and I deal in the room next door with Podemos and the separatists; that's what he brought us. [[Applauds]] A speech set, a speech of cardboard stone, sometimes of cement; a speech that is not believed either you, Mr. Sánchez; a speech to mislead the Spaniards while in the next room you share chairs with Podemos and assigns to the coups. [[giving small blows to the cheek with the hand]] That's what you brought us here. And do you want us to talk about that set speech that you don't believe in? You want us to really talk about that giant smoke curtain that brought us here to the rostrum? No, let's talk about your plan; let's talk about the Sanchez plan, and let's figure out and explain to the Spaniards what the Sanchez plan is. Look, the Sanchez plan is a plan by which Mr. Sánchez wants to perpetuate himself in power by controlling public television, surveys, criminalizing constitutionalists and washing the image of his partners; that's the Sanchez plan. And we, Mr. Sánchez, have already warned you when you brought the motion of censure here and we will continue to do so; you have a plan, a plan that is good for you, a plan that is good for PSOE plugs, for Tezanos, for Oscar López, for Rosa María Mateo, for your party plugs; but it is a bad plan for Spanish families. [[Rumors]] I've got twenty-eight minutes left. It is a good plan for all of you Socialists; a plan that will go well with Mr Sánchez, but it will go badly to the families to which Mr Sánchez raises taxes; a good plan for his militants, but a bad plan for the rest of the citizens who are going to suffer his sectarianism; a good plan for his friends, for his partners, for those who want a pardon in a sentence in Catalonia, but a bad plan for those who defend freedom in this country. So, Mr. Sanchez, you have a plan, the Sanchez plan, and we're going to oppose it. To oppose is to oppose, but not to oppose Sánchez and the Government of Sánchez, is not much more; we will oppose the model of Spain you want, which is sectarian Spain, which is Spain to divide and conquer, which is Spain to insult the constitutionalists and to wash the image to which they have supported a coup d'état in Catalonia or to which they have legitimized terrorist attacks for so many years, their partners for this investiture. [[Applauds]] And as I was telling you, how is Mr. Sanchez doing this plan? Very simple, it is about criminalizing anyone who does not have the PSOE card, it is about stigmatizing all the constitutionalists who have defended freedom, equality and the Constitution for many years, washing Otegi's image on public television, pacting with the separatists the Barcelona Diputación, and removing the government from Citizens and UPN in Navarra to pact with Bildu, with the nationalists. That's the plan. The plan tries to stigmatize half of Spain; because we have discovered, Mr Sánchez, that according to you, there are twenty or thirty million fascists in Spain, because every time someone disagrees with his plan: fascist; that you are going to defend the 'proud' and you are from Citizens or another party and you are not socialist: fascist; that you are going to 8-M and you are not from PSOE: fascist. [[Applauds]] Yeah, yeah. That you oppose Sánchez's budgets: fascist; that you oppose Sánchez's electoral program: fascist. Do you know what's going on, Mr. Sanchez? You are the one who needs to have many fascists in Spain; you are the one who feeds hatred and confrontation between Spaniards; you are the one who knows, with your plan, that if moderate Spaniards shake hands, you are not president; you know that if Spaniards moderate themselves and do not go to extremes, you do not rule. But you prefer to divide and win. You prefer to treat voters of Citizens or People's Party by stigmatizing them, when we had always agreed to defend the Constitution. You prefer to agree with those who do not want the 155 rather than with those with whom we want the Constitution to apply in Catalonia. You prefer to agree with those who want to remove the government of Navarre rather than with the constitutionalists that we can govern in Navarre. Therefore, Mr Sánchez, and all the Spaniards who see us, Mr Sánchez, no one has pushed him to bargain in Navarre with Bildu, he has thrown himself in the iron. [[Applauds]] Who pushed Mr. Sánchez to bargain with the nationalists in the Balearics? No one has been thrown into the pool with them; he likes to talk about Catalan Countries instead of autonomous communities. Who has forced you to agree with Puigdemont and Torra in the Barcelona Parliament? No one, you've been throwing yourself in the head. I mean, he wants us to see all the Spaniards that Mr. Sánchez has a plan a year ago, and it's the rest of the mortals' fault! No, no, the fault of your plan is yours and only yours. You are responsible for that sectarian plan of division and confrontation, and that is why you must oppose the Sanchez plan. You have to oppose the Sanchez plan... yes, yes, laugh, but the Spaniards you've been set up and confronted with is not funny, Mr. Sánchez. You laugh at the families you're going to tax. You laugh at the citizens who have to live in Catalonia under the nationalist yoke. You laugh at Judge Llarena, who gets painted in his house while you want to give justice to Mr. Torra. It doesn't make me any fun, though it does make you funny. [[Applauds]] So here it is about criminalizing the moderates and applauding the radicals, it is about criminalizing the constitutionalists and agreeing with those who want to liquidate Spain. And the question is, who are you going to carry out this plan with, the Sanchez plan? Well, with his band. Great band; with Otegi, offering, with the nationalists in Navarre, with those of Més in Baleares, with the nationalists in the Valencian Community, with Podemos carrying the economy of Spain. Those are his band's partners. He's got a plan and he's got a band, and the question is, has the band come together for this investiture in the next room? Also, but the band has been operating for a long time; it is a band that has been operating for a long time because you rule in the Basque Country in a bipartisan with the Basque Nationalist Party. No one pushed him to bargain with the nationalists in the Basque Country, you did; no one pushed him. And you rule in the Balearic Islands with the nationalists because you want to, not because the constitutionalists have forced you. Why did you agree to the Barcelona Diputation with Torra instead of the constitutionalists? Because you have from members of the band to Mr. Torra and company. So there's a plan, the Sanchez plan; there's a band, those who want to liquidate Spain or those who don't believe in the market economy or free trade, and that plan is the one you bring us here today. It is therefore far more important today to vote against this plan than to vote even against a Sanchez government, because that plan is a plan for a decade. We've got him, Mr. Sanchez. You, when you came to the motion of censure, didn't do it for corruption. Do you know why you didn't do it for corruption? And now I'm gonna ask you a question, and if you answer it, I'll shut up. [[Rumors]] If you say that the problem of the motion of censure was a case of corruption by the People's Party, will you resign if there is a condemnation by the ERW of the Socialist Party, yes or no? Are you going to resign, yes or no? [[rumors]] Answer me. [[Applauds]] If you go up to this rostrum and say you will resign if you condemn your party for the EREs, then we will begin to believe you. If you commit yourself - I asked you in two electoral debates before 18 million Spaniards; unless you have rectified - and you say: I resign if there is condemnation by the EREs, then we will start to believe you, but while I believe you have a plan since you set up the motion of censure, which consists in reaching power, perpetuating and criminalizing political rivals. And I do not want a Spain, Mr Sánchez, where people who think differently are criminalized; I do not want it. I do not want a Spain with partners of a band who want to liquidate my country and criminalize those who worse or better, with different projects, want to defend unity and equality between Spaniards. And the question is also since when is this plan going on, is that plan being negotiated here, in the next room, in the panic room, while I brought the smoke curtain here? Yes, panic for many Spaniards who panic that we are taxed or pardoned; panic for many Spaniards. That's the panic room for many Spaniards. Since when is it being executed? Is it new? No, since you rule with the nationalists in the Basque Country, since you in Navarre pretend that we do not govern the constitutionalists, from your governments in Catalonia in some municipalities or in the parliament with the nationalists and separatists, since you rule in Balearic Islands or the Valencian Community with the nationalists. You come long, Mr Sánchez; you came to power with the nationalists and the populists and you want to continue to rule. [[The candidate for the Presidency of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejón, makes negative gestures]] Yes, yes, Mr Sánchez, you have perpetrated that plan with a band, but I have bad news for you: you want there to be no opposition in this Parliament, but there will be opposition at least from Citizens. [[Applauds]] So the Sanchez plan is underway, the band already knows what it is, and now it wants to put it in the national government as well. We know he's been doing it, at least, since the motion of censure, I'd even say that since he got kicked out of his party. You wanted a government like this and Mr Rubalcaba, who rested in peace, said that that was a Frankenstein government. Well, you bring here today a proposal - rather, you don't bring it, that's in the next room; here you bring us a smokescreen - and you're setting up a Frankenstein government, when you were kicked out of your own party just so that you didn't set up a Frankenstein government. Well, you're organizing the Frankenstein today. And the question is also who benefits from the plan, because if the plan were good for most Spaniards, we wouldn't have anything to say, no. No, the Sánchez plan benefits mainly Mr Sánchez, he is the main beneficiary of his plan - hence the name of the plan - but also the five hundred plugs that you have put to your finger in all the administrations, in all the public enterprises. Beneficiaries of the plan? Mr. Tezanos, who manipulates the polls with public money; Mrs. Rosa María Mateo, who manipulates public television to Mr. Sánchez's dictate with the money of everyone; the former secretary of organization of the PSOE, who directs Paradores without knowing of hotels; his former chief of staff, who directs Correos without having hit a stamp, and so a long list. That's the list of beneficiaries of the Sanchez plan. That's the Sanchez plan, a plan that Sanchez benefits from, the five hundred friends and plugged in, and the PSOE activists. Little more, Mr. Sanchez. Families, to pay more taxes; half of the self-employed cannot go on holiday this year, no matter how much you say, precisely because of the economic situation; many of the Spaniards who are seeing us are concerned because it seems that to disagree with the PSOE is to be a fascist, when it is simply to be a Democrat and not to be socialist. That's the Sanchez plan, that's its beneficiaries. Who were the injured? The Spanish families, to which no one plugs to direct Posts and who have to make an opposition. Those are the injured; the middle working classes, who are going to have to pay more taxes, or an economy where the only thing that happens to Mr Sánchez and his partners is, every time there is a problem, to raise taxes. [[applause]] Sánchez laughs at the Spaniards, literally, at the moment, but to me it makes no grace, Mr Sánchez, and to many Spaniards neither because they worry the government that you are going to form. And the question is what is also causing the Sánchez plan in Spanish society. Well, look, Mr. Sanchez, you're causing large doses of sectarianism. I am concerned, like many Spaniards, about the sectarianism that you are leading in this country. Such sectarianism is dangerous to society. When you criminalize someone who thinks differently and doesn't allow some gentlemen to defend things just like you, whether you agree or not, that's dangerous for society. You're working with the sectarians; you're working with those who sow hatred; you and your government ministers are legitimizing professional haters, and I don't want a country where ministers legitimize hatred, but fight hate every day. I do not want a sectarian government but a government that disagrees but with which I can agree on some issues. Now to go to 8M you have to ask Carmen Calvo for permission. If any Spaniard is watching us and is not a PSOE activist, send him a letter, an email or a text message: 'CARMEN CALVO BONITA 8852 I want to go to 8M'. [[Applauds]] Yeah, we'll call him, yeah. Now, to go to 8M you have to call Carmen Calvo, to go to the Pride you have to call Marlaska, that the streets are yours, as Fraga would say again, because you cannot go to the Pride if you are not socialist, of course! [[Applauds]] Because, of course, to defend equality between men and women we have to be a militant of the PSOE, gentlemen, not a Spanish citizen and a Democrat: a militant of the PSOE, who have not heard!, who are fascists all the others! To go to the Pride, even if you're gay, lesbian, straight, or whatever you want, you have to be a PSOE activist because if you don't, Marlaska points you out and you fall for the octopus. Yes, Mr. Marlaska: the octopus. You, who are the Minister of Freedoms, have unfortunately dedicated the day of the Pride to pointing out that they attack the freedoms of many Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Shame on you! Shame on you! I say one thing to you, Mr Marlaska: when you were at the National Court - you will remember - and you were harassed by some who supported terrorism so that you would not issue sentences at liberty I always publicly defended you, and I would do it again today if necessary. That's the difference between you and me, that I always defend freedom. [[Applauds]] In the Sánchez plan you have to be socialist to defend equality or go to 8M, you have to be socialist to be of any sexual condition. Basically, the main thing is to have a PSOE card for everything, to have a job, to go to the Pride, to go to the 8M, for what you want; now, that's right, as you're not a PSOE activist or discrepancies in PSOE policies, you're fucked up, with forgiveness. And I don't want a country where sectarianism is led by the president of the government or his ministers. We know there are haters, we know there are sectarians, but I don't want them on my government's blue bench; I don't want them. That is why we must oppose the Sánchez plan; that is why we must oppose this government, rather than its government, for the Spain they want to sow, a Spain of sectarianism, of reds and blues, of confrontation, a Spain where the moderates have no place, where we must be with Sánchez or against Sánchez. No, there are many nuances, Mr. Sánchez, and you don't have to ask permission to go anywhere. Because to go to Alsasua you have to call - here you have to be calling all day to go to a place - you have to call the Basque nationalists or the Navarra nationalists, or to go to Renteria you have to call Otegi and to go to Catalonia to the village of Puigdemont you have to call Puigdemont. I want a country where I can go wherever I want without calling anyone. That's the country and Spain I believe in. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, the difficult thing to defend freedom is not to defend one's freedom, but to defend the freedom of others. That's being liberal, that's defending freedoms. Defending the freedom of oneself can be even selfish, it's basically common sense too, but defending the freedom of others is what you don't do. You, when this happens, not only shut up, but grant. Mr. Marlaska is still in his seat after what he said. Mrs Calvo, after what you said and what you have done with many women from Citizens and other political formations, here follows. If what Mrs Calvo had said had been said by a citizen's person, we would have been fried, she would have had to resign thirty-four times, but Mrs Calvo has her support and there she remains as vice president. Because Mrs Calvo and Mr Marlaska do not say that by chance, they say that because Mr Sánchez and his plan is what they need and they think for the coming Spain. I want you to have living spaces in Spain that come - no matter how socialist, liberal or conservative you are. I want a country where you can go wherever you want and whenever you want without asking permission from the President of the Government. I want a country in which the Government is controlled by the opposition, but in which State agreements can also be reached. I don't want a country of ideological trenches again. You spoke before the technological revolution but still in the 20th century: in the left and right and in Franco. We are in the 21st century, forty years ago from the Constitution, do you really continue to divide the Spaniards into good and bad? Is it really the shade to be a good or bad Spanish to be left, center, right or mid-pensionist? I do not believe in that Spain, Mr Sánchez, my model of Spain is antagonistic to yours: it is precisely the opposite, that of freedom against sectarianism, that of equality against inequality, that of the government with which they want to liquidate Spain or governments with which we want to defend Spain. For all this, it is an obligation to oppose your plan; it is an obligation to oppose, control, monitor and dismantle it. [[Applauds]] Because we have some bad news for you: we're going to dismantle the plan. That plan that you have and that you sell of smoke and chords but that you agree here, in the panic room, we will dismantle it. Now with 57 seats instead of 32, now with more strength, now with almost 4 300 000 Spaniards behind us, who voted precisely for us to monitor their plan, who voted for us to dismantle their plan. They did it with one characteristic, which we told them what we were going to do with their vows. That's what we're gonna do here. [[Applauds]] Today you have dared to talk about the family law, with that one. I'd love it to be that way, but it's not going to be that way. You know why? Because you once again believe in PSOE families, not all families. If we talk about families, with that one, why are they criminalizing shared custody? Why did you oppose the shared custody law that brought Citizens into this House? What's wrong with a father and mother sharing responsibilities? Don't be old, don't be 20th century, please. Parents in this country have the right to shared custody, please stop blocking shared custody. [[Applauds]] Families, with that, but with the PSOE card, because the families of surrogate gestation, according to Mrs Calvo, have to go to Ukraine. No more hypocrisy. Mrs Calvo, your speech coincides with the most retrograde of this country. You make the same speech that the most extremists make on the other side, criminalizing and insulting LGBTI couples or mothers who cannot have children and agree with other mothers in a regulated way. Do you know what happened in Portugal? That a left-wing government, as has already happened in the United Kingdom, Canada, the United States and many other places, has passed a law to regulate surrogate pregnancy. Are they also fascists their socialist comrades? [[Applauds]] Family law is the one that has brought Citizens, in which all families are in. Some speak of natural family, as if others were not natural, like Berbers. No, look, we're all natural, I also say that for some retrograde speeches on both the right and left sides. Family we are all, because in a family the only condition is to want to live together and there is love, there is coexistence. That's the only requirement. Here, to our left, subrogacy and shared custody is not family, and here, to our right, LGTBI families are not family. In the centre and in Citizens all family models are families. [[Applauds]] Speaking of families, take the wallet, especially the middle class families, because Mr Sánchez already sent a document saying that he was going to raise the taxes 26 billion; We can be sure that he is not hiding and has always said that he wants to raise the taxes to the Spanish families. And I wonder: if you every problem in Spain solve it by raising taxes, in the end everyone ends up paying taxes and flee those who have to invest and those who have to hire. Have you socialists ever thought that there are other methods other than raising taxes? Every time there's a problem, I impose, I sablazo the families. Have you thought about incentivizing other different behaviors? Have you thought about encouraging investors and those who hire? Have you thought of making labour market reforms that do not lead us to the precariousness that you - and, by the way, the governments of the People's Party - have taken us for forty years? Have you thought that education is a fundamental part of that and not sectarianism to use education? We do not solve everything by raising taxes, Mr Sánchez, we do not solve everything in Spain by raising taxes. I told him that half of the self-employed can't go on vacation because they have to run, because they have to pay taxes and you want to raise the IRPF and you want to crush them. Well, we're going to defend the self-employed from that tax hike and the families to help them have children, of course. Because families, if they want to have children in this country, can't, most families can't afford it. We're going to be next to the families, we said it in the campaign, we've done it with the first bill we've put forward, the family bill, and we're going to keep doing it so that the tax saber you're preparing doesn't affect your pockets. Mr. Sanchez, you've filled your mouth when you talk about equality, but you're the king of inequality, you're the president of inequality. In Spain today there is more inequality than ever between students from different autonomous communities. In Spain today, with the 'cuponazo', twice as much money is invested in education in the Basque Country as in other autonomous communities. That's inequality. In Spain today a civilian guard and a national police charge 20 or 30% less than a mosso d'ésquadra or an ertzaina. That's inequality. In Spain today it is not possible to learn in Spanish or Catalonia or in other autonomous communities. That's inequality. Today you can't be an official and go with your family to work in Balearics because you, the Socialist Party, prevent many officials, doctors, etc. from working in Balearics. Therefore, those who are generating inequality are the Socialist Party's nationalist partners. Because nationalists don't like equality, they like privilege, they like to stand before others, they like to feel superior to others, and we believe in equality. So, Mr Sánchez, equality is defended by facts: a unique health card for all Spaniards, equality to be able to study anywhere in Spain, to be able to work wherever you want. That is the inequality that you are generating. [[Laughs from Mr. Candidate for the Presidency of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejón]] Yes, you laugh, but as you get sick this summer, a Spaniard who is seeing us and wants to go to another autonomous community and have to take care of you will fill you with bureaucracy, when what needs to be done is to take care of you in public health. That's what needs to be done. [[Applauds]] You in your speech have discovered the right to education. I invite you to read the Constitution. Mr Sánchez, there is the right to education. Where does the limit of the right to education set in the Constitution? A right that already exists, the right to education, has been removed from the sleeve. In addition, the Organic Law of 2006 guarantees permanent education not only for young people, but for all citizens. What brings us here? The training courses in Andalusia? Is that your right to training? [[Laughter and applause]] The training courses of the PSOE in Andalusia are not to be trained, they are to be filled, so that socialist militants can be supplied, these are the training courses. [[Applauds]] So, if Mr. Sánchez has led inequality, imagine with the band he carries and the partners he carries: more inequality. We oppose your plan, we oppose your partners and we will oppose inequality. But I do not agree with a statement I have heard before. They said Mr. Sánchez didn't say anything about Catalonia. Discretion. You have not said a word but you have said everything, because not having a word for the main challenge to Spanish democracy is to say everything, Mr Sánchez. That is to say who your partners are, that is to say what you want to do there and look away when most Catalans feel helpless by your government and partners. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez in his programme proposes that Torra name the judges in Catalonia. Mr. Sánchez in his program proposes that Torra name the judges! But have you seen the one that the separatists and the couptists in Catalonia have linked without naming the judges? Can you imagine Torra putting and removing the judges in Catalonia? Yes, yes, you propose that the Justice Council be the exclusive competence of Catalonia. Ask Mr. Iceta, who's doing the election program for him. He and all of you stand up for the judges to put them in Torra. I strongly oppose the fact that some thugs appoint judges in my country. I want the judges elected by all, the judges with an urn at the General Council of the Judiciary, not at a Council of Justice in Catalonia. You believe that the problem is the Constitutional, when the Constitutional is part of the solution to the abuses of democracy committed by its partners. Mr. Sánchez, you told Mr. Married that there is a legal drift because of politics. Look, prevarication is not political; prevarication is a crime, which is what the thugs have done. Sedition is not political; sedition is a crime. Prevarication is a crime, misappropriation of public funds is a crime. But what are you talking about? What world does he live in? Is it really thought that someone has pushed Junqueras to prevail, that someone has convinced the separatists that they had to embezzle funds? Did we force them? This is not as good as you don't give me the reason I commit crimes and it's your fault. No, look, if you go in the opposite direction hitting people, the suicidal driver is you, not me, and that's what's going on in Catalonia. So, Mr Sánchez, with those who want to liquidate our country there is nothing to talk about; law and justice. And you do the opposite, not talking to the constitutionalists and talking to those who do not want dialogue, but want imposition. Mr Sánchez, I do believe that Catalonia must be part of Spain, but a Catalonia with the same rights and freedoms of its citizens as the rest. I am Catalan, but I do not want privileges for my land, I want all Spaniards to be equal. I am Catalan and I am proud, but I do not want it to be possible in my country to study in Spanish or to impose ideologies and indoctrination on us in schools. I'm Catalan, but I don't want to cross a border or a wall to visit my compatriots. I am Catalan and, precisely for that reason, I am Spanish, and my way of being Spanish is to be Catalan and precisely defending the Constitution. And yes, Mr Sánchez, if the Constitution is to be applied, it is applied without problems, because 155 and the Constitution were democracy and the imposition was precisely to skip the law. [[Applauds]] Mr. Sánchez, to distribute to the judges, call Mr. Married, don't call me; I don't want politicians to choose the judges, I want to change the Law of the Judiciary so that the judges will choose the judges. Mr Sánchez, to distribute Spanish Television call your partners or even Mr Casado; I don't need to be called because I don't participate in your idea of distributing and fingering the one you currently chair Spanish Television. I want him to resign and there's a public contest to make them the best. Mr. Sánchez, to block the study of your doctoral thesis or Mr. Married's master's degree to me do not call me, agree between you, who make it easier. To cover up the shames of EREs and corruption do not call me, call among you. But I will call you; I will call you to support the committee against depopulation whose establishment we have presented in this House. Yes, I will call you, despite what I disagree... Yes, I will call you; I will call you to talk about Spain, not to negotiate with those who want to break Spain. [[Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejon, candidate for the Presidency of the Government, made gestures to the speaker.]] [[Applauds]] Yes, Mr Sánchez, because from the opposition Citizens will lead the state pacts against depopulation, against terrorism - subject on which we will continue to support that pact; let us disagree with what we disagree, we will always be against terrorism -, against climate change, we will also lead a pact for science - we have talked about it you and I. Of course I do. Is there room for understanding? Yes, for state pacts where you don't have to rely on nationalists. But you have done quite the opposite, Mr Sánchez: insult the constitutionalists and shake hands with the nationalists. Do you know what you have offered the constitutionalists to this day at 6 p.m.? What did you offer? Insults; insults to carry the flag of your country, insults to disagree with Sanchez. Yes, that's what you've offered, you've offered squabbles legitimizing those insults. Yes, yes, Mr Sánchez, the spokesman of the Socialist Party called us dogs Fernando Savater, the victims of terrorism and Citizens for defending the Civil Guard in Alsasua: dogs, feces, fascists. That is what you have done with the constitutionalists to this day. And you're surprised that the constitutionalists want to watch you with a magnifying glass? A magnifying glass this big we're going to put on, because it's not that we don't trust you, it's that we know the plan you have; we in Citizens do know that. So, Mr Sánchez, as a reflection, you have to answer some questions in order to be president and you have not answered any questions. I ask you here - many Spaniards will ask that question - when is Mr Marlaska going to cease because of the statements he made? When? When are you going to expel Mrs. Chivite from the PSOE for pacting with Batasuna? When? When are you going to repeal the law that allows politicians to elect judges? Or when will Mrs. Rosa Maria Mateo resign to make a public contest? When will Tezanos resign and put someone objective in front of the CIS? When are you going to raise taxes and how much? When will that unique health card be approved? When will it be possible to ensure that it is studied in Spanish at all schools in Spain? When? When are you going to change the law so that there are no barriers and that officials can work throughout Spain? When are you going to explain to us if you're going to respect the sentence of the thugs? Mr. Sanchez, if there's a sentence, are you going to pardon the thugs? Are you going to look the Spaniards in the eye to forgive the punishment, through the government, those who are condemned for justice? And finally, Mr. Sánchez, will you resign - I repeat - if there is a conviction of the EREs, yes or no? Will you resign if there is a conviction? These are some of the questions asked by the Spaniards. It's over, Mr. Sanchez. The comfortable thing today would be to look the other way and that Sánchez governs and executes his plan with his band, the comfortable thing would be to look the other way before the nationalists and not to denounce what they intend, but the right thing is to confront them, the responsible ones is to oppose that plan, the decent thing here today is to oppose that plan, to monitor them and to lead an opposition that can offer the Spaniards an alternative. The right thing is to go to all the places in Spain; the comfortable thing would be not to go to Renteria or Alsasua or the village of Puigdemont or when Mrs Calvo tells us to 8M or the Pride, but the responsibility is to go to all the places where freedom is defended, and we will continue to do so. The easy thing would be to raise taxes every time there is a problem instead of making reforms and helping families, the easy thing is to divide judges instead of being chosen by the judges or fingering those who run Spanish Television instead of being chosen by the best. But we have not come here to do the easy or the comfortable; we have come to this House for a long time to do the right thing, even if it is difficult. So let's vote that not with both hands: not the Sanchez plan, not the band that's going to execute the Sanchez plan. Because, as Fernando Savater would say, opposing the Sánchez plan is not to be left or right, it is to be sensible. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause from the Members of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.- Mr Rivera Díaz's applause to his parliamentary group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u29	Thank you, Mr. Rivera. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u30	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Rivera, it's good to see you. It's good to see you. [[Laughter and applause]] There's been a lot of speculation these past few weeks when you haven't been comfortable meeting with me, there's even speculation in the media that we had some personal problem you and I. I have to say, Mr Rivera, that there is no personal problem, indeed, and I wish you the best in personal terms, and I am certainly glad that you have recovered from what happened to you this week. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: No]] But I do have to tell you, Mr Rivera, that from a political point of view you are very, very wrong. Look, you've put a health cord on the Socialist Party and with it you've tied yourself to the far right. You come here and from this rostrum you say: theater, pure theater. Theatre, Mr. Rivera, it's a pact with the far right and try to make it look like an accident. [[Applauds]] You, Mr Rivera, with all these expressions of beating, banding, sanchistas and the Sánchez plan and all these questions that you always bring up every time you have the opportunity to speak, you think you insult, but you don't do so, Mr Rivera; what you do is demonstrate your capacity for contempt. I would like to ask the Citizens' bench and yourself, Mr Rivera, how many votes the Socialist Party has to vote for Citizens and how many seats we have to have the Socialist Party and Citizens' so that they do not use any posters or labels like the ones you always put in order to recognize once and for all socialist voters and socialist positions. [[Applauds]] You come to this rostrum, Mr Rivera, to give lessons in democracy, but I tell you one thing: in democracy you respect the adversary, and you have no respect for the adversary you have a problem with democracy, and that is you, Mr Rivera, every time you go up to this rostrum and address those who do not think like you. [[Applauds]] Democracy is substance and form, Mr Rivera; democracy is substance and form. And you, by refusing to hold meetings with me, have not only set an example of your bad way of understanding politics and doing politics, but not only have you not given way to a mandate that I received from the head of State as a result of being the first political force on 28 April, but you are in contravention of the mandate of the citizens, because, indeed - and you have said so in your speech - there is no absolute majority: I have 123 seats and I am therefore far from the 176 seats so that I can form a government as I would like, but what I say to you, Mr Rivera, is that it would also be important to have dialogue and negotiation with your parliamentary group so that Spain will not be blocked, the legislature will move forward and we could have a government. Because that is what we are talking about, Mr Rivera, ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, we are talking about whether Spain has a government or not, whether we have a government or are going to the institutional blockade with the serious risk of being able to go to elections on 10 November. That is the point, Mr Rivera. I am not asking you to vote in favour of my candidacy, I am not asking you to applaud the investiture speech or the programmatic approach that I am doing for the next four years; I am just asking you to abstain, to facilitate the formation of a government, which you will then be able to call as you please, to insult us in the way you are used to and to make opposition as you please, but it would be good, Mr Rivera, if at least you were clear what the reality is: you neither lead the opposition, because the Spaniards did not want it, nor lead the right. It therefore facilitates the formation of a Government in Spain. Don't listen to me, at least listen to your voters, Mr. Rivera. In all the polls - and not just that evil Tezanos you always disqualify when you have occasion - they say that at least 70% of citizens' voters want you to facilitate the investiture and that there is government in Spain. 70% of voters, Mr Rivera, 70% of citizens' voters call for government and for citizens to abstain in the formation of the government in this investiture debate. Declaring yourself in voter rebellion is a bad business for you and for Citizens, but that's the least: it's a bad business for Spain. That is why I ask you, Mr Rivera, to abstain for the good of Spain and to abstain for the country you say you so much love and to whose stability you say you contribute so much. Because you have taken a very dangerous drift, Mr Rivera, you have finally taken this rather conservative, aznarist mantra, I would say, the worse, the better. And, Mr Rivera, the worse, the better, the worse, the worse for you, for your party and, above all, for the country. We have seen in recent months after the elections a fairly intense internal debate in its political formation. There has been quite an intense debate. So much so that there have been people like Valls... I imagine that Mr Valls, Mr Rivera, is also part of the Sánchez plan and that is why he has facilitated a non-independence government in the Barcelona City Council. [[Mr Rivera Díez's denials]] Yeah, yeah. I already knew you guys thought the same thing I did. [[Laughter]] But there have also been founders of the party that you launched, Mr Rivera, who have also abandoned their formation, and you have sent them more or less just as you sent me the other day when you said you were not going to pick up the phone and not meet me. He has come to say something like: those who don't think like me who set up another game. I don't know if they're going to play another game, Mr. Rivera, but Citizens today looks like The Great Escape. [[Applauds]] Mr. Rivera, you've come here to teach us centrism lessons. You say he's a centrist, a liberal. Man, a liberal and a centrist does not block Spain; a liberal and a centrist not only operates an intermittent, that of the right. You, Mr. Rivera, have left that red and blue, as Mr. Roldán said, to embrace clearly Mr. Abascal's green. [[Applauds]] Mr Rivera, you have put aside the idea of democratic regeneration, fighting corruption, and all you have done is support corruption in the city of Madrid, Murcia and Castile and León of a People's Party that is full of systemic corruption in those territories, as you well know. [[Applauds]] Mr Rivera, you have left behind and said goodbye to the struggle against peripheral nationalism, and you have embraced what one of the founding parents of your party, Mr Francesc de Carreras, said, not only that you have become a sort of capricious teenager, but that you have embraced Spanish nationalism, which is actually what you hear every time you go up to the rostrum. Mr Rivera, you have abandoned and foiled any internal debate. You're getting more and more alone in your ivory tower, Mr. Rivera. And finally, you lead the opposition, Mr. Rivera? If it is the third political force in this country, if when you had the opportunity to lead the opposition, winning the elections in Catalonia, you fled and left the constitutionalists without any kind of defense in the Parliament of Catalonia. [[Applauds]] But do you come here to give lessons from what, to lead what opposition? To lead what opposition if Mrs Arrimadas did not present herself to the investiture debate in the Catalan Parliament? If you have done what you have done has been to flee Catalonia and leave constitutionalism without any reference in Citizens. [[Applauds]] For you all are fascists; all are fascists. The people of March 8, the feminists, fascists ; those who do not commune with you in the manifestation of gay pride, fascists. [[rumors]] [[Rumors]] Yeah, yeah, of course I do. The Socialist Party, fascist. Of course I do, Mr. Rivera. Now, that's right, we're not going to put a label, following Mrs. Arrimadas' phrase, to the ultra-right because they don't like to put labels. [[Applauds]] They're all fascists except the far right. I, Mr Rivera, do not like to put labels, but this time I do not resist. Its label is reversible, like jackets. [[Laughter]] Honestly, Mr. Rivera, I don't understand you. I think you're struggling with reality. I don't know what your speeches are about, what the health cord you put on the Socialist Party is about, honestly I tell you. According to the data, 57% of the royal decree-laws passed during the twelve months of the previous legislature were supported by their parliamentary group. You and I agreed in 2016 on two hundred measures, which have also been part of the investiture speech I addressed to the House this morning. We have talked about an educational pact, an ecological transition, civil rights, dignified death, euthanasia, how to solve many of the devastating issues facing many people in our country. All these questions remain in force, Mr Rivera, and none of them justify at least your abstaining? I do not ask you to vote in favour, but at least to abstain from a government in Spain that you can oppose. I don't ask you any more, Mr. Rivera. Besides, you're paying an unbearable cost. [[Rumors]] Yes, yes, you are paying an unbearable cost, Mr. Rivera. In Murcia you are negotiating with the far right and there you are questioning the rights of the minority and the diversity of the LGBTI collective. [[Applauds]] You in Andalusia have agreed with the far right and there you are making blacklists with the workers who are fighting gender-based violence. You are negotiating with the far right and we need to hear some leaders of the far right in Madrid say that we must review and question those people who are educating in diversity, and therefore in respect, minorities in public schools in Madrid. Mr. Rivera, when a leader starts to stay alone like you should wonder why. If you were a liberal party, Mr Rivera, we would not be facing a blocking situation right now. I'll tell you in a very simple way. How can you eat that you say you are defending the rights of the LGTBI collective when you agree with the ultra-right that questions those rights of the LGTBI collective? How can you say that you are a feminist and then rush to try to put a liberalism label on feminism? How can you say that you want to fight nationalism and independence when you want to be invested as President of the Government by those independence forces you say you want to fight, Mr Rivera? How do you eat that, Mr. Rivera? How do you eat that? [[Applauds]] The only thing I tell you, Mr. Rivera, beyond all this, because then you go into disquisitions: that if the tax sablazo... Mr Rivera, EUR 26 billion. You say I'm going to raise taxes 26 billion euros! Read at least the papers and find out. Mr Roldán is no longer here, but let Mr Marcos de Quinto tell you exactly that it is not EUR 26 billion, Your Honor, that we are talking about the economic cycle and the public revenue that will result from the increase in tax collection. Talk to yourself with property and find out. And if you do both, what I'm asking you to do, please, is that you don't lie to the Spaniards and stop missing the truth once and for all. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, I will certainly be willing to talk to you about the family law, I will be willing to talk to you about the self-employed and I will be willing to talk to you about all the issues. By the way, please also inform yourself, Mr Rivera, because in Portugal it was the Constitutional Court that brought down that subordinated maternity law. [[Denials of Mr. Rivera Díaz]] Yes, Mr. Rivera. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Anyway, Mr. Rivera, that's the least. The important thing is that the legislature goes on, the important thing is that Spain has a government, the important thing is that there is opposition, the important thing is that we can put in place many of the legislative initiatives that I am convinced that we can all draw for the benefit of the social majority. Therefore, Mr Rivera, I ask you to abstain from government for the sake of Spain and your group next Thursday. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the stand, and of the Government in office]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u32	Mr. Sánchez, if there's a conviction from the EREs, will you resign? Yes or no? [[Protests]] It's the third time I've asked you the question and you don't answer it. You know why not? Because Mr. Sánchez has a stick to measure for the morale of others and another for his, because in the Sanchez plan there is no word to resign. The Sanchez plan is to perpetuate itself in power. Mr Sánchez is not going to resign for the ERE, nor is he going to cause Marlaska to resign for his shameful words, nor is he going to cease Mrs Calvo as a sectarian. No, because the Sanchez plan is precisely about to carry this out. Mr Sánchez, you said that Mr Torra was the Le Pen of Spanish politics. Do you agree the Barcelona Diputation with the Le Pen of Spanish politics? [[Applauds]] Mr. Sánchez, Mr. Otegi offers with the spokesman of his party. In Navarre you rule with Batasuna. That's extremism. You're the only ones. You are the first president of Spanish democracy, the first, to legitimize Batasuna to compromise. The first one. No other president did it before. You're the first. You don't have scruples, you can agree with Batasuna, with Torra in the Barcelona Diputation, call him Le Pen, whatever it takes. So, Mr Sánchez, the only one who governs in a government such as that of the Barcelona Parliament and in other municipal governments with the extreme right - that's how they catalog it in Europe, isn't it, Mr Borrell? - is you. The only one who rules with the far right is you, Mr. Sanchez. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, what would have an unbearable cost to Spain is for you to implement the Sánchez plan without opposition. That would certainly have an unbearable cost to Spain. But he's not going to fall for that chollo, we got him: you have a plan, you have a band, you've been running it... [[Laughter]] The band doesn't make fun of me, it scares me. I see Otegi, Rufián, Puigdemont, Torra, and I say, prepare yourselves, the one who will bind these gentlemen. It's very funny to you, you're negotiating here, in the next room. Here we are having a debate, but in the next room they are negotiating pardons, they are negotiating how to move the separatist couptists to Catalan prisons or not, they are negotiating how to raise taxes. While Sanchez here is making hysterical, here next door they're negotiating. Let all Spaniards know. He's set up a theater, but they're negotiating in the next room so that next Thursday Mr. Sánchez can be president with the Sanchez plan and keep perpetuating himself in power. But you're going to have opposition, Mr. Sanchez, and you're going to lead the Citizens. I cannot count all the seats, but you speak of Citizens and a few months ago there were thirty-two Members here. How many are there, Mr. Sanchez? Fifty-seven deputies. You respect the 4.3 million citizens' voters. A little more respect. [[Applauds]] By the way, you took the Francomodin out of the speech. Every time he's a little in trouble, he takes out Franco's wild card. I would tell you, as Alfonso Guerra told you, to stop boxing with the dictator's bones. That was told by Alfonso Guerra to you, who must be a fascist also because he opposed his policy. But I'll tell you one thing. If you were willing to rectify and bring here a law of consensus, as the Valle de los Fallos report says, so that Parliament, by consensus, would take a dictator from Spain from where he is paid tribute, I would agree, because I do not believe that it is normal in a democratic country to pay tribute to dictators. But I tell you one thing, neither to dead dictators nor to living dictators, because here they pay tribute to Maduro as well as his government partners. [[Applauds]] So let's see if you're so brave with the living dictators. By the way, no tributes to terrorists. I don't want tributes to Franco or Maduro or to Etraras, and in this country you pay homages to Etraras, and you allow it because you don't do anything, because your PNV partners in the Basque Country... [[Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejón, candidate for the Presidency of the Government: What shame; what shame; what shame]] It's a shame to see those tributes, Mr. Sanchez. Do you not feel ashamed to allow, as President of the Government, to pay tribute to Josu Ternera? My soul hurts, Mr. Sanchez. [[Applauds]] My soul hurts. So if you are willing to agree that there are no tributes to Franco or Maduro or to the ages, let's do it, but then you have to change your policy, the policy you have done with the Basque nationalists, the one you are doing in Navarre with the nationalists and Batasuna. Are you going to vote in favour of the law that you have presented Citizens to prohibit tributes to terrorists? Yes or no? That's the cotton test. Are you going to vote for it or are you going to do what you've done so far, which is look away? Because then I will believe that you want historical memory, because historical memory cannot have a gap with the victims of terrorism, historical memory cannot forgive that there are tributes to terrorists. [[Applauds]] And speaking of privileges and covenants, some of his companions said: there is no concession to the nationalists. No, for now they want to give the judges, and more money for TV3, more embassies and look away. But I tell you one thing, you did one thing with a person who represents just what the nationalists need. You and Mrs Delgado, with your support and command, purged a state lawyer for defending that there was violence on October 1, and proved and proved it, and defended the crimes that are now being seen in court proceedings. Do you know what he did to Mr. Edmundo Bal? He purged it. You know why? Because he didn't have the PSOE card; he had the Spanish card, so he purged him. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, speaking to Mr Bal Francés, applause.]] Yes, because the right and the difficult thing is what Edmundo Bal did; the easy thing is what Mrs Delgado did - and the shameful thing, by the way - which is to purge the one who defines Spanish democracy. Do you know where the brave end up? In the ranks of Citizens, there they end. [[Let's give it up.-Laughter.]] Yeah, yeah. So, Mr. Sánchez, we're not going to support your plan, we're not going to wave to your band, we're not going to legitimize what you're doing with those who want to liquidate Spain. It is our historic responsibility to oppose the Sanchez plan, to monitor it and to dismantle it. That parliamentary group there, of brave women and men, will honor the 4,300,000 voters. [[pointing to the bench of your parliamentary group]] Because, Mr Sánchez, the 4,300,000 voters voted Citizens for our electoral programme, for our proposals, but above all they voted for us to keep an eye on you, to control you and not to allow what you are doing, which is the Sanchez plan. [[Laughter from Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejon, candidate for the Presidency of the Government]] Yeah, yeah, laugh at citizens' voters who are getting more and more, laugh at them. [[Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejon, candidate for the Presidency of the Government: We shall see, we shall see]] But I promise you, Mr. Sánchez, that we will watch over you, and the citizens' voters that we will keep our word, that we will defend them, that we will watch over the Sanchez plan and its band, and that we will dismantle it. [[Laughter]] And that instead of a decade of rule, let's hope this lasts as little as possible, because it'll be good for Spain, even if it's bad for Sanchez and his band. So, Mr Sánchez, if you wanted a blank check from the opposition, on the part of Citizens you are not going to have it; you are going to have close surveillance, you are going to have democratic firmness, you are going to have conviction in the equality and freedom of the Spaniards. I am very proud to have defended what I have defended in the electoral campaign and continue to do so today from this rostrum. You can't say the same thing and some of those who are here either. And I'll tell you something else, Mr. Sánchez, you can set up this theater here, but when you form your government, you will form it here in the panic room, when you come to an agreement by sharing chairs with Podemos, the dance of the chairs, when you set in motion that government, from the minute one will have opposition, a firm opposition with you and with your project, the Sanchez plan, but loyal to the Spaniards. Mr Sánchez, this is the National Chamber, and since you often do not respect the voters of others, you will respect mine. Do you know how you're gonna respect citizens' voters? With a no, with one on the Sanchez plan, with a no to the band that accompanies him, and with a yes to Spain. [[Rumors]] So, Mr Sánchez, from the minute that there is government, there is firm opposition with your government, loyal with the Spaniards. When you want to call us to talk about what matters to Spain, when you want to talk about state pacts, like the Education that destroyed, we will talk; but when you want to legitimize a government with Podemos and the nationalists you will have us in front of; not because I say it, but because it is what my voters have chosen, and they knew it before and after going to vote. As some of your voters would say, not with Rivera, but above all not with 4,300,000 voters who want us to watch over you, to dismantle your plan and to have Spain have an alternative government within four years or less; a liberal alternative, a centrist alternative, a constitutionalist alternative. Mr. Sanchez, you're devoting yourself to insulting. I'm not going down to mud like you, because if I go down to mud... [[Protests]] Well, don't get nervous. If you go down to the mud, I will not go down with you because you dominate the mud much more, but I do tell you that in a democratic House at least the parliamentary groups are respected, and you have to know that there is opposition. You don't want opposition and we're going to do it. So tomorrow we will vote yes to Spain and not to the Sanchez plan and the Sanchez band. Thank you. [[Prolonged applause of the Members of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u33	Thank you, Mr. Rivera. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Well... [[Laughter]] It's clear to us, Mr. Rivera. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] It has become clear to us and, finally, I have understood the message. [[Laughs.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u35	Thank you, Mr. Candidate. Mr Rivera, you have the floor. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u36	I'm sure you treat the voters of Republican Left and Bildu as well as the voters of Citizens; I'm convinced of your partners. Mr. Sanchez, I hope it's clear to you. You've already said that, and I'm very glad, but you had it clear a long time ago. You've been running a plan for over a year, since you set up the motion of censure. [[Several Members: Oh!-Laughter]] If you don't like to hear it, put on plugs; it's democracy. [[Protests]] Yeah, yeah, and they're gonna have to listen to us and we're gonna lead the opposition. [[One Member: Every day.- Mrs. Arrimadas García: Every day]] They're going to listen to us every day and they're going to listen to us with 4,300,000 citizens behind us, and more and more people, so, patience. [[applause.-A honourable Member: You have nothing left!]] [[Applauds]] Mr. Sánchez, to all those who are not PSOE militants we want to represent them, because being a PSOE militant is fine, but there are many Spaniards who are not sectarians and do not carry the card in their mouths. [[rumors]] Here the only card that grants you rights and freedoms is that of being a Spanish citizen. I am not going to defend in this rostrum only the voters of Citizens, I am going to defend all the Spaniards who oppose the Sánchez plan; all the Spaniards who want a democratic, decent, clean alternative. You have not answered me about EREs because you cannot answer, because you are the EREs, those of the training courses, those who give lessons to others and do not respect voters, but steal their money. That's you, so you're going to have a democratic regeneration opposition here, and when there's a ruling on the ERW, we'll be the first to ask you to resign. Mr. Sanchez, if you thought this was going to be a walk, it's clear. Here came Citizens, with 4,300,000 voters - yes, yes - and they will listen to us every day. [[protests]] And when Marlaska casts us out of pride, we will go again; and when Calvo casts us, we will go again; and when the nationalists of Rentía or Alsasua cast us out, we will go again. We are not going to cut ourselves, because, Mr Sánchez, the right side of history at this time is not to be with Bildu or Puigdemont or Torra; it is to be with the Constitution and with democracy. [[rumors]] [[rumors]] [[applause]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u37	Thank you, Mr. Rivera. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u38	Well, Mr. Rivera, I just want to remind you that of those 4 million voters who trusted you last April 28 70% are saying in all surveys that you have to facilitate the formation of a government. [[Rumors]] Of course, you are saying that 70%, so the only thing I say to you is that you do not declare yourself in rebellion before your voters, that you facilitate the formation of a government; that you facilitate with your abstention the formation of a government, and even if you do not want, Mr Rivera, that the investiture of the president of the government depends on forces that you consider to be antagonistic to yourself, what you will have to do is to abstain, because being a Democrat, Mr Rivera, is to accept the election result, and if there is no alternative to government, you do not say what you are saying to those four million long voters who trusted you, and also to all the citizens who voted last April 28th, it is that they have to be called back to the polls on November 10th. It will be your responsibility, Mr. Rivera. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u39	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Turrion has the floor in the first place. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in Communal, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u40	Thank you, Madam President. I would like, Your Honor, for my first words this afternoon to be in memory of the three women killed during the last week. The presidential candidate has said that macho violence is a scourge. It is more than a scourge, it is structural violence and can be combated and avoided with properly financed public policies. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, I listened very carefully this morning to your speech. It's been a long speech. I'm running out of time to analyze all the elements you've developed this morning, but I'd like to make a few comments. The first, of historical order. You said: in 1975 we left the dictatorship. No, Mr Sánchez, in 1975 a dictator died in bed, and I would ask you, out of respect for the dignity of anti-fascists and democrats who also in 1975, many of them socialist militants, played freedom and played life fighting against dictatorship, to rectify those words this morning. [[Applauds]] The first important proposal you made this morning has drawn my attention. You have proposed a state pact, but you have not proposed a state pact to shield the updating of pensions or to guarantee the dignity of wages, nor have you proposed a state pact to shield certain constitutional rights contained in the Magna Charter. It has proposed a state pact to the People's Party to reform article 99 of the Spanish Constitution. And this has drawn much attention to me, because you want to reform Article 99 of the Spanish Constitution so that a political force with less than 30% of the votes can form government without agreeing with anyone. It is a legitimate proposal, but it draws my attention to the fact that it was the first proposal you have defined as a proposal for a state pact in your investiture intervention this morning. It is a legitimate proposal, but it goes against the spirit of the Spanish Constitution of 78, which enshrines that our political system is parliamentary, not presidential, and that means that in order to form government we must seek agreement to obtain sufficient majority, in this case absolute majority, or at least more yes than no, in the second vote. To be a constitutionalist, it is striking that you propose a reform of the Constitution no less than the People's Party that erases from a pen the design of the political system that establishes our Magna Charter. The second element that draws attention to this proposal is that it goes against what the Spanish have voted for. When the Spaniards want a single party government they give an absolute majority - they did it with Mr Felipe González, they did it with Mr José María Aznar - but if the citizens vote for different political forces, what the Spanish citizens are saying is that they do not want a single party government, they want us to agree. I do not know whether it is wise to put forward a state pact to reform the Constitution as a sort of trifle to prevent us from doing the work that the citizens have entrusted to us, which is to agree. I assure you one thing: if the citizens wanted their party to rule alone, they would have given it an absolute majority, and it seems unwise to want to reform the Constitution to change the will of the Spanish citizens. [[Applauds]] The third element that draws my attention to your proposal is that it reveals something very obvious. If you wanted to change the Constitution so that with 28% of the votes you could form a single party government, that would reveal that you do not want or would not want to make a government agreement with us, that if you are negotiating a comprehensive government agreement with us it is because there is no other remedy. Dissimulate it a bit, because, as a negotiating strategy, when we have not reached an agreement, it does not seem the wisest or the most advisable. [[laughs]] At the same time, it draws my attention to the fact that, when we have not yet negotiated a government agreement, you insist on asking the People's Party and Citizens to abstain. I ask you not to ask VOX too when Mr Abascal intervenes. [[Applauds]] Many of us have felt as Nanni Moretti felt in a memorable sequence of Aprile - a great film - in which he saw Massimo d'Alema arguing with Silvio Berlusconi, and Nanni Moretti said to him: 'D'Alema, say something left'. You say something left to the People's Party and Citizens, Mr Sánchez; your voters and ours would be grateful. A year ago we made a motion of censure. You had eighty-four Members and we supported you in that motion of censure in exchange for nothing. You will recognize me that we worked even more than your party so that that motion of censure, on which you had repeated to us until the satiety - you too - that it was impossible to get the numbers, would come forward. And we did it in exchange for nothing. It was our experience from government to Portuguese: a minority government with eighty-four deputies and parliamentary agreements with us. You will acknowledge that this experience from government to Portuguese has failed. And it failed, basically, for a reason, because we had an unstable government unable to tie up enough majorities to carry out the General Budgets of the State, and therefore, elections had to be called. Therefore, that experience has shown that it did not work and I think it is legitimate that we try to build a more stable majority and that this country has a stable government, with a serious parliamentary base, because the problem is that, when you insist on asking the People's Party and Citizens to abstain, there are many people who might think that what you want is not a stable left government, but that what you want is to be president at all costs and it doesn't matter if the abstentions come from the People's Party, Citizens, Republican Left, Bildu or any political formation. A minimal coherence in the programs and alliances is necessary when you go to an investiture session, because, if you insist on asking for the support of the right, there are many people who will think that the priority for you is power, and not applying a left-wing program, for which you would have to agree with left-wing political formations. [[Applauds]] A year ago, in that motion of censure, Mr Sánchez, I told you something that you surely remember. I said: Let's win the right-wing elections together in the next elections. And we did it together. You had a very good result, 7.4 million votes, 28%, but those are less votes than those obtained by the People's Party, Citizens and VOX; those are less seats than those obtained by the People's Party, Citizens and VOX. Only with the 3.7 million votes we have obtained, 14%, half of what you have obtained, can we add a broader parliamentary force than the three right-wing forces together. And from the minute one after the general elections we proposed to them to join forces to be a coalition government that would face the future of our country from stability, from respect and with a political project. From there I think you made excuses. The first excuse: We would make a coalition government with you immediately but we did not add an absolute majority. We said to them: Let us try, let us try to present a coalition government agreement in this House and, if we fail to get the majority forward, we rethink our position. You never made that argument again. You told us: Your program is too radical. And we said to them, "All right, let's moderate our program and let's focus on the fact that the articles of the 1978 Spanish Constitution that protect social rights are guaranteed from public policies and can be developed. We ask for nothing in the programmatic negotiation that we are conducting with you to make a different coalition government to implement the Spanish Constitution. The third excuse you made was Catalonia. By the way, you have drawn attention to the fact that, speaking so much about Venezuela and China this morning, you have not made a single mention of a situation that is serious in Spain, and that is the conflict that is going on in Catalonia. You have said something which I do not think you are thinking about and which you are also going to rectify. He said: Independenceists do not have enough support to claim what they are claiming. I believe that the independenceists have received this statement with excitement and that, if you think twice, you will rectify what you said this morning. Well, we told him about this: There are no red lines on our part, we take his leadership because they have had more votes than we in Spain and this time they have had more votes also in Catalonia. The fourth excuse you put forward was a veto on me, something unprecedented in the Spanish political culture and in the democratic political culture: to veto the candidate of the political force with which he aspires to reach a government agreement. I don't think I'm lying if I say our answer surprised you, and from there you've run out of excuses. I'll make it very clear to you, no flowers, no nuances. I will explain to you why we want to be part of a coalition government with you. We want to be part of a coalition government with you so that in this country there will be tax justice and that we will come a little closer to the European Union's tax justice standards. We want to be part of a coalition government with you so that in this country there is a limit to job insecurity and decent wages in this country. We want to be part of a coalition government with you so that there will finally be an ecological transition. We want to be part of a coalition government with you so that there are guarantees that when this government sits with the big electrics we can ensure that the citizens of this country will be reduced by the bill of light. We want to make a coalition government with you to ensure that there is a government willing to empower the municipalities to intervene in the rental market and that abusive rents in Spain can be lowered. We want to be part of a coalition government with you so that there are public children's schools from 0 to 3 years free of charge. We want a coalition government with you so that there is a law of euthanasia at once, and I remind you that we proposed a law of euthanasia and you did not support it in this House at the time. [[Applauds]] We want to govern in coalition with you so that there is finally a law of LGBTI equality. And that's why we don't ask for anything that doesn't suit us. We renounce from the outset to share with you the responsibility in what you call ministries of State, and we would have the whole right of the world to demand our participation in the proportion that the votes give us, but we have to ask you that we need competences and responsibilities of government commensurate with our electoral weight to be part of a government with you and to reach an investment agreement. I have to tell you very clearly: you respect our 3.7 million voters and do not propose to be a mere decoration in your Government, because we cannot accept it. [[Applauds]] Mr. Sanchez, all we ask is respect and reciprocity. I don't think the Spaniards would understand that you would provoke an electoral advance, even though the polls you quote from this rostrum so many times tell you that you would have a great result. I don't think the Spaniards would understand that excessive self-confidence and arrogance would make this country lose its historic opportunity to have a left-wing coalition government. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in Communal, stood up.-Applause from Mr Iglesias Turrión addressed to his parliamentary group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Churches. Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, good afternoon. It is the first time that I have taken the floor in this rostrum, and I wanted to begin by thanking all the women and men who have opened the way for us; the women who have raised an uncomfortable mirror to make us aware of our privileges; the young people who have gone out on the street to defend the future of our planet; and our older people who have earned us rights that some now want to take away from us. We're proud of all these people, they're part of our DNA. Let us never forget who we are and where we come from. [[Applauds]] And we come from far away, but also from a close experience of government in the City Hall of Barcelona, and there we show that it can, that it can be ruled in another way, and we also learned three basic rules that here today have shone for its absence: the first, sense of the historical moment and therefore of opportunity; the second, sense of responsibility and therefore of the management of the contradictions themselves; the third, sense of institutionality and, therefore, that one presents himself to the elections with a party but then must govern for all and for all, and that means pacting with the difference as well. From the humble experience of that Government of the capital of Catalonia, the second city of the State, allow me to thank Paul Iglesias for having lived up to all these principles. [[Applauds]] Thank you, Pablo, for your gesture of resignation. There are gestures that demonstrate the political and human height of a leader: we are proud of you. 'Do not fail us', with this cry thousands of people greeted Zapatero's victory fifteen years ago. Today, as yesterday, we have a historic challenge to heal the social and territorial wounds that have bequeathed us right-wing. That is why, Mr Sánchez, I ask you not to evade your responsibilities. Mr. Sanchez, what are you afraid of? Are you afraid of those you reported in Salvados when you told us that you were being pressured not to bargain with us and to bargain with the right? I remember how you at a certain point did not be afraid of the factual powers and how you even dared to talk about plurinationality. Listen more to the PSOE's militancy. Do you remember what they said in Ferraz? 'Yes, you can.' Of course you can, be brave. It's up to you if you can, it's up to you. And that's why you have to stop making excuses. One was Catalonia. It is true that we have differences, but one must learn to cooperate with differences when one wants to govern with difference. You accuse us of condescending independence, but, don't get confused, it's not condescending. When we defend the rights of our political opponents, that does not mean that we are in agreement with their political project or that we are in agreement with their mistakes. We agree with what the UN says, we agree with what the majority of legal guarantors in this country say, with what the European judges say. We agree with what the vast majority of the Catalan population and part of the Spanish population think when they saw what was happening in Catalonia on October 1. Shame felt as they watched helpless people beat up just because they wanted to vote. And we are not that far away; we do not forget when you blamed the Vice-President of the People's Party Government. [[Applauds]] We do not forget when Mr.Iceta and other leaders criticized the prison of Catalan social and political leaders. Nor do we forget when the mayors of his party in Catalonia strongly opposed the application of a 155 that even Fraga Iribarne would not have dreamed of when he presented his amendment in the constituent debate. The truth is that today, as has been said, the great absence, the Freudian absence, has been Catalonia. You stand as president today, and from the respect we have for the acronyms you represent, the party of Indalecio Prieto, of so many anti-fascist and Republican fighters, let me remind you of three realities and challenge you. First, that without the vows of Catalonia today you would not be, would be the trio of Columbus, and we have already seen today what the trio of Columbus is. Well, we're still short on VOX, which, after PP and Citizen interventions, I don't know what they have to do, but they still have to pull the guns. Two, just as you can't rule Catalonia with four topics about Spain, you can't rule Spain without understanding Catalonia. Three, that means that when we understand each other, when the Spanish progressive forces understand each other with the Catalanist forces, Spain advances, Spain advances in rights and democracy. It has always been so throughout history, it was so in the San Sebastian pact of our grandparents and grandmothers who gave birth to the Republic. Lluís Companies said: Catalonia cannot move forward if Spain does not move forward - a lesson for the independenceists - but it also said: Spain cannot move forward without Catalonia. We need a freely agreed framework of plurinational coexistence, and that should sound like it, because that is what the Catalan socialists defended during the Republic, during Francoism, is what Anselmo Carretero defended in the Transition or Maragall from the Generalitat; and that is what was broken by the imposition of a statute that no one had voted for, and that is what was broken when thousands of people went out to the street and the only answer they received was no to everything, misunderstanding; and that is why we are as we are, when half of the Catalans want to leave Spain, and to a large extent that is because they believe that there is no alternative Spain beyond the one that came to the cry of 'A' for them!'. The challenge - and I finish - our challenge is precisely yours and ours. Our challenge is to convince them that this is not the case, that there is the possibility of a new Spain leaving behind old Spain, eaten by hatred and revenge. Do we have any alternative plans to the 155th threat? There's been a lot of talk here about the plan and the bands, but we don't have any plans. Will you be able to return politics to congresses, get out of prisons and the courts? Will Marchena remain the Minister of Territorial Crisis? We believe that there is an alternative, but it obviously goes through dialogue. And I finish precisely with Machado. Machado said that in dialogue it is very important to ask and then listen. Catalonia deserves a Spanish government to ask and listen to it; it does not deserve a wall, it does not deserve a government that is threatening all the time. We need a government that punishes less and convinces more. Let's talk more, let's listen more. If we knew each other more, maybe we'd all respect each other a little more. We have a chance; let's not lose it. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations We can-in Commu PomGalicia in common, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u43	Thank you, Mr. Asens. I have the floor for the same parliamentary group, Mr Garzón Espinosa.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, on April 28 many people voted with hope but also, why not say it, with fear, with fear that a dark Spain, a reactionary Spain, a Spain that is the echo of Spain menendezpelayista, homogeneous and intolerant could triumph. The results have shown something clear: there is an open opportunity to form a progressive government, why? Because more than ten years have passed since the beginning of the crisis, a crisis that has been a real scam, a transfer of public funds to private hands, an unusual looting at different levels that has increased exploitation, precariousness and inequality at many levels. And this is an opportunity to correct it; we have an opportunity, Mr Sánchez, to correct it. That is why your appeals to the right, to the very reactionary right, which you have well defined at certain times, are disappointing, so that they can provide you with the Government, because it is much better to go the other way, the way of that progressive Government. You have made very interesting and, in our opinion, correct descriptions in your speech. He has described depressing work situations, work situations that prevent a life project, but he has forgotten to explain how that is resolved. He has forgotten to explain, for example, the need to go to the program to understand that repealing the 2012 People's Party labor reform is a necessary condition; it is not enough, but it is necessary. It is necessary to understand this, because the labor reform increased exploitation, precariousness, affected wages, caused working families to receive less and less of the pie, of the wealth generated by this country. Measures must also be taken to improve the living conditions of working families. Some have been quoted here by comrade Pablo Iglesias, you yourself have said some that sound interesting, such as intervening in the housing market, lowering the bill of light, raising wages. We raised wages with the SMI, and the right-wing and right-wing institutions told us that they were supposed to be a catastrophe: they have been shown to be ideological and reactionary institutions in many ways. A tax reform has also been cited. There are many reasons why we want a progressive Government at this time. And you have also said it very well: there are certain challenges, and we can share the description of some of those challenges, such as the ecological challenge, the destruction of the planet, climate change, the loss of biodiversity, or the challenge of patriarchy, because there is still a long way to go before it is eradicated and there are many policies that we have to do in that direction, or the territorial challenge, about which our colleague Jaume Asens has just rightly spoken. But all these challenges also need a way, not just to describe them, Mr. Sánchez, and the other way you've forgotten is no longer politics, it's alliances. You have 123 seats: they are not enough to respond to the challenges we are having, and we are telling you that we are potential and necessary allies to respond to these challenges, challenges that have to do with what I told you at first to confront that reactionary Spain, that MenendezPelayista Spain, that part of understanding that there is another possible Spain, another Spain that has deep roots in the history of our country, republican roots, republican-federal roots, roots of the workers' movement, a diverse Spain that understands that our country is not that it wants to be plurinational, that it is plurinational and that, therefore, it has to adapt the institutions to ensure coexistence, and that it is to take the reverse path to those from the reactionary right who use hatred, hyperboles, incendiary discourses to confront some Spaniards against others. That is why you do not understand what you have done here today by asking for support from the PP and Citizens, support in the form of abstention, Mr Sánchez. If you yourself left this Congress in 2016 to not give a abstention that was for you, well at that moment understood, a support! Therefore, you are in need of compromise with the left; but not you, but this country, the people who went to vote on April 28. And I believe that you have made important mistakes at that time, not only for the excuses you have been making to avoid this path and this path, but also because the first thing you have to do is respect potential allies. I believe that the decision to veto the Secretary General of Podemos, a force other than mine, to which I represent, which is United Left, has been a mistake. However, I believe that Pablo Iglesias has been able to continue to facilitate an agreement leading to a progressive government. [[Applauds]] I believe that we have an opportunity, which is not the opportunity for you to be president or that of the ministers or ministers that we are going to put; it is the opportunity to start a different path from that described by reactionary Spain, it is the opportunity to give concrete expression to the hopes and hopes of many left-wing and progressive people who voted on 28 April. Therefore, I ask you on behalf of the United Left not to frustrate these hopes, not to be carried away by the temptation that perhaps someone suggests to you to repeat the elections to cast the dice and that another result be better. There's no better result. Spain is plural at very different levels: at the national level, but also at the political and ideological level. This diverse and heterogeneous Parliament is the reflection of a diverse and heterogeneous Spain. Let's not look the other way. There is no need to amend Article 99, and what is needed is a new political culture of understanding with which you think differently. That is the deepest message of democracy and republican values. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in Communal, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Garzón. Mrs Díaz Pérez has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u46	Madam President, candidate, despite what you did not say this morning, I remain firmly confident in the hope of a change in our country, and I remain confident because - look - we are in a position to make history, without subterfuges, you and we, in coalition. Sometimes the story certainly condenses in hours, sometimes even in a few small moments - I think we are in that - and fills with responsibility those who star in it. Let's live up to the circumstances. We owe it to the people who have struggled to get here both in the past and in the present. I can remember those women who got for all of us the vote in the Second Republic or, for example, those millions and millions of people who, despite living the worst of Spanish history, never lost hope, those who occupied the squares a 15-M and since then Spain has never been the same again, or the women that on March 8th we gave a lesson to the world. [[applause]] All of them - I think not to exaggerate - waited for a moment like this. We owe you, Mr. candidate, this present, and this is a courageous and progressive coalition government. Mr. Sanchez, let's imagine a country that complies with your Constitution. I'm just going to give you one fact - you've given many - because I don't have time. According to the Social Security affiliation data, 51% of your affiliations are temporary and precarious contracts; for example, part-time, people who are not able to reach the end of the month, are malvious, Mr President. My group believes that this is not just an emergency, but a social emergency, and we sincerely believe that the latest reforms need to be urgently modified, just as we believe that we need to act in renting, in housing and against macho violence, as well as in the price of light, in health, in dependence and in education, and just as we believe that we need to give hope to our people. [[applause]] These are our challenges, Mr. Candidate. But we are Galicians and Galicians and I have to speak also on behalf of Galicia in common. Mr. candidate, we believe that we must also address Galicia's challenges, the Galician agenda; you know it well. We believe that the time has come to talk about fair financing, infrastructure for Galicia, rail connections, port connections, the unreplaceable transfer of the AP-9 in my country, the sanitation of the Galician estuary, the dairy sector, the shipbuilding sector, and also our fisheries. They are sectors for Galicia, Mr. candidate, strategic - and also - we are about to get it - the return of the Peace of Meirás. Ladies and gentlemen, on 28 April the people gave us a mandate. He has told us to dialogue, to build a future together. We bring here today from Galicia in common the desire to be able to believe that what citizenship says outside, what society says and desires outside is possible. We have come here to say that it is possible to change people's lives. Mr. Candidate, let's do it. They're waiting for us. Let us walk resolutely with hope, because, Mr. candidate, people believe that we can. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in Communal, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u47	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Iglesias, I make some preliminary considerations to the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations. Ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken in my speech about various state pacts. I have talked about ecological transition, I have talked about the state pact against gender violence, I have talked about educational reform, I have also talked about a new law of universities, I have talked about a tax reform, the reconstruction of the welfare state, I have talked about dependency, health... In short, I have spoken of everything that can unite us with two left-wing political forces such as yours and mine, which honestly the 123 seats that are represented here materialize. It is true that I spoke in my first speech about the need to reform article 99 of the Constitution and I think it is quite clear why, given the reasons I gave in my first speech. For example, on 15 June we were all aware that we were convened in each of the city halls of this country to elect the municipal government and it is known that on 15 June the municipal government is constituted with a formula that can be different and that is not antagonistic to the understanding, dialogue, negotiation and agreement that may exist between different formations. This is the case in municipal governments, as you know well, for example, if there is no absolute majority, the one that governs is the most voted list. This was the case at Barcelona City Hall thanks to a gesture of generosity from an old ally of Mr Rivera, Mr Valls. So that he did not govern who he understood was not positive for the city of Barcelona, considering Mrs. Ada Colau in relation to the candidate of Republican Esquerra, Ernest Maragall, gave those votes to Ada Colau to be mayor of Barcelona and, by the way, today is ruling in coalition with the Party of Catalan Socialists. One point, Mr Asens: there are many discrepancies in your intervention as to how to resolve the crisis in Catalonia. That is evident and not only because of the things he has been saying these last few days in various media, such as that there was no need to renounce the right to self-determination in Catalonia. He knows that this has been one of the main problems in the dialogue, negotiation and agreement between the Party of Catalan Socialists and the party of Mrs Ada Colau. What has been done? What has been done is to remove this territorial discrepancy and manage municipal policies. That can be done at Barcelona City Hall, of course, but can it be done at state level? I ask you: Can it be done at state level? Then I'll answer that question. What I want to say to you with this is that I am not denying, I am not denying dialogue and agreement with the force of the United Nations We can, on the contrary. When I am raising the reform of the Constitution in its article 99, what I am saying is that the Spaniards have been called to the polls once last April 28. By the way, they were called back to the polls on 26 May and said in a much more unappealable way that the Socialist Party was the first political force, winning in most provinces and even in places where the Socialist Party had not won for decades, such as the Murcia Region or the Madrid Community. If these governments are not in the hands of the left today, it is precisely for the three right, because the People's Party and Citizens have agreed with the ultra-right. Therefore, what I want to say to you with this, ladies and gentlemen, is that I do not give up my understanding of the UN We can or with other parliamentary forces to take forward a government. But if we don't come to an agreement, what is the solution? If there is no alternative majority because there is no majority, what is the solution? Install the blockade and call the elections on November 10th? That will not be the responsibility of one parliamentary group or another, it will be the responsibility of the 350 Members in this House. [[Several Members: No!-Protests]] Of course I do, ladies and gentlemen, of course I will - now I will also answer this question -. It is clear that if one looks at the Basque Country, at its status of autonomy, if one looks at the Statute of Autonomy of the Principality of Asturias, if one looks also at how governability is constituted in the municipalities of our country - even that of this House, as I have said - you will see that it does not mean that the agreement with the guarantee that, once the investiture session is convened, in this case of a municipality, or the plenary session to know what the Government of this House will be, when it leaves that session, there will be a Government in this House or in the municipalities. Does Spain deserve to have no Government after this investiture session, after two electoral processes, as we had on 28 April and 26 May? He doesn't deserve it. And if I demand the People's Party and Citizens to abstain to facilitate a government, does it mean that I'm making a deal with them? Doesn't mean that at all, ladies and gentlemen. I am simply urging the People's Party and Citizens to assume their responsibility, and their responsibility is not to leave this country without an alternative, but, as long as there is no alternative on the part of the right-wing bench, at least to facilitate a progressive government like the one we have raised in the investiture speech. United We can say that it contributed decisively to the motion of censure twelve months ago, and I have to thank the United We can - I have done it on many occasions - to facilitate and support the motion of censure that, in fact, changes the political cycle in Spain and that has been materialized and reaffirmed by Spanish citizens on 28 April and again on 26 May. There is some nuance to incorporate in some of the comments that have been made by the spokespersons of Unidad Podemos. It should be remembered, for example, that they raised a motion of censure before we did it when we were immersed in an internal process of primaries. It must also be remembered, ladies and gentlemen, that the United Nations Group We can also meet with Mr Rivera's party to say that they were going to make an instrumental motion of censure, to put a president of the instrumental government and to call the elections. Therefore, what I want to say to you, Mr. Iglesias, is that of course you have contributed to the success of the motion of censure - and I thank you again for making it a record - but, Mr. Iglesias, at least acknowledge the leadership, the caste, the courage and, no doubt, the commitment of the Socialist Party and the Socialist Parliamentary Group in presenting this motion of censure as leaders of the opposition. [[Applauds]] United We can talk about that they want to rule - I leave aside that they don't trust us, because this about having a sworn police officer in the government seems a little weird to us - but at least it comes up. It's like I'm telling you I want to be by your side because I don't trust you. I think we can put those things aside. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, you say you must be in the Government to lower the cost of light; you say you must be in the Government to boost dependency; you say you want to be in the Government to increase scholarships; you say you must be in the Government to raise the minimum wage; you say you want to be in the Government to repeal labour reform. I have no doubt that thanks to their support we could do these things and many others, but, honestly and humbly, ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations Parliamentary Group We can, the Socialist Party has lived one hundred and forty years, forty years of democracy. We have governed more than half of those years in democracy and many of the things that you say you want to revitalize, for example, the national system of dependency or the public health system or, for example, public education, all the issues that we need to update, do you know who put them up? The Socialist Party when it ruled in Spain. [[Applauds]] I am not suggesting that you do not contribute and I do not question your commitment, on the contrary. I believe that you want to fight for equality and fight against social inequality and fight for fair taxation and fight for workers' rights. I insist that we have been twelve months, a year, collaborating, cooperating together to do many of the issues that, thanks to my belief in the understanding and cooperation of the left parties, are today realities for a large part of the population that today feels most vulnerable and needs the shelter of public institutions. But they are one hundred and forty years of life, ladies and gentlemen; they are forty years of democracy; they are many years ruling Spain, many years ruling autonomous communities, municipalities. We have been cooperating with you for a year; we have done many things too, and I ask you to be four more years cooperating in favour of all those collectives who need the commitment of your institutions. Ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations We can, the three questions that have to be answered are what, for what and how. In some ways, in the interventions of the various speakers of the United Nations We can see these are the questions that you, in your own way, have answered. As for what is difficult, it is indeed difficult; we come from different political and cultural traditions, although we belong to the left, the Socialist Party and what it represents to the United We Can; it is difficult because we have not only different political cultures, but also ways to understand and address some of the most urgent and most important problems from a social and State point of view. We, for example, did not agree with you at the end of the parliamentary term in the agreement to renew the Toledo Pact; we did not; it was you who precisely disagreed with an agreement that I believe would have had a broad consensus in the House. We are not only talking about State issues, we are also talking about social policies, but if we go into State issues, it is clear that we have a deep discrepancy in how to resolve the Catalan issue. It is true that other political forces are precisely in the territorial conflict to try to scratch a number of votes outside Catalonia and do not want to solve the crisis in Catalonia, but we want to solve the crisis in Catalonia. I am not saying that you do not want to solve the crisis in Catalonia, the problem is that we have different ways of dealing with this debate. You, for example, when you talk about Catalonia, the feeling it gives me, Mr. Asens, from the outside, you know what it is? That you consider Catalonia to have only one voice, which is only one people. I consider, Your Honor, that in Catalonia there are many voices, there are many peoples and there are many people who want to stay in Spain and who do not want to follow the sovereignist drift in Catalonia, so the problem is coexistence. It is not a problem between Catalonia and the Spanish State, which is what is sometimes inferred from the approaches you make in your interventions. This is not a crisis and a conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State; this is not a crisis and a conflict between an oppressed people and a State that is not a social and democratic state of law, when you raise, for example, the existence of political prisoners. They're not in Spain, Your Honor! There are no political prisoners in Spain! [[Rumors]] What there are are politicians who have allegedly committed illegalities that are now being tried before the Supreme Court. The criticism that must be made of politics, which I do as President of the Government and I have done as leader of the opposition, is that a political crisis has been brought to justice or that justice has been politicised, when we are talking about Catalonia and, therefore, what we need to talk about is a political solution. [[Applauds]] It is clear that we have discrepancies, it is clear that we have fundamental discrepancies in how to address an issue that is going to be crucial for Catalonia's coexistence and, without a doubt, also for our State. They say I haven't talked about Catalonia. I insist, I have talked about Catalonia; I have talked about Catalonia and how I think the crisis in Catalonia needs to be resolved: defending the state of autonomy; also defending the state of autonomy in a federal Europe; deepening the European construction not only from the point of view of citizens' rights. With this, I can share not only the reflections that Mr Garzón has made, but also a construction of the nation states that undoubtedly affects Europe, and the construction of a Europe of the regions, a Europe of the territories, a Europe that has to give a much more local perspective to much of its governance and, without a doubt, also its problems. Therefore, Mr Asens, ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations, it is clear that we have a difficulty in dealing with the solution to the Catalan crisis. We share a diagnosis in part; in another, no. Do we share a diagnosis that it's a political crisis? Yeah. Do we share the diagnosis that the People's Party's appeal to the Constitutional Court of a statute, which was voted on precisely not by the majority of Catalans, but by those who participated in a majority by that Catalan self-government? Obviously, we share it. However, I say to you, Mr Asens, ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Group of the United Nations We can, that we are not talking about that; we are talking about that there are sovereignist forces right now in Catalonia that they want to break with the constitutional order, break with autonomous Spain and independence from Spain. This means, ladies and gentlemen, a crisis of enormous coexistence in Catalonia, and I would like to hear Mr Asens say on many more occasions to Mr Torra and all those who are right now at the head of the Catalan institutions that what they have to do is talk to the other part of Catalonia, which the independence side of Catalonia has to recognise to the non-independence side of Catalonia. Without a doubt, it is important that you make gestures with these political formations, but do not forget one thing, Your Honor: there are many non-nationalist Catalans, constitutionalists who would like to see Ada Colau speak firmly and forcefully in favour of the social and democratic rule of law that exists in our country. [[Applauds]] Therefore, what is very difficult because we have different political cultures, because we have a very different collection on important issues, for example, the Spanish Constitution, the construction of the state of autonomy and, without a doubt, what you call the right to self-determination. On many occasions you, and other Members of the United Nations Group We can, speak that the Socialist Party in Suresnes supported the right to self-determination of the peoples of Spain, that the Party of Catalan Socialists supported it a few years ago, in my opinion, wrongly called the right to decide in Catalonia, and do so as a reproach, as saying that we little less have betrayed our origins when it is not true. We are consistent with the contribution we have made to the construction of coexistence in Spain, because what we do is to defend the constitutional order, because what we do is to defend the state of autonomy, which is being called into question not only by the sovereignists, but by the right and the far right, which they want is the re-centralisation of many of the powers in the General Administration of the State leaving without many powers and policies in the hands of the autonomous governments. There is no doubt that what we have to do, ladies and gentlemen, is to be aware that there are many people who are delighted that we understand each other, that we agree on content, on policies, that we reach an agreement, for example, to facilitate the ecological transition, that we reach an agreement to make a tax reform, to better protect self-employed workers, to implement housing policies, to ensure the sustainability of our public pension system, etc. And they will make it very difficult for us, ladies and gentlemen; very difficult. You will be able to criticize me many things, but at least I hope that you will give me autonomy from economic power. I do not question the autonomy of the United Nations Parliamentary Group We can with regard to economic power; I do not speak of entrepreneurs who can support the United We can - I do not question it - but at least, ladies and gentlemen, do not do the same with the Socialist Party and with that - which is my case - which is presenting itself to this investiture. [[Applauds]] But there will be people who will make it very difficult for us. For example, those analysts who were in the Square of Columbus claiming to the People's Party the understanding with Citizens and with the ultra-right, today in many discussions in the media they tear their clothes defending the supposed rights of Mr. Churches and the United Podemos. Those people are the ones who would also blame me, if I came to an agreement with you, that members of the United Nations may be in government. But do you know what I'm saying to you, Mr. Churches, ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations? That I'm willing to take that risk. [[Applauds]] It says what and what for. It has drawn my attention very much, ladies and gentlemen, not having listened to you over the past few weeks and months to claim these twelve months of cooperation that we have had. We have raised the interprofessional minimum wage, we have recovered the universality of public health, we have recovered, for example, the benefit for the long-term unemployed over fifty-two years, we have recovered the social security benefit of those non-professional caregivers, mostly women, in the national system of dependency. We have put in place many things together and the balance that you do of those twelve months of cooperation, perhaps to justify what comes next - now I will enter into it - is precisely that we have not complied with the agreements set with you. You know that it is not true, that a high percentage have been met in all areas, and you even know that even with a coalition government, as you are asking, you and we do not have an absolute majority. I hear you speak and reproach me for speaking as if I had an absolute majority in this Parliament. I agree that I do not have it, it is obvious, but also when I listen to you, ladies and gentlemen, it gives me the feeling that you guarantee us that absolute majority, and that is not true either. Therefore, if we are just and want to answer the question of why, the first thing we have to do is to claim the two political forces of these twelve months of cooperation that have been positive for the whole of the citizenry, and so it has been validated, as you, Mr. Iglesias, said on 28 April at the polls and, secondly, to look forward and guarantee four years of progress with left-wing policies such as those that I defended this morning from this rostrum, but we would also like to reach agreements with you in many other measures. Now we're in the way. We talked about what, for what, and now about how. You have stepped aside and I thank you, Mr. Churches. I believe that there are decisions that are difficult, but that benefit the majority of Spanish society as a whole, and those difficult decisions, often or sometimes as is their case, do not have to be made by a government, and that is why I from the rostrum have to thank you for the step you have taken. Having said that, Mr Churches and ladies of the United Parliamentary Group We can, we started after 28 April a conversation in which the Socialist Party and I have offered five different scenarios of understanding and cooperation to its parliamentary force: we have offered a Government of the Socialist Party with the external support of the United Nations We can, you said no; we have offered a Government of cooperation where we were not only telling the Parliamentary Group of the United Nations We are the preferred partner, we were not only saying that we were going to set up a follow-up committee for the implementation and evaluation of the pacts that we could reach, we were not only saying that we wanted to incorporate personalities of the United We are in the areas of public administration without being part of the Government of Spain, and you said no. The third offer I made to them was to incorporate independents of recognized prestige into the Government of the Government of Spain coming from the United States, Podemos, nor did they want to. And the last of the proposals has been to put forward a coalition government with the Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos, even though we are aware that we do not have an absolute majority in the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos. That is the proposal I have made to you, and you consider that everything has been excused and that all we are doing is asking the conservative forces to vote to facilitate the government of the Socialist Party. This is not true. We want to govern with you, we want to carry out many policies that are going to be for the benefit of the citizenry, to which we represent - you and us - and that hand you have spread. I tell you one thing, ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations Parliamentary Group We can: if we do not finally reach an agreement to form a coalition government, there are many other options that can be opened up. You can open an investiture agreement, agreeing content that can explain not only to your party, but also to your voters that you can facilitate an investiture of a socialist president and avoid what happened in 2016 with the vote against the United We can either the Socialist Party or you can also open other scenarios of parliamentary agreements without the need for the incorporation of the United We can a coalition government. I insist, the proposal I make to you is a coalition government, but what I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, is that between a coalition government as you are proposing and that you vote with the far right against the investiture of a socialist president for the second time, in three years, I believe that there are many options that can be opened up during these days. Ladies and gentlemen, all I ask is generosity, responsibility. Let us not break the hopes of many left-wing voters who want us to understand each other. Of course, I am open to that coalition government, to that understanding among the various parliamentary forces to do many of the things that Mr Garzón said in his speech. But I also say to them, "Mean your vow, I ask you to meditate your vow." [[Applauds]] Because what we can do from next August, once that government can be established with its help inside or outside, I think it will be worth it. The proposal is on the table, a coalition government, with a parliamentary force such as yours, with which I honestly believe we have many things to share and many other things to disagree with. We are aware - in this we must be realistic - that we do not have an absolute parliamentary majority, so all these variables must be taken into account in the composition of that Government and, without a doubt, in the form of the responsibility of that Government. Therefore, the hand is spread, if you consider it opportune during these days until next Thursday we can dialogue to reach an agreement. If we do not reach that agreement, I would ask you to meditate on the vote and at least to facilitate a progressive government for Spain over the next four years. [[Applause from the Socialist Group and from the Government in office, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Candidate. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Turrion Churches has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, sometimes this kind of investiture debate runs the risk of becoming a dialogue of the deaf, in which the parliamentary rostrum is used to repeat arguments and there is a lack of listening. My speech is going to stick exclusively to what you said today. When you don't read a speech you win and say interesting and some disturbing things. He has put a lot of emphasis at the end of his intervention in the expression: If we do not reach that agreement, insisting with that 'if we do not reach that agreement' in which we only have two options: give them free support or situate ourselves with VOX, with the extreme right. Be careful when you say what you think because there may be a lot of people who could collegiate from what you have said that you may not want a coalition government with us. Because those who want a coalition government do not propose a decorative role for a political force of 3.7 million votes or make offers outside democratic culture. It was very fun to hear one of your spokespersons answer the question: Do you know any collaborative government on planet Earth? And he said no, because in no country are coalition governments organized from subordinate positions dependent on the Council of Ministers. That you assume that this is a respectful proposal to your parliamentary partner could contribute to offending some. It was also striking when another of its spokespersons was asked at a press conference why a coalition government was not reached in Spain, as is the case in Germany and in at least twenty of the twenty-eight countries of the Union. You guys answered something like Spain is different, like there's no tradition of that here. But here, from the moment that citizens decide that political formations have a certain electoral weight, governments have to have the representation of those political forces proportional to the votes that citizens point out. You tell us here that we have to be generous and responsible, and I believe you have not seen in this House greater exercise of responsibility and generosity than ours. We have withdrawn our candidate because you have put forward a veto, and we have not done so because it was a demand from Spanish society, but because it was the excuse that you could cling to in order to avoid a coalition government. [[Applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal]] If any candidate of the Socialist Party in the government of the State, in the government of any autonomous community or of any town hall ever asked him to "remove himself", would he do the same as we have done? I don't think so. We have revealed that you have made an excuse and then without that excuse there are few arguments left, but when you say that if we do not reach that agreement it might seem that this offer from a coalition government is just as much as what you offered before, another excuse. Because a coalition government is negotiated in proportion to the weight each has, it's not a lentil government: this is my offer, you accept it, or if you're not like VOX. That is neither serious nor respectful of the political ally nor respectful of the citizens. You have said: Together we have no absolute majority. It's an indisputable mathematical truth. As it is an incontestable mathematical truth that you have 123 Members separately and with 123 Members you have raised here for weeks, for months, that you wanted a government alone. Man, I say, that with 165 Members it will be easier to give stability to this country than with 123; it sounds like an excuse to say that 165 votes will not give stability to Spain, something more than 123 will give it. And with 165 we already have more than the People's Party, Citizens and VOX. You alone in a minority would have less parliamentary support than the three right-wings, so actually 165 is more than 123. That's what mathematics is like. [[Applauds]] It has drawn my attention to the fact that you have defended your proposal to reform Rule 99. After the 2015 and 2016 elections, when the People's Party was the first political force in this House, had the People's Party proposed to reform Article 99 so that you could immediately make a minority government you would have supported them in that reform? Perhaps some of you do, but Mr. Pedro Sánchez did not because he resigned from his seat in order not to facilitate, by means of a abstention, the government of the most voted political force, which was the People's Party. [[Applauds]] So, any citizen who is listening to us can reason that you do not make this proposal because you believe that it should be transformed, because you must reform Article 99 of the Constitution, you make this proposal exclusively because the election result has favored you and as you are unable to reach a coalition government agreement you want to change the rules after the party. It is not serious to change the Constitution like this. They already did so once with Article 135 by agreeing with the People's Party. They do not intend to take Spanish citizens for idiots, the Constitution is a very serious thing and in a parliamentary system when no absolute majority is present, no ultimatums are raised, agreements are reached. A political leader in democracy, in a parliamentary system, does not measure his height only by the votes he has, he measures his height by his ability to reach agreements with other political forces. [[Applauds]] You have spoken of caste and bravery in the motion of censure. We tabled a motion of censure that you did not support and, of course, that we proposed an agreement to Citizens if you did not dare to lead a motion of censure, because it was scandalous the corruption that we knew of the People's Party and we were prepared to have that motion of censure ensure that the Spanish could vote. And then at the last moment you filed that motion of censure and we worked to add that majority. Do you think it would have been so easy to move the vote of the Basque Nationalist Party if we had not made it clear that we were willing to make an instrumental motion of censure to call elections? I don't think so. Motions of censure are dealt with this way, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] You have done something that has been claiming the one hundred and forty years of history of the Socialist Party to despise our ability to change certain things. [[Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejon, candidate for the Presidency of the Government, makes negative gestures]] You have come to say: as we have been here a long time, you are not going to come and teach us lessons about how social rights are protected. Look, I know the story in your game very well. My grandfather was a leader of his party at a very distant time when being a leader of the Socialist Party could cost you life and freedom. My grandfather was sentenced to death and spent a few years in prison. I know the history of your party very well, but the history of your party is very broad. If a political force like us exists it is precisely because this party and this party brought to this country cases of corruption that citizens did not tolerate and economic policies that condemned the expectations of many citizens. [[pointing to the left bench and to the right bench]] You have done many things, and good things, but be humble, if it weren't for your mistakes, we wouldn't be here. [[Applauds]] You have spoken of the Toledo Pact. We ask that the television cameras come in so that they can hear what each parliamentary group stood for there, and it is no coincidence that the pensioner groups, after meeting with us, have asked us to be in the government because they understand that we are the main guarantee that pensions are revalued with the CPI and protected in this country. With regard to Catalonia, democratic systems, as is normal, have criminal types designed to pursue behaviour for political purposes. When Tejero entered this House with a gun, which has left holes in this roof that have been cited in today's investiture session, he was not committing a common crime; he was making a coup d'état, and it is normal for a democracy to protect itself from a coup d'état. What we have here is a debate; some claim that what happened in Catalonia on October 1 was a coup d'état, was a rebellion, with weapons, with deaths, with shootings. And Jordi Cuixart himself said in court: What happened in Catalonia was an exercise of massive disobedience. And disobedience is no stranger to the law, disobedience carries criminal sanctions, and that was recognized by one of the Catalan prisoners. But that you deny that a democratic system has criminal types to defend itself from crimes that have political purpose is to take people's lives, and so it must be. It seems good to me that there is such a typification. [[Applauds]] But what you must recognize is that Catalonia is a state problem, and every time you reach out to the People's Party and Citizens to face the Catalan conflict, you lose sight of something very important: for the right, Catalonia has ceased to be a state problem, it is an electoral opportunity. Catalonia is not a new state problem. When Suárez and Tarradellas negotiated nothing less than the recognition of a republican institution pre-existing to the 1978 Constitution, such as the Catalan Generalitat, they were doing politics and recognizing that the issue of plurinationality is the constituent of the Spanish State. We are asking them, assuming their leadership, to have a strategy to deal with a state conflict from dialogue rather than from criminal law. And many times you have made proposals very similar to ours in Catalonia. When you try to negotiate the position of the Spanish Government on Catalonia with the right, you are giving up a solution by democratic, civic and sensible means of a problem that is historic in our country. The right in the Transition had much higher political heights than has been demonstrated in recent years to address the problem of plurinationality in Spain. [[Applauds]] Finally, Mr Sánchez, do not damage your political heritage. We have the opportunity to make a left-wing government from respect for the ally, from the proportionality that the votes we each have must give us in participating in that government, without proposing to the ally that he be merely decorated in that government. We have the opportunity to say in Europe that Spain can be the alternative; that while in Italy the 5 Star movement governs with Salvini, with a xenophobic, and proposes the destruction of European values associated with human rights and social rights, Spain can be a European and global reference of a progressive coalition government that puts social rights at the forefront. Take care of that political heritage, because you did an election campaign with two keys: the first, insisting that you would make an agreement with us, three days after the general elections you declared in the newspaper El País that you had no problem making a coalition government with us and then changed your stance. You based your campaign on fear of VOX and many Spanish citizens mobilized to stop the extreme right. Do not despise, however much the polls of Tezanos push you to an electoral repetition, a political heritage that you can lead by building a government with us. And to finish, you're going to forgive me about the pressures. Who spoke of pressure on television was you, in an interview with Jordi Évole, recognizing that the leaders of the Prisa Group and that César Alierta pressured you and your party not to rule with us, and acknowledging that you gave in to that pressure and made a mistake by not reaching an agreement with us. I think it is better that you, of the pressures of economic power, be more prudent when you speak. Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in Communal, stood up.-Applause from Mr Iglesias Turrión addressed to his parliamentary group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u51	Thank you, Mr. Churches. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Finally, Mr. Churches, some previous considerations. Yes, I do, and I will propose, if in the end I count on the confidence of the House, to amend Rule 99, and that is not in conflict with the will to reach an agreement with you or with the ability that you may have to convince and persuade them and to guarantee a formula of governability in our country. That is as if you said that you are less democrats, for example in the Basque Parliament for having another form of election of the lehendakari in that Parliament, for example in the Asturian Parliament, for example what happens in all the plenary sessions of the municipalities or what happens in the Congress of Deputies, where we know exactly what day the Bureau of this House will be set up. Therefore, all we are doing is to redouble all the guarantees of stability that the political system needs. It is clear that the parliamentary reality and also the cross-cutting interests of many political parties make it impossible for an unfailing investiture to be achieved. We have already had a few over the last few years, and I therefore believe that reflection has nothing to do with trying to change the rules of the game that would undoubtedly have to be done once we have a government in Spain, but at least the next time the Spaniards are called to the polls, be aware that they will only be asked once for the formation of a government in our country. I'm not saying that if we don't reach that agreement... suspensive points... you don't take things that way either. It gives the feeling that you only see the negative form of everything I say. I have told you once, two, three, four and five times that I want to reach an agreement with the United Nations Parliamentary Group We can, that we have moved, that we have moved five times, that we are offering a coalition government to the United We can. Finally, Your Honor, I have one thing to say to you: I am very sorry that you are commenting on the proposals made by the Socialist Party for the United Nations. We can and say that they are of a decorative government, it does not seem serious to me, Mr. Churches; it does not seem serious to me. In any case, I will tell you a number of things: the first, if we do not reach that agreement, think a lot about voting against, with the far right, the formation of a socialist government. [[Rumors]] Yes, well, maybe for you this is a frivolity, it gives you equal and effectively lead Spain to the blockade. It gives the feeling that here in the end if we go to the blockade and you vote with the far right, with the People's Party and with Citizens not at the investiture of a socialist president, it turns out that here the one who wants to go to elections is the Socialist Party and not you. Well, man, you two agree and come up with an alternative government! By the way, PP, Citizens, VOX and United We can add, absolute majority!Go ahead, you two talk. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: Come on!]] Man, I think we have to be serious, ladies and gentlemen. We have to be serious. [[Rumors]] Look, cooperation, ladies and gentlemen, there is cooperation in Portugal... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u53	Please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u54	... cooperation exists in Denmark, cooperation has existed over the past twelve months also in Spain and we have taken a lot of things forward together. You speak only of a coalition government, as you see it, and also make an invocation of the parliamentary regime. And I say to you: if we go to the parliamentary regime, there are many ways that we can understand United Podemos and the Socialist Party. From an investiture agreement, which is precisely what the People's and Citizens' Party did to unlock the institutional crisis in June 2016, to a parliamentary agreement, and that parliamentary agreement can obviously have the formation of a coalition government or not the formation of a coalition government, but between voting against an investiture and having the only option of a coalition government, as you see fit, it seems to me that there are many other ways of understanding. Therefore, I am simply opening up and claiming many other formulas in order to reach an agreement. You say that we have indeed made mistakes in these one hundred and forty years of history, that you know very well the history of the Socialist Party and speak of your grandfather. Without a doubt, I am convinced that the Socialist Party has made mistakes, without a doubt it has made them, but I will also tell you one thing, Mr Churches: the world does not start and end with you. The United Communist and Left Party were before you here, existed and therefore represented another left to the left of the Socialist Party. Therefore, it is not that you are the fruit of the errors of the Socialist Party, it is that the sociological reality of this country makes that to the left of the Socialist Party there is always another left, a left that has previously been the Communist Party, United Left and today has emerged in the reality that you represent. Therefore, we have certainly made mistakes, many more correct than mistakes, and to those correct I meant when I spoke precisely of the fact that during these last forty years of history the welfare state, if it has a stamp, is that of the Socialist Party. With regard to Catalonia, Your Honor, I repeat more than anything in the approaches I have made to tell you that, of course, I thank you for worrying about my political heritage, no doubt I thank you very much for worrying about my political heritage. I will also tell you that the approach I have always taken from the Government when, after the motion of censure, I had the honour and opportunity to form that Government and those teams is to make a Government that was not monopolized by the Socialist Party. There are people of recognized prestige who do not have the licence of the Socialist Party, but who are people of reference in their various professional fields and to whom I am grateful that they have joined the Government and left aside their successful professional careers. Therefore, Your Honor, what I want to say to you is that I have never had a monopolistic mood for power, on the contrary, I logically want to share it with you and there is the proposal, but I will also tell you one thing, Mr. Iglesias: the Government of Spain has to obey the general interest and that is what I have to safeguard as a candidate for the Presidency of the Government. I hope that you will accept the offer that we have made to you, which is generous and which has nothing to do with decorative elements of the United Nations. We can in the Government, because, otherwise, unfortunately, we will be able to see ourselves engaged in what we do not want and it is precisely a failed investiture and therefore electoral repetition. Think about it, meditate on it and assume your responsibility as well. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u55	Thank you, Mr. Candidate. Mr Iglesias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u56	Thank you, Mr. Candidate. With regard to the reform of article 99, what fails is not article 99, what fails is not the Spanish Constitution, what fails is not the rules of the game, what fails is an inability to reach agreements. It makes little sense that, after three months of paralysis, a candidate who fails to have sufficient support for an investiture says that we have changed the Constitution. Mr Sánchez, in many Baronic governments of your party have reached agreements with other political formations such as ours. I insist, it is not serious and disrespectful with the Constitution that as a result of your inability to get the support in an investiture - if I do not fail the memory you have only obtained the support of the Regionalist Party of Cantabria at the moment - we have to amend the Constitution because you do not get the support enough to be president. In a parliamentary system, I insist, the candidate's role is not only to win the elections; if he does not have an absolute majority, he has to demonstrate his ability, his boldness and his intelligence to reach agreements with other political formations, not to propose to change the rules of the game because he fails to reach agreements. Speaking of what you were telling me about it doesn't seem serious to you to say that you offer us a decorative paper, I'll be very honest with you. You said you would never share the ministries of state with us. Moreover, when we said that we would like a model like the Valencian, where all the teams are mixed, and that there could be our people on the teams of all the ministries, you said to me personally: Not to mention, in no ministry that leads anyone of the Socialist Party there will be any person of the United We can, with which you assumed for yourself Interior, Defense, Foreign and Economy. And when we asked them that in order to develop the program that we can agree with you we would want some Finance competition, they said, "No way, no Finance competition. Well, to develop the program we've agreed with you, we'd like some work competition. They said, "No talking, no work competition." To develop the program that we can agree with you, we would like some equality competence: no talking, no equality competence. When we ask them that in order to develop the program that we can agree with you we would want some ecological transition competition, they said: No talking. And when we asked them that to develop the program that we can agree with you we would want some science competition, they said, "No talking. Mr. Sanchez, what have we been offered? Explain it to the House to see if they think it's more than decorative. [[Applauds.-A lady MP: That, that]] Mr. candidate, we are only asking you for respect and reciprocity, respect for 3.7 million voters who have the right to have the same respect as the citizens who voted for the People's Party, that citizens have voted for Citizens, that citizens who voted for VOX, those who voted for Bildu and those who voted for the Republican Left of Catalonia, ladies and gentlemen, the same respect. And that is why we are putting forward a sensible way out: that in proportion to the votes we have obtained each political force, let us make a coalition and an integral agreement, in which we set ourselves a series of government objectives and that we are able to share power, which is what the citizens have proposed to us. I believe, Mr Sánchez, that there are many people who are listening to us who have the feeling that you act as if you have absolute majority when you say: My Government includes independents who do not have the Socialist Party's card. That could be done by Felipe González or José María Aznar, but whoever has 123 deputies has to negotiate with other parties how his cabinet of government is set up, as is the case in twenty-eight countries of the European Union, as is the case in the Valencian Community, in the Balearic Islands and in the Canary Islands, and as is the case everywhere where a coalition government is to be reached. You have only raised a personal veto and we have replied that we will not even leave that excuse. At the same time, he wants us to say to the 3.7 million citizens who voted for us that their vote is worth less than those who voted for the Socialist Party. We are a modest political force, a young political force, but we are not going to let ourselves be trampled or humiliated by anyone. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we can, in common, put a few of them on their feet.]] We are willing to make a coalition government with you in the proportion that the votes have given us and if not you have an alternative: Convince the People's Party to make a major coalition agreement with them or with Citizens or convince VOX or convince them to reform the Constitution to change the rules of the game, as they are demonstrating their inability to reach parliamentary agreements. You have another option, which is to listen to Mr Tezanos and call a new election. Let me give you a warning. If by lockdown they do not make a coalition government with us, proportional to the votes obtained, I fear you will never be president of Spain. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, let us-in-communal May-Galicia in common, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Churches. Mr Abascal Conde has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u58	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to remind the civilian guards wounded a few days ago in the Melilla fence in this rostrum. Again, dozens of foreign citizens have assaulted our border, beating and hurting our guards and attacking our sovereignty. And it's not an isolated fact. It is a repeated phenomenon too often in the face of the passiveness of the Government of today and we must also recognize it from the previous Governments. Mr President-in-Office, the VOX Parliamentary Group is not going to support your investiture. [[Applauds]] I don't reveal any secrets. In fact, you have not even asked for our support and have excluded VOX thus saving us all the hypocrisy of that round of consultations that you held with the rest of the political forces, by the way, more typical of a presidential republic than of a parliamentary monarchy. It has not surprised us, because you are the great architects of the sanitary cordons that I was talking about this very morning and of the policies of apartheid, that is to say, of applying censorship to those who dare to dispel their foolish ideological agenda. Indeed, in the VOX Parliamentary Group we are not going to support Mr Sánchez's investiture and I have to admit that some have asked us in recent days if we were to contemplate a patriotic abstention, as Mr Sánchez demanded from the Citizens and People's parliamentary groups a few hours ago. I answered that a long time ago. I believe that VOX is the furthest parliamentary group from the project that Mr Sánchez has for Spain and, in fact, I am also sure that you will be proud of it. Me too. [[Applauds]] You threaten us, even if you do not say so, with a government supported by all facets of political extremism if Citizens and the People's Party do not support you; old communists and new communists, separatists, proteras, chavistas and coups who intend to form a popular front with two different objectives: the break of national sovereignty and the change of regime. We think that today's debate, so programmatic on some issues, are the trees that do not let the forest see, the forest of a process that has existed in Spain for a long time. Ladies and gentlemen, I am the son of a simple trader from Amurrio in Álava, in the Ayala Valley, in Basque land, who left us today just two years ago and who entered politics to defend his homeland threatened by ETA criminals. My father, Santiago Abascal Escuza, came to sit for a few months in this Chamber representing the Basques who were still standing, when some fell killed by separatist hatred, others fled the victims of blackmail and fear and others the worst surrendered and betrayed. I confess that I got into politics when I was eighteen years old only to defend my father, who was threatened with death during the last thirty years of his life. I had no other vocation, but very soon I realized that those killers were not blood-thirsty madmen; or, rather, they were not just blood-thirsty madmen. They were also criminals with a concrete political project, which was to end Spain as a nation, to break the coexistence between the Spaniards and to implement a dark totalitarian ideology. [[Applauds]] Well, Arnaldo Otegi, convicted of being a leader of that criminal gang and who participated in the kidnapping of an ambassador from the Kingdom of Spain, Javier Rupérez, and in the attempt to kidnap a father of the Constitution you claimed, Gabriel Cisneros, says that you are the best option to occupy the Government. And you or, which is the same thing, the public television that runs per person interposed corresponds to the terrorist flattery inviting Otegi to the Spanish Radio Television screen. You should have avoided the historic shambles of that interview, which is a further humiliation to the victims of terrorism and to all Spaniards. And they should also have avoided calling VOX that very night so that we could serve as an alibi, a trap in which of course we did not fall. [[Applauds]] And with regard to that televised infamy, we would like to know to the Members of VOX and to the millions of Spaniards - I know this will surprise many Members because they consider it past - whether this effort to normalize terrorists in Spanish political and public life is the result of the negotiations that Mr Zapatero had with the terrorist band ETA. In fact, we would like to know the full content of those negotiating minutes that we have formally requested in this House. We believe that the Spanish have the right to know whether Mr Zapatero's PSOE has launched a road map to whitewash the history of ETA, legalize their political brands, to release and grant pardon to terrorists, to turn Navarra over to Basque separatism or even to promote a constitutional reform that contemplates the right of self-determination and, therefore, the liquidation of national sovereignty. The Spanish have the right to demand the content of these minutes from the Government and to know whether the Government of Spain, whether the Governments of Spain have had or have mortgages with terrorist gangs, that is, whether they have mortgages with the enemies of Spain. In short, we need to know whether this popular front, from which you are only one of the leaders, is the result of a process that is born from 11 March 2004 and in which two threats converge: one, the very existence of Spain, through impunity for Catalan separatism and the normalization of the political marks of ETA; and another threat to the constitutional order that denies the change of regime and even seeks to overthrow the planetary monarchy. Of all that process, the short-term usufructuary, if it remains in the government, will be you, Mr Sánchez, but those who are going to pick up the nuts will be the usual ones, it will be the separatists. The existence of this process is the only way to explain the permanent challenge of the Generality of Catalonia, an institution in absolute rebellion against national sovereignty and which once again enjoys incomprehensible impunity even though they have reiterated that they will do so again. The same impunity that led to the coup d'état of October 2017 during Mr Rajoy's government, the impunity with which many deputies who sit in this House, who have inexplicably acquired the status of deputies and who, instead of complying with the Constitution as required by law, have openly sworn to fight it in the name of the delirious principles of October 1. Well, Mr. candidate, with these allies you intend to be invested president of the government, with the friends of the condemned Otegi, with the friends of the coup player Junqueras and also with the friends of the tyrant Maduro, that satrap that well made up by Zapatero has plunged Venezuela and our Venezuelan brothers into chaos, violence, repression and hunger. Allow us, Mr Sánchez, not to give you any credibility if you intend to disguise yourself as a politician with a sense of state and allow me also to repeat in this rostrum a warning to the seditious, to the thugs and to terrorists: beyond the secret pacts or the promises you have received from one party or another in exchange for your parliamentary support, give up all hope, because you will never achieve your political or criminal objectives. Spain has not come this far to be defeated by a gang of seditious half corrupt and half fanatical, because you do not know how many children of merchants, workers, students, unemployed, doctors, judges, men of the field and of the sea will stand up forgetting any difference when they feel threatened their homeland. [[Applauds]] I hope very soon that the vast majority of Spaniards who want to continue living in peace and freedom within the constitutional order will be banished from the institutions they intend to invigorate. It would be a great news for the state to be able once and for all, after thirty years, to deal solely and exclusively with solving the problems of the Spaniards instead of continuing to believe them. Ladies and gentlemen, there are Spaniards who urgently need the effectiveness of the state, that effectiveness that we so often see when it comes to the Tax Agency and that we must start moving to the rest of the nation's agencies and institutions. Because as the left continues with its crazy social engineering agenda by implementing a staggering progressive dictatorship, which they want us to swallow with it, and as the separatists conspire against the Constitution, the Spanish have to continue paying the bill, the Spanish on foot, an increasingly bulky bill that, according to your speech, Mr Sánchez, will increase even more. If you work, income tax; if you save, property tax; if you consume, value added tax; if you invest, property transfer tax and documented legal acts; if you give it, donation tax, and if you die, inheritance tax. Taxes, taxes, taxes with which they ruin the living Spain, the early Spain, with which they ruin the middle classes so that, with their effort, they sustain the autonomous nonsense, the political waste and the orgy of subsidies. It is unacceptable that there should be children who have to give up the inheritance that their parents leave them, to whom it has so long cost them to generate it, because they cannot cope with the tax bill that you impose on them. [[Applauds]] And it is unacceptable that small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are drowned with taxes that Mr Montoro and Mr Rajoy have raised and that you will continue to rise, as announced today. Taxes, fees, bureaucracy, European, national, autonomous and municipal guidelines that are suffocating and impoverishing the middle and most disadvantaged classes, destroying employment or creating it in conditions that make it impossible for our young people to develop a life project. Because let us say it openly, the social elevator is broken in Spain, and it has been broken precisely by those who say they work for the disadvantaged classes, to which they have not helped, but have managed, instead, to ruin a large part of the middle class by systematically threatening private property, disregarding merit and effort; as we have seen, by the way, a few weeks ago with Amancio Ortega, a humble Spaniard made to himself who have brutally defamed for creating employment and for committing the most serious crime of making donations to public health; or as they did with Ismael, the currant of the pladur, whom his ultra-leftist writers tried to ridicule for not accepting the medicine of the oligarchies progress in an already well-known interview. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel a deep anger and indignation when a self-employed person tells me a few days ago that this summer cannot even take a few days off; or the SME entrepreneur who says he has to close because he cannot bear the burden of a state that, among others, is becoming a gigantic and unsustainable apparatus of socialist propaganda. The worst part of all this is that you, from all political parties with government responsibilities, dedicate the money of those taxes to destroying wealth, to financing coup processes that are still under way, to restricting freedoms so that only some can speak and annihilate the equality of Spaniards before the law. When you don't do it directly you take it to those associations where your friends and comrades are, authentic parasites that are strangling freedom and impoverishing the society that keeps them. Those political commissioners who appropriate sectors of the population as if they were their legitimate representatives and dare to dictate who could or could not attend a demonstration. By the way, when I come to this point, I take the opportunity to ask you to stop Mr Marlaska, listening to his shameful justification for the attack by some energetics on Members of this House, I better understand why in the numerous electoral processes of this course supporters and VOX activists have suffered all kinds of insults, coercion, attacks and threats as no other political force in this House has had to suffer from them. I imagine the Minister of the Interior found them perfectly justified by the simple fact that he doesn't like how we think or what we say, and I'm sorry. On the other hand, I am pleased to inform you, Minister, that you will continue to listen to those nearly three million Spaniards who have trusted in our political formation, because they voted for us precisely to defend their right to dissipate from the progressive consensus of all parties and from the vast majority of the media. [[Applauds]] I would have liked to take advantage of this parliamentary session to thank all the political spokesmen who have sympathized with VOX supporters who have been assaulted, threatened and insulted throughout the national territory since last December, even since before. But I have already done so in person, because there have been very few signs of solidarity received and because almost no one, no political group, has supported our denunciation against those violences, which seem to be beginning to be seen normally since the communism with which you want to agree popularized the enslavements in Spain. I can understand that lack of solidarity, ladies and gentlemen, because fear is a very powerful gag, but you must understand those who today are silent that this violent apartheid that now suffers VOX, this permanent media lynching and this street harassment, is in fact lynching and harassment of democracy, the right to dissent, the freedom to think differently and the duty to rebel against those who seek to impose a totalitarian discourse. On the attacks we have received during this course, I must add that they were instigated by several members of this Parliament. One of them came to decree the anti-fascist alert, to turn our voters into some sort of Nazi monster that would have to be exterminated, and a few hours later, attacks were received at our headquarters. I'll make a confession that I'm not particularly proud of: for a moment it went through my head to decree an anti-communist alert in Galapagar. What would have happened, ladies and gentlemen? We will not know, and we will not know, because we, in theory violent, intolerant, xenophobic, sexist, homophobic, and all those beautiful things that they dedicate to us, have much more sense of responsibility and respect the laws and freedom of the people even though you demonize us and point us out as enemies of women, homosexuals and immigrants. [[Applauds]] By the way, a Communist MP has said that VOX, after hearing the supposedly harsh interventions of the People's Party and Citizens, would go down with the guns to this rostrum, and he has said it seconds after claiming to Indalecio Prieto, who in 1934 pulled a gun in this Chamber, bitterened it and threatened Congressman Jaime Oriol. As always, a double measuring rod. Posts to tell truths as obvious as silenced, ladies and gentlemen, let me share with you what many Spaniards think. The voices of supremacist feminism speak not in the name of all women, but in the name of their own ideology, which is a totalitarian and, by the way, also suicidal ideology. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] The LGTBI collectives that attacked the representatives of Citizens speak not on behalf of all homosexuals, but of those who have done a business of money and power to speak on behalf of them. Non-governmental organizations - non-governmental but always maintained by Governments - neither represent immigrants nor save them in the Mediterranean; on the contrary, on many occasions they are the necessary collaboration with the mafias who profit from trafficking in human beings. In fact, not even animalists speak on behalf of animals, despite their irrational and totalitarian discourse. Ladies and gentlemen, VOX has come all the way here, among other things, to denounce this political friction that you want to put in place and for which a few are praising the representation of everyone with the public money of all Spaniards, even those to whom they want to gag. Accept it and get used to it: VOX has come here to stay; VOX also represents many women who don't think like you; VOX also represents many homosexuals who don't think like you; VOX also represents many Basques and many Catalans who don't think like you, and VOX ultimately represents millions of Spaniards who just don't think like you and who are sick of you all telling them how to think, what to say and what to do. [[Applauds]] And all those VOX voters, and many more who still don't know us because they have formed a wrong idea of us through political and media manipulation, are demanding a project that has nothing to do with yours, Mr Sánchez, or with that of your alleged partners. They are Spaniards who demand the restoration of the constitutional order in Catalonia, the dissolution of the coup parties and the illegalization of any separatist project to break national unity and democracy. We cannot allow the enemies of national unity and democracy to continue to use State instruments to undermine national sovereignty. They are Spaniards who are aware of economic nonsense and who understand that we must recover, for example, competences in education and health as a first step for the equality of all Spaniards throughout the national territory and for the State's reversal of autonomy. They are Spanish fed up with fiscal hell and ask for a drop in all taxes that cannot be eliminated and that would be many if we abolished subsidies to parties, unions, employers and the general waste of political spending. They are Spaniards who create jobs despite the administrative obstacles, those that already exist and those that you have announced. They are Spaniards who do not find employment or who to do so have to accept conditions of semi-slavery that you will not fix with that status of the workers that you announced this morning, because there will be no more employment here as long as our industries and our field have to continue to compete with products that have been made in other countries that have no working conditions or rights. They are Spaniards who require a political agenda aimed at promoting the culture of life in the face of the culture of death, because you have already advanced your plans to deal with the ageing of the population: a law of euthanasia. He also said that he wants a Spain that is the best country to be a child, from the right to education to the right to play; he failed to say the right to be born, Mr Sánchez. [[Applauds]] They are Spaniards who claim the right of parents to choose the education of their children and that the family is deeply respected. They are also field Spaniards who see their life-forms threatened, and their traditions threatened. They are Spaniards who want a national hydrological plan for the water of Spain to be everyone's. They are Spaniards who want freedom to go to the bulls or not to go, who want freedom to go to hunt or not to go, but who do not have to endure that some subsidized fanatics demonize them and call them killers. They are Spaniards who want to remain Spanish and enjoy freedom and equality throughout the territory that understand our borders and that demand that politicians deal with the really important problems, such as the demographic suicide that we are experiencing. Ladies and gentlemen, how is it possible that the most crucial phenomenon, which will most condition the future of our people, which affects, for example, the maintenance of the public pension system or the very survival of our culture, has not generated here all this time or today a great deal of debate and no urgent solutions have been proposed? I know that some, for a mixture of laziness and irresponsibility, are not worried. We will solve it, they say, with immigration, which is the big rabbit that gets out of the joke: 270,000 new immigrants every year for twenty years is the crazy figure that some fools handle. And it is not just Mr Sánchez, that almost all of you, ladies and gentlemen, share an indifference for the aging of the Spanish people, coupled with a particular enthusiasm for so-called multiculturalism, which is nothing other than liquidated the identity of Spain by introducing remote cultures, with different loyalties, with different views of the world and with different and sometimes abominable ideas about women or that do not even contemplate a difference between civil laws and religious ideas. This reminds me a lot of this to the poem Solution, by Bertolt Brecht - which is one of his own - in which the author ironies about how the people have disappointed his Government and advises him to dissolve the people and choose a new one. For that multicultural nonsense of choosing a new people is what many here seem to propose when it has already failed all over Europe, a Europe that, already advancing them, is not going to bend to the impositions of the progressive and globalist oligarchies no matter how much they demonise millions and millions of Europeans. In VOX, of course, we oppose illegal immigration, which you from the institutions, despite what you said this morning, defend, encourage and call, and by having that position, what do you do? The easy thing, the usual: demonize us, insult us and call us xenophobes and racists. Right, Ignacio? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, a nation without borders is not a nation, just as a house without walls is no longer a home, but if you are in favour of entering Spain in any way, you have the right to raise it; that millions of immigrants who wish to enter our country, at least have the courage and honesty to defend it in this way. Tell the Spanish people: that they will dismantle the borders and that from now on we will share our resources with every inhabitant of the planet who wants or needs to settle down to live among us. But what is embarrassing is to establish procedures to enter Spain legally and then reward those who skip them, thus encouraging them not only to disregard our laws but to a risky and sometimes deadly adventure that makes the mafias who trade with human beings rich; a kind, ladies and gentlemen, of games of hunger, an infinite cruelty, where you, the solidarity, promise rewards in the form of pay and health care that then sometimes does not reach all the Spaniards and promise it to those who violate our own legality and live to tell it. We, in spite of what you say about us, accept legal and orderly immigration, immigration geared to the needs and possibilities of our economy and which pays particular attention to the ability and willingness of the immigrant to integrate into our culture and to accept our laws. That is why, when necessary, we particularly accept Hispanic American immigration for Spain and as a possible solution for Europe. And this, you say what you say, is pure common sense and that is what most Spaniards think, even very many of the voters on the left bench, as it is common sense to demand that foreigners who commit serious crimes or recidivism in the mild be deported to their countries of origin, with whom, by the way, agreements will have to be reached to serve their sentence there and never return. [[applause]] Well, instead of this, many of you are committed to deceiving the Spanish people. We live it daily; for example, when a repugnant collective rape is committed by Spaniards we know even the most trivial and personal details of the authors, large demonstrations are called and the headlines multiply. But in the dozens of similar crimes when their perpetrators are foreigners everything changes. Three collective rapes have been reported last week, but in these cases the national origin of criminals is blatantly hidden and it is said to be done in order not to provoke xenophobia. Do you understand what this means? Do you think the Spaniards can't know the truth, the real facts of crime, because you think you're crazy? Do they have to protect them as if they were minors? Unfortunately, this is nothing new, it has been happening too long and not just with this topic, for decades telling ordinary Spaniards that they are stupid, that they are xenophobic, that they are homophobic, that they are macho, that they need to be permanently controlled and re-educated by their elders, that is, by you and your media speakers. It is curious, because this very House is the result of a regime, democracy, which starts from the idea that sovereignty resides in the people and that we are only their representatives. If so, how can one pretend that ordinary people are wise enough to choose those who govern them but not to rule their own lives? That desire shared in Mr Sánchez's government project is what we have been calling a progressive dictatorship since VOX and what we oppose and what we will vote for, Mr Sánchez. A totalitarian vision of society that, even as in the most terrible dystopic novels, dares to dictate our memory. See if you are anachronistic that when you stop thinking about 1936 you only reach 1984. Some people are obsessed with what happened in Spain eighty years ago. Of course, this obsession is very well remunerated through chiringuitos and corresponding associations and, ultimately, it is that with the money of all the Spaniards are dictated what they have to think about our past, about a concrete historical epoch. Ladies and gentlemen, the Historical Memory Act is essentially an attack on freedom, as well as an insult to intelligence. [[Rumors]] His proposal to expand it is the most totalitarian initiative that this House has heard since the old speeches of Paul Churches. It is amazing that we have to waste time and money in this effort of you to desecrate graves, tell lies and impose your sectarian view of history or your truth on history. [[rumors]] A story written by you and your employees that hides, for example, that the founder of your party Pablo Iglesias threatened to die from this rostrum to Mr Maura in a month of July like this and that, a few days later, Mr Maura was shot. [[Laughter]] In the discussion that followed - even though you laughed at it - José Canalejas and Eduardo Dato intervened; Canalejas was killed a couple of years later and Eduardo Dato a little later, when he was also president of the government. [[Rumors]] In this very House Socialist and Communist MPs threatened Don José Calvo Sotelo, one of the leaders of the opposition, and days later, in a month like this, the bodyguards of a socialist leader went to Mr Calvo Sotelo's house, took him out and ended up murdered. However - listen well, Madam President - last July 13, on the anniversary of this crime, the official Twitter account of this house preferred to remember another very important event: Frank Sinatra records his first album. Finally, a historical memory in its own way, where crosses that remind the victims of hatred are removed and statues are erected to the murderers. [[Applauds]] But let's go back to our days, because we're capable, we don't know if you are. I believe that I have shown the insurmountable differences that exist between the VOX Parliamentary Group and the socialist, communist, chavista and separatist conglomerate representing the project that Mr Sánchez intends to lead. [[rumors]] We believe, Mr Sánchez, that if your investiture comes forward, you will cause much damage to Spain and we know that you do not care, because you only long for power. Mr Sánchez, I believe that with you the middle classes will suffer more than they already suffer and it will cost them more and more to reach the end of the month. I think the Catalans living under a coup administration and totalitarian will be more unprotected. I believe that our admirable military - many on a mission around the world -, our State Security Forces and Corpses and our prison officials - all those who look after our security - are going to work in worse conditions and are going to be little or nothing recognized, as I believe they are not going to be recognized nor the just wage equality they deserve. I believe that the so-called effect of illegal immigration, which creates a drama in the countries of origin, creates a tragedy on our borders and creates conflicts in our neighbourhoods, will continue to be nurtured. I think they're going to continue the wages of misery that make it impossible to form a family. I think women are going to be more unprotected because you won't put sex offenders in jail forever. What's more, I remind you - since you are so full of mouths talking about the defense of women - that it was the Socialist Party in 1994 that reduced prison sentences for rapists. I believe, in short, that the popular front that you really want will bring misery to the economy, bring confrontation, restriction of freedoms, insecurity on the streets and advantages and impunity for the enemies of Spain. But I also believe, Mr Sánchez, that Spain will resist, because the Spaniards have always been above their worst rulers; because this is a great nation, one of the great protagonists of universal history and its people, their people - they vote what they vote for - love their homeland and what they represent. And despite efforts to empty and relativize the nation, the Spanish continue to feel Spain deeply. Some naive people thought that they could liquidate it in October 2017 and took a surprise when they discovered Spain from the balconies and squares, which is nothing but the expression of Spain as an existential fact. We will bear, Mr Sánchez, the calamity that you are preparing for us, we will oppose with all our parliamentary strength your miseries and we will represent that living Spain that is loaded with the future, paying tribute every day and giving voice to those millions of Spaniards who every day on the streets thank us for having arrived here and who are not ashamed to say: Long Spain! [[Several Members: Long live!-Extended applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u59	Thank you, Mr. Abascal. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u60	Thank you, Madam President. The Spanish Constitution and the European project enshrine values shared by the majority of Spanish society and European society. The value of non-discrimination, tolerance, political pluralism, equality between men and women, respect for diversity in the end. Today, unfortunately, in Spain, after many years, we have heard again from this rostrum a speech full of intolerance, intolerance towards minorities, towards diversity and towards those who do not think like them. And I want, ladies and gentlemen, because I have not done this before in my speeches, to recognize the extraordinary work that Fernando Grande-Marlaska is doing at the head of the Ministry of the Interior. [[Applauds]] We have heard a speech full of intolerance, we have heard a speech full of nostalgia from pre-democratic, neo-offranquist times today, revisionists of a history that, fortunately, we pass and that we certainly do not review, but that we simply want to close many of the wounds that, unfortunately, still suffer many Spaniards and Spaniards who are looking for the remains of their loved ones in many of the counties of our country. [[Applauds]] But we have also heard a classist discourse, a discourse where equality between Spaniards is questioned and where in some way it is translucent, a discourse of hatred charged with rage is inferred precisely from those who, as a result of the transition to democracy, saw all the privileges and riches that were achieved by that democracy in the heat of the Franco regime. That is why I believe it is important to remain alert, and that is why I believe it is important to be aware that progress is not irreversible and that, consequently, many of the rights and freedoms for which we have fought for many and many years will have to defend them more resolutely than ever. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, the approach is as follows. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, the approach is as follows: since the 28th of April and, without a doubt, since the 2nd of December in Andalusia, the far right has become much more visible in Spain. It has entered the autonomous parliaments, it has also entered the Parliament of Spain, as we have seen, and it has a parliamentary representation, no doubt important, but not so much, ladies and gentlemen. If we compare ourselves with other countries of the European Union, it is clear that the far right in our country does not represent what it represents today in Germany, what it represents in France, what it represents in Italy, in Austria and in many other Member States of the European Union. Much less representation and votes were obtained on 26 May; a lower percentage and a lower number of votes. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is not so much the parliamentary representation that they can have, it is not so much the number of councillors and councillors that they can have in the municipalities or even of deputies or deputies in the autonomous parliaments; the problem is that a country that last April 28 said not to the ultra-right, that last May 26 said more emphatically than not to the ultra-right, sees, as a consequence of the irresponsibility of the People's Party and citizens, the ultra-right having a decisive influence on municipal and autonomous governments. [[Applauds]] That's what worries me, Mr. Married, Mr. Rivera. Mr. Rivera, do you hear me? It's the far right. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Mr Rivera, Mr Casado, do you hear what your partner, your partner in Murcia, your partner in Castile and León, your partner in Madrid, your partner in many cities and autonomous communities because they have put a health cord on a constitutionalist party like the Socialist Party? [[Applauds]] Yes, and this is what we are suffering right now in Spain: a European anomaly, ladies and gentlemen, a genuine European anomaly. If we are going to what makes Mr Rivera and Mr Casado brotherly parties in the European Union, we see that the behaviour is radically different. In France, for example, the National Front, led by Mrs Le Pen, has not been able to govern in thirteen regions as a result of the fact that a health cord has been put on by the French constitutionalist forces - for following the terminology - to Mrs Le Pen's far right. In Germany we have heard not only Chancellor Merkel, but also those who seem to be the successor to the CDU and CSU - the lady known by her abbreviated name as AKK - who would be willing to resign - listen well, Mr Rivera, to renounce - the German federal government so as not to agree with the ultra-right, as you are doing, Mr Married and Mr Rivera. This is the anomaly we are suffering in Spain, because if you look at what is happening in Sweden, you will see that a health cord has been placed on the far right. If we look at what has happened in Finland, what we have seen is that the right-wing parties that have agreed with the far right have caused a sound defeat of conservative theses, and right now it is the social democracy that is governing. In Spain, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party and Citizens have put a health cord on the wrong party, the Socialist Party. And its parliamentary importance will be of twenty-four seats, the day after tomorrow it will be of fourteen seats - those that are, those that decide the Spanish citizenship in the electoral processes that we have in the future - but it is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that we are seeing a setback in many of the political approaches by the People's Party and citizens as a result of that influence. We are seeing, for example, Mr Casado during the election campaigns and also many leaders of the People's Party banalize with gender-based violence, talk about domestic violence and not say that it is indeed gender-based violence. We are seeing how the governments of the People's Party and the Citizens' Party, supported from the outside by the far right, are trivializing with the phenomenon of migration and little less than saying that here are the open doors for all the immigrants who come from African countries, and that is not true, ladies and gentlemen. I said in my first speech this morning that we are defending regular migration, not irregular immigration and that, as a result of the migration policy we have implemented, we have now reduced the arrival of immigrants by 27%. And that is why I have made an explicit reference to the good doing and good work that public employees of Maritime Rescue are developing. We are a country with deep democratic convictions and, without a doubt, we respect human rights and we will not leave anyone in the Strait or in the Alboran Sea to drown. [[Applauds]] There is little more to add, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that there are multiple phrases that challenge the People's Party and Citizens, not precisely the Socialist Party or the progressive forces in this House. It is clear that the photo that best explains the drift of the People's Party and Citizens is the one we saw a few months ago in the Plaza de Colón de Madrid. [[Rumors]] I hope, Mr Casado, I hope, Mr Rivera, that you will reconsider this position, that you will lift the health cord to the Socialist Party and put it to the real threat of Spanish democracy, which is the far right. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u61	Thank you, Mr. Candidate. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Abascal Conde has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u62	Mr. Sanchez, how is it to bring in the prepared replica before you hear me speak. [[Laughter]] Intolerance, classism, nostalgia, and you said this that you do not tolerate anyone taking the opposite of thinking forward. You say that, precisely you who want to end the freedoms of so many Spaniards; you who are the architects of the sanitary cords; you who are all day talking about historical memory. What has been the part of nostalgia, which I have remembered a part of history that cannot be remembered? Exactly what do you mean? What's the problem? You brought the papers already prepared and had to say something above all to not answer me, but to answer the lords of the People's Party and Citizens' Party. I don't know if I should come out here to answer you, but what has become clear today about your attacks on some, your silences before others, your phobias and your perfectly identifiable subsidiaries, the tone with some and the tone with others, and your lies about some and your affection for others, is that you prefer Otegi rather than Ortega Lara, even though you are attacking and trying to defame our voters and what we represent, what you think 2,700,000 Spaniards think. [[applause]] And this allows me to say that today we attend, you say what you say and do the artifice games you do, to the consolidation of the Popular Front in a gradual way, in the vote on Thursday or in the vote within a few days; a Popular Front that, with its responsibility, threatens national unity and seeks a regime change that seeks to take forward also the parliamentary monarchy. [[Rumors]] Yes, with those they will agree, with those who want to take the parliamentary monarchy ahead. I understand that they are scandalized because they have not heard these things in the gallery for a long time, but they have heard worse things on the other side and do not scandalize them so much. [[Applauds]] Do you know what the drama is, Mr. Sanchez? That you were kicked out of the PSOE because they didn't want you to rule with communists and separatists, and the dramatic thing is that today you are going to do it with the complete silence of the PSOE, even worse, with the applause of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party. You have ignored us completely and you have not asked us to abstain, less badly, I almost thank you, Mr Sánchez. [[Laughter]] And we wouldn't give it to you even if you promised us a rectification because you don't have credibility; because we saw you get involved in a giant flag of Spain as if you were an American president and, weeks later, we heard you say that there were four nations in Spain; because we really believe that you give as much as I do, that Juana gives you the same thing as your sister, and we believe that you don't have scruples, but that you only have ambition of power. Mr Sánchez, the truth is that I think you will be elected president of the Spanish nation's government, perhaps not today, but later with the votes of the Spanish nation's enemies. I cannot congratulate you or wish you luck, but I must say that I sympathize with your fate and that history will judge you as best as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u63	Thank you, Mr. Abascal. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Married, Mr. Rivera.. [[laughs]] I don't know why they laugh because, in fact, what we're hearing is very worrying. [[A Member of Parliament: Batasuna!]] What we are hearing is a reactionary speech that questions many of the rights and freedoms that we have won during these last forty arias of democracy. What we are listening to is a speech that challenges our model of coexistence in all areas, in respect for minorities, in respect for diversity, in respect for equality between men and women, with expressions such as those you have been listening to, feminist jihadism, chiringuitos, progressive dictatorship, etc. [[a Member of Parliament: iEn Navarra!]] [[Laughter]] Therefore, Mr Rivera, Mr Casado, all I ask you to do is to listen to what Mr Abascal has said, to reflect on your position in the governance not only of Spain, but also of many autonomous communities and municipalities and, above all, if you do not want to listen to me and do not want to trust the word of the Socialist Party, I ask you only to listen to the advice and action of the liberal parties in Europe and of the People's Party also at European level. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u65	Thank you, Mr. Candidate. Mr Abascal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u66	Thank you, Madam President. I see that Mr Sánchez reiterates his lies and, moreover, he does not even know who our partners are in Europe. I would like to inform you, it is the Conservative and Reformist Group within which the British Conservative Party is. I am saying this in case you have the right to report correctly, and yet I am also saying that we will not be involved in the demonisation or the health cord against any other European political group. But, even if you haven't answered me, I take the opportunity to say goodbye to you and tell you that you will find in VOX throughout this legislature an insurmountable obstacle to your project. Know it yourself, know it your friends and your allies. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u67	Thank you. Mr. Candidate, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u68	Simply, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make an exercise in claiming these forty years of the Constitution, in order to make a demand for equality between men and women, in order to make a demand for tolerance and the rights of minorities in particular in our country, and in order to tell them that, regardless of whether they can coincide from a programmatic and parliamentary point of view with the People's Party, Citizens and the ultra-right in many of the approaches we have heard during this investiture session, they will fortunately have a parliamentary majority not only expressed by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, but also by many other parliamentary forces to safeguard their rights, coexistence, tolerance and freedom for all. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the Government in office, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-07-22-CD190722.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Candidate for the Presidency of the Government. In accordance with the agreement reached on the Board of Spokesmen, tomorrow we will continue with the interventions of the remaining parliamentary groups. The meeting was therefore suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was eight and forty-five minutes of the night.
