ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u1	The meeting was resumed. We begin with the point corresponding to the validation or repeal of royal decrees-laws. Royal Decree-Law 3/2019 of 8 February on urgent measures in the field of science, technology, innovation and university. To present the Royal Decree-Law, the Minister of Science, Innovation and Universities has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u2	Thank you, President. Good morning. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u3	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I appear before you to present to you the content of our royal decree-law to improve and speed up the system of generation and transmission of knowledge in Spain. It contains a few extraordinary and urgent measures, very focused on facilitating administrative tasks in this system, and some complementary ones to solve acute and urgent specific problems. I would like to thank the presence in the gallery of representatives of the scientific community and the university. I know that these measures that we are presenting today for validation are very much awaited by you and by you. Thank you for your patience. Ladies and gentlemen, investment in these areas has fallen sharply in our country over the last decade. In the period 2009 to 2017, while total public and private investment in the European Union as a whole grew by 22 %, in Spain it fell by 6 %. Spain made anomalous decisions for many years, which led to a decline in the capacity of the science and innovation system and a retreat from other countries, even when compared to those who suffered from the crisis as much or more than our own. This reduction was aggravated by a significant increase in the administrative burden of research work. The efforts - on the other hand, which are very much needed in general - to exercise more control over public expenditure resulted in a situation close to paralysis, for taking place in the absence of a ministerial department that could point out the specific aspects of scientific and research activity. Our researchers have faced enormous difficulties in implementing the funds available to them, and in hiring material resources and people in need on time. The freezing of public employment places and rigidities for recruitment have meant that young researchers have had no choice in recent years but to enter research centres with very low quality and unstable contracts. It is undeniable that the system needs much more budgetary effort, as your ladies and gentlemen have already pointed out in recent parliamentary initiatives, adopted without opposition in both Houses. The future of the next generations of Spaniards is being played out in a world where real assets are increasingly focused on knowledge, technology and innovation. A first step was included in the draft budgets returned to the Government by its ladies and gentlemen a few days ago. I hope that a new budget which at least includes the same financial effort will soon be able to enter this House - already in a new legislature - and that this important matter will be discussed here in depth, with consequences for the distribution of public funds. However, there are urgent issues on which we can act here and now, which are not minor. When I arrived at the ministry, I met a scientific community dedicated to their work, with very high levels of scientific production and much hope, especially in the hope that the situation in which universities and research centres - in many cases unsustainable - were at last raised to the Council of Ministers, that a strong decline in scientific production would continue. The most urgent thing was not the increase in funds, but the measures we bring today for their validation. To illustrate the situation and urgency of these legal measures, I would like to remind you of some of the situations experienced in our science system for many years. The recruitment of researchers, even temporary ones, accumulates many months of delays in projects that last a few years, and as a result the work begins much later than necessary and the use of public funds becomes less efficient. Even in the case of research groups with access to very irregular funds, due to the quality of their results, indefinite recruitment from projects was not specifically regulated. This situation created insecurity and uncertainty in our researchers, who often left the scientific career or continued it in a precarious way. The delay in the actual use of funds and credits jeopardized the financing obtained in competitive competition, not only in Spanish calls, but also in the European Union or from private sources. The difficulty in purchasing materials and instruments slowed the experiments, impacting on the international competitiveness of our researchers and again on an inefficient use of public funds. In short, the public system has entered a situation of very worrying deterioration, as witnessed by reports from scientific organisations such as the Confederation of Scientific Societies or the Conference of University Rectors, the CRUE. It follows from this that the requirements of extraordinary and urgent necessity, in view of the negative consequences that could arise from inaction, and in accordance with the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, are met in this royal decree-law. The system needed a number of changes that understood the exceptional nature of researchers' work when compared to other public jobs. The researcher is difficult to compare with other public sector staff, due to the nature of his/her funds, since his/her activity is based on projects that are funded from competitive sources, not direct transfers, and that on many occasions also have external, private or international funding. Scientific work requires purchases with technical requirements different from those usual in the State Administration: advanced equipment, newly conceived chemicals, highly specialized computers, living samples obtained from remote regions, field protection equipment and many other examples. Since I came to this ministry a few months ago, we have been working on the drafting of the standard that I am presenting to you today. Our aim was to obtain a legal text where such necessary and urgent changes were made, while ensuring that there was no anomaly that could lead to a decrease in the proper strict control of the use of public funds. [[Rumors]] We believe that we have reached a very positive compromise...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u5	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u6	... and that your ladies and gentlemen will be able to endorse it today in the calm that all the necessary care has been taken. The final wording of the provisions means that it responds to the objectives I will now summarise, and also to the explanatory statement. However, any law is open to interpretation, and we will be vigilant if problems are detected in implementing improvements. We have also been scrupulous in introducing regulations that respect the competences of other administrations, uniquely autonomous communities, which have broad powers in these areas. I would like to thank the understanding and collaboration of all the ministries involved, in particular the Ministry of Finance, and the Ministries of Territorial Policy and Public Service and Labour, Migration and Social Security. I appreciate and appreciate the leadership of the Ministry of Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Equality, and the final thrust of the President of the Government, who announced, at his first appearance last July to detail the Government programme, that this Executive would lift the chains that prevent the effective execution of the budgets allocated to Spanish scientific centres. Those of you who have carried out tasks in the Government of Spain understand for sure that my words of thanks are not vain; without these support we could never have taken this forward. Today I present to you for validation by Congress the Royal Decree-Law 3/2019, of 8 February, of urgent measures in the field of science, technology, innovation and university, approved by the Council of Ministers on proposal of the Ministry of Science, Innovation and Universities. This standard aims to revitalize our public R+D+i system, facilitating the work of our researchers. It contains a total of ten legislative changes of four types: one, reducing the administrative burden on public research and making the use of public funds more efficient; two, stabilization and recruitment of researchers at universities and research centres; three, strengthening the functioning of the State Research Agency; and four, more equity and equal opportunities. In the area of administrative burden, the first measure is to replace the previous control, which is itself called, although it is often referred to as prior intervention, in public research bodies by permanent financial control, returning to the situation prior to 2014. Prior intervention has led to significant delays in the recruitment of services and personnel, which have affected the development of R & D+i projects and the securing of external funding. We believe that this measure will greatly speed up the administrative management of public research bodies, while also ensuring the control of public expenditure through compliance with the conclusions and indications of the reports on permanent financial control. A stage is beginning at which we must be vigilant and take all necessary measures to adapt the management of the research to this new circumstance, supporting its professionalization. The second expedited procedure involves a reform of the Public Sector Contracts Act 2017. Research centres and universities may enter into contracts with the same supplier for different units, which is essential in some procurement of specialized materials. Other measures to speed up the use of public funds are, first of all, the increase in the duration and extensions of scientific conventions to bring them into line with the time of research projects, up to the seventeen years of validity. And secondly, the more agile use of credits. Research centres, as well as consortia and foundations, may conclude credit operations directly from the European Regional Development Fund or the European Social Fund. Delays in the acquisition of equipment and in the construction and infrastructure of research centres will thus be avoided. This is a measure that has been adopted in various previous budget laws, and now extends to consortia and foundations dedicated to R & D & i. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u7	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u8	Another area covered by this rule is the speeding up of the recruitment of researchers, which, as I said earlier, has suffered many difficulties and insecurity in recent years. To deal with this situation, the Royal Decree-Law contains a modification of the procedure for the recruitment of workers to public research bodies of the General Administration of the State. From now on, these agencies will only have to request annual standard reports from the State's attorney for all planned recruitments, which will speed up the re-management of the recruitment of investigators and other personnel. The impact of this measure is high. To give an example, the CSIC signed more than 3000 job contracts for researchers in 2018, which meant making the full processing of reports thousands of times. The Royal Decree-Law also contains an amendment to Act No. 14/2011, on Science, Technology and Innovation, which will enable the indefinite recruitment of project personnel, specifically for the implementation of public plans and programmes for scientific and technical research or innovation, and financed by annual budgetary appropriations, resulting from final external revenue. This amendment shall apply to public administrations, bodies and universities and other public sector entities regarded as implementing agents of the Spanish system of science, technology and innovation, in accordance with Article 3.4 of the Science Act. The implementation of this amendment will help to reduce the temporality and instability of our scientists, especially young people. To strengthen the work of the State Research Agency, which has been suffering from a lack of resources and personnel, we have introduced a provision for it to be able to contract with private companies or charge public entities to increase human resources in a timely manner, and thus carry out the verification tasks of grants and grants they grant. This will shorten the time limits for checking the grants granted by the agency, which now reach almost the four-year maximum. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u9	Silence, ladies and gentlemen! I beg you, please, silence everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u10	I would like to make it clear that this measure does not mean increasing the number of audits or the administrative burden on investigators in justifying the grants and aid granted by the agency, but rather is designed to prevent them from having to wait a long time for the audit to arrive and speed up its justification. Finally, we wanted to include in this royal decree-law two measures aimed at improving equity and equal opportunities. On the one hand, the Science Act is amended to ensure that teachers and researchers with situations of maternity and paternity and temporary disability are not discriminated against in the selection and evaluation of their scientific activity. This was a measure long demanded by women to reduce the great disadvantage they suffered in the development of their professional career, if they decided to temporarily lower their work intensity to be mothers. From now on the consideration of these periods will be included in all calls and selection processes of the ministry and its dependent agencies. On the other hand, the Government has decided to support young university students who contracted university rent loans between 2007 and 2010, to help them pay for postgraduate studies. Young borrowers of a university rent loan will be able to improve the conditions for repayment of credit. Firstly, they will only have to start returning the credit when their income - strictly stated, their general tax base and savings for the purposes of IRPF - exceeds EUR 22 000 per year. Secondly, they will have a maximum period of fifteen years to repay the loan once the new terms are signed. This measure will benefit the more than 12 000 young people who have not yet finished returning university rent loans, of which a thousand have been in default. To prepare this royal decree-law we have taken into account the problems expressed by the entire scientific community, and I know that you, ladies and gentlemen, have done the same, since several proposals from Congress and the Senate are in the same direction. In particular, I refer to the motion adopted on 23 March 2018 at the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies, without any vote against, which included the three most important measures: prior intervention, amendment of the Public Sector Contracts Act and staff stabilization. There are at least three other initiatives already approved that requested the Government to take actions such as those I am presenting today, and that are: the non-law proposal of the Citizens Parliamentary Group, adopted in the Committee on Economy, Industry and Competitiveness on 10 May 2018, concerning the need to promote a national R & D+i pact, which provides stability and objectivity to the policy on science, technology and innovation; another is the non-law proposal of the Joint Parliamentary Group, presented by the PDECAT, approved with amendments in the corresponding Commission on 7 March 2017, calling on the Government to establish a stable and priority commitment to investment in R & D+i activities, such as the axis of economic transformation, job creation and overcoming the crisis; and as a third example the motion of the People's Group, adopted at the plenary session of the Senate on 24 May 2017, subsequently amended on the proposal of several parliamentary groups, urging the Government to push forward a national R & D+i pact to achieve a target of 2 % of the GDP in 2020. In addition, the rule subject to validation today also contains much of the content of a proposed law on this matter, presented in this House by the Parliamentary Citizen Group only three months ago, on November 16, 2018. I recognize that this royal decree-law is not the solution to all the problems of our system of generation and transmission of knowledge, but a substantial first step, yes, in the plans outlined by our ministry. The creation of a ministerial department with competence for the whole system, including the university, has made it possible to put forward a coherent and prioritized plan for the modernization and streamlining of the system. We have taken into account from the accreditation of university professors to public investment in the capital of technology-based companies, from the creation and maintenance of large scientific infrastructures to the encouragement of knowledge transfer by researchers. We have carried out part of the plan, for example, programmes to boost collaboration between small businesses and technology centres, the implementation of the public-private venture capital investment programme, the transfer period, and tomorrow in the Council of Ministers the status of training research staff will be approved - presumably, of course -. In addition, we are finalizing the procedure for the approval of remunerations among the various scientific research agents. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u11	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u12	I ended by thanking the great effort of the team of the Ministry of Science, Innovation and Universities, a professional and enthusiastic team, whose daily dedication has made possible the approval of this standard and many others before. We have taken decisive action in a number of European programmes, taking on the coordination of European countries in some areas. Our working tables on university reform are reaching very important consensus. We will be working on it until the last minute, but it is obvious that much more remains to be done by the end of April. Of course our wish would be to have a few more years to carry out the plan, and we do not give up on it. However, the plan should be above governments and parties. At the very least, we hope that Spain will soon have a government where university, innovation and basic science will be treated together in a specific ministerial department, with a team of technical people coming from below, and know how to pulsate needs and shape solutions, and of course defend sustainable budget increases in the Council of Ministers. At the moment we ask for the validation of the Royal Decree-Law 3/2019. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u13	Thank you very much. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, intervenes in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister of Science, Innovation and Universities. A cordial greeting also to those who accompany us this morning in the guest gallery. Five days after the announced dissolution of the General Courts the urgency of this royal decree-law is given by the parsimony palm of the ministry for which you are responsible to propose, in your ordinary period of government, the broad and varied measures and objectives contained in this regulation. Unlike other members of the Council of Ministers, you have not suffered in these few nine months a special parliamentary demand that would consume you time and extra effort, so, Mr Duque, you could have expected a greater agility to address priority actions such as those announced in your appearance last July at the Congress of Deputies, and in which you could have seen unanimity in political support for science, technology, innovation and university, because they are decisive factors for our future, and because in human terms it is a drama, in addition to a huge waste of resources, that, after having studied and prepared with great personal and family sacrifice, our people have to pack their bags and seek their professional future away from Spain. It is indeed unquestionable that the economic crisis has reduced national investment in R & D, and therefore it is peremptory to move towards the average levels of the European Union. Another reality is the lack of greater political impetus from the Government of Pedro Sánchez to bring, beyond words, the strategic research and innovative agenda in our country closer to the European political agenda in these areas. I insist, you come to Congress with this royal decree-law which is a reflection of pending subjects whose approval now demands in extremis through this abusive practice of the Government, which eludes parliamentary participation and control. Ladies and gentlemen, Asturias, my community of origin, occupies, as a sequel to a socialist autonomous government, one of the last places in the investment of R & D+i in relation to its GDP, and if for economic growth, competitiveness, productivity, job creation, in short the future of the whole of Spain, policies are very important and decisive to give a greater boost to technology, research, innovation, etc., in the specific case of Asturias this is already a matter of urgency, and hence a main reason to support the validation that, I repeat, we would have avoided if the ministry had been applied in time in its duties. Finally, I do not want to leave this rostrum without rejecting, as did the Asturian Parliament unanimously, the recent decision of the CSIC, which deprives the town of Villaviciosa of the Institute of Dairy Products of Asturias, IPLA, three decades after its creation, to transfer it to Oviedo, an unacceptable relocation that adds, for greater scorn of the Asturians and specifically of the Malians, to the renunciation of the creation, also in Villaviciosa, of the National Centre of Technological Competition of the Milk, an agreement that was signed just over ten years ago and that was never again known. Madam President, I would finally like to say a few words, taking advantage of the fact that this is the last plenary session, to thank you and express my appreciation to you for your impeccable work at the head of Congress. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u15	Thank you very much for your words. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u16	Thank you, President. Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, very quickly. The truth, Minister, is that we are going to validate this royal decree. We would have asked, in a normal situation, for the processing as a bill to be able to incorporate some amendments, because the truth, Minister, is that I recognize your efforts and efforts to try to solve some of the problems that concern scientific activity in our State. This royal decree significantly improves the situation, although we understand that there are several aspects that either remain short or can establish certain interpretations that can cause problems, and that those problems that we intend to resolve are not solved. But in any case they will have our vote in favour. Minister, as far as indefinite recruitment is concerned, I think this is good news, but we understand that it is short; it is short because, first of all, it should be extended not only to projects financed from public funds, but also to those with private funding, and above all because we understand that the opportunity to eliminate the replacement rate has been lost; it makes no sense to maintain the replacement rate. As far as smaller contracts are concerned, we believe that the temporality should be further clarified and that it should not be limited to one year. As far as science parks are concerned, the measure is quite limited; refinancing 2019's quotas is a very small part. In Catalonia there is a scientific park, such as Gerona, which is in competition with creditors. The only solution is not only a restructuring of the debt of 2019, but also a restructuring of the accumulated debt, and in some cases - let us speak clearly - a removal. Finally, Minister, we have also missed the opportunity to change the possibility that these centres can deduct VAT, considering that it is merely an economic activity. We had the consensus in the Finance Commission, where the Public Sector Contracts Act was being processed in special sectors with an amendment to the PDCat, but the interruption of the legislature will not make it possible. They could have incorporated it into this royal decree. In any case, Minister, we recognize your effort, although we understand that it has been short-lived. Let us hope that in the next parliamentary term, between all groups and the Government coming out of the elections, they can be remedied because some of these aspects are sure to generate controversy as to political interpretation. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u17	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u18	Thank you, President. Egun on. Good morning. Today we are discussing the validation of the Royal Decree-Law of urgent measures in the field of science, technology, innovation and university, a decree which the Government gave us an account of when it was going to be referred to the Council of Ministers, but it is true that we did not have it before to know and value its content, and therefore we did not have the opportunity to negotiate or improve it for a sector in which, in addition, all groups have called for solutions to the existing problems, and therefore to renew certain measures and situations which were ultimately detrimental to science and innovation. We all know the situation of science, we have discussed it on numerous occasions, and although this decree renews some situations, the truth is that science does not deserve a decree with isolated measures, but a public policy that bets decisively by the investigation. Having said that, we are presented with a decree setting out a series of measures which, although they reflect part of the problems or demands in the field of science, we understand that they are not enough and, once again, show us the lack of a certain diagnosis, which should mark the objectives of science; in short, a lack, until now, of a public policy committed to solving the problems of the system of science, technology and innovation that has a perverse effect on the research activity and, therefore, a deterioration in the whole system; an R & D+i system that in other countries is considered and treated as an engine of economic and social progress that must also serve the productive fabric and the society that is supporting it. It is a decree in which regulatory changes deal with the R & D & i system within the public sector, but leaves part of it aside from the private sector. For example, some agents accredited to the Basque Network of Science and Technology, constituted as associations of private non-profit law, are classified as research bodies of other public administrations and are therefore empowered to formalise predoctoral contracts for access to the Spanish system of science and technology or distinguished researcher, although not contracts for research and/or technical personnel to carry out specific research projects set out in Articles 26 and 30 of that Law. Given that the research activity is independent of the qualification of a public or private body, the legal power to contract through any of the modalities regulated by the Science Act should apply to all public or private actors forming the science system. It is a decree that basically contains measures to reduce the administrative burdens that hampered the development of scientific projects, to facilitate the stable recruitment of researchers, to avoid delays in calls, to improve equal opportunities between researchers - duration of agreements, amendment of the Small Contracts Act - and to finance technological parks. However, some clarifications of some of the measures adopted, which, by not having the possibility of consensus or amendment, will not be able to be improved, should be carried out. For example, recruitment of staff, which appears to remain subject to the replenishment rates of the State General Budgets Act. Nor has the deductibility of VAT borne in goods and services been addressed - as Mr Bel has already said - and that, according to the inspections, the nature of the economic activity of science, a concern of all groups, must be proved. The changes that have occurred in the environment are numerous and this must lead to the realization of a diagnosis and a process of adaptation to the innovation strategy in order to promote the concentration of resources and investments in R & D+i in areas where there are clear synergies with the potential capacities existing in a region, and this implies, of course, that they must converge the needs oriented from the demand with those driven by the advances of the scientific-technological supply generated. Spain is the first power in scientific publications, but it seems that it is not yet able to bring that strength to the productive system, without forgetting the necessary basic research. In short, as the decree establishes a series of measures that we believe are indispensable for the various agencies to work efficiently and effectively, eliminating some of the problems that exist, and although we believe that science must be valued by assessing both past and present experiences within a reflective process and not as isolated measures to reach a true policy that bets on R & D+i as an engine of growth, we will vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u19	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u20	President, Members, Members, Minister, I have been told that last Tuesday Mr Girauta dedicated an epithet to me, master plum, with courage, it seems, contemptive. Tell me teacher, really, it's the best of the best you can tell me. [[Applauds]] It has reached my heart, Mr. Girauta, it has reached my heart. Research, as well as teaching, are exciting tasks; they completely absorb you, there is no way to rid the brain of the need to think. The desire to learn, to discover, to investigate sometimes becomes a blessed obsession. This has always been so and will continue to be so. The incentive to investigate is often not proportional to the economic reward. Despite this, the researcher acts impulsively and cannot do anything else. This passion for research has been known by the many and many scientists, and the misunderstanding towards the researchers, too. For some decades now, the existence of a more complex society, which is transforming the world, has reached the laboratory, the library, the archive and the university classrooms, sometimes creating an authentic labyrinth from which we must come out in order to make things work. Plutarch, in his parallel Lives, says that the old Caton regretted that in the market of Rome an exotic fish was worth much more than an ox. Today we can say, emulating Catón, that it cannot go well in a country where many more less needed are better treated, considered and paid than those that generate knowledge. The approval of this royal decree-law, which the minister will have from our group, is an opportunity, but it is half an opportunity. No laws have been amended; for example, subsidies have been discussed here, the Law on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector, the General Budget Law. All this is suffocating, not now, but for a long time now, the Spanish R & D system. The current political context has not favored the development of rules of stalemate, which require extensive and serene debates and long-term commitments; in particular, there is a lack of essential changes in the university, which we will have to leave for the next parliamentary term. The research world finds these measures necessary, but insufficient. In this regard, we are committed to working in the next legislature and to working well. It is time to put these measures into practice, because only in this way can we continue to compete in the first division of science; we are already in it for performance, but we still lack much for the institutional quality of our research centres and organisations. To finish - I have little time - let me express some thanks, first of all, to the minister, for his closeness, and also to his team, because I have always had the doors open; it is worth it in times of anger to say these things. I would especially like to thank the Committee on Science, Innovation and Universities, because it has been a few months of intense work that allows us to think that a political consensus on long-term R & D measures is possible; all groups have been basic elements in order to achieve this first step, which will have to be achieved in the future. I thank each and every one of its members for their dedication and commitment to science and university. I want to thank the technical services for their work, especially Ignacio Carvajal; we know the luxury of having the lawyers and the technical teams we have, but being close to the person, not just the technician, has greatly facilitated our work. I would like to thank you for how easy it has been to serve as chairman of this Committee on Science and University, which shows that this is the way forward: science must be substantive and not an adjective of other ministries. To finish, I want you to understand my broken soul. I've tried to be open to the fullest, but I have a broken heart with friends who are in prison. It hasn't been easy to handle one thing and the other. As they already know that I like poetry and often poetry allows you to assume prose that you do not like so much, let me recite to them two paragraphs of a poet and a poem that have helped me. He is the poet Joan Oliver Pere IV and is the Corrandes d'exili. It says thus: 'A full moon night / we will give the carena / slowly, without saying. / If the moon made the ple / also the feu our pain. / A hope undoes, / an infinite resurgence. / And a country so small / that I am complete '. It's 'in favor', not against anyone. It makes us understand that sometimes the broken soul in a politician must serve to give the best he has. Thank you very much. Science, college, go ahead! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u21	I have the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez García.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u22	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, Minister. Decree-Law on the Spanish Broadcasting Council, Decree-Law on data protection, on macroprudential tools... as well as twenty-eight. This decree-law has been the number twenty-eight. This has been the real priority of this Government. You entered the government trying to sell us that science was going to be a priority for you, and so you made a Ministry of Science and put you ahead, a person of recognized prestige, but the reality, the facts show - and more in science, that you have to rely on the facts - that this government has had many other priorities and has presented many other initiatives before one of science. The science has brought it in in the discount time, in the final time, bad and late and on the horn. This is an urgent and necessary initiative, and it is an urgent and necessary initiative because - as you have said, Minister - our scientists cannot even spend the budget they have allocated, they are totally blocked, they cannot investigate and they are dedicated only to paperwork. Instead of fighting cancer, rather than developing artificial intelligence, rather than seeking measures against climate change, what they are doing is filling out forms. This is so and it was known to all groups. You said this: this has been discussed on countless occasions in the plenary and in the Commission, there has been a unanimous agreement by all the groups, we all knew what was going on, we all agreed on the solutions to be put forward. We, from Citizens, modestly, contribute to this already in the General Budgets of the State of 2018. It is true that what we did was not enough, we would have liked much more, but we already know how the People's Party is going, that it is difficult to move, and it could not be more. That is why, as you said, we already tabled a proposal for a law to improve our system of science and technology in November. All they had to do was copy that bill and submit it months ago, but they haven't, and what they've brought in, they've brought in late and, moreover, without talking to anyone. You, who speak of consensus, agreement, negotiation and that we put sanitary cords on them, have made a health cord to the rest of the House, because you have not spoken to anyone; you have presented the decree and, once you have presented it, you have said: Here you have it and you have to bring it to this decree-law. Yes, we will vote for it and approve it because it is necessary but it is not enough. There are many aspects of this decree-law that were necessary and that are not regulated. There is no talk of responsibility for hiring indefinite staff on the part of managers, nor of the regulation of conventions on major scientific and technological infrastructures, nor of the flexibility to sign international conventions and to belong to international consortia; there is also a need for a more ambitious reform of the Public Sector Contracts Act for research projects. There have been things that have remained in the tinter, and have remained in the tinter because it has been done wrong and late. There is also much to be done in other aspects of science that are necessary for us to move forward and for our country to really move forward, because without science there is no future. We need to talk about measures against the precariousness of researchers, budgetary stability, deepening administrative flexibility, encouraging technological transfer, improving the development of the system, supporting innovative companies or reforming the Sponsorship Act. These are outstanding tasks that we hope will be carried out in the next legislature, already with a government that really believes in science. But congratulations are due, because I believe that there have been positive aspects, with consensus, that have been the way in which we have worked in the Committee on Science. One example has been the Scientific Advisory Office, led by the President of Congress, which is very good news that we all have to congratulate. Let us hope that that consensus, that good manners and that way of working will be those seen in the next legislature. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u23	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party, Mr Sánchez Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u24	Thank you, President. Good morning, Minister. Firstly, I would like to begin by highlighting the diagnosis made in the preamble to this royal decreeley, because science has indeed been mistreated in our country. Our system of science, technology and innovation has suffered a lost decade, a decade marked by cuts and the flight of talent. In the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United We CanIn Comú PomemIn Marea we have very clear that the science system must be the engine of progress and economic development that allows Spain to change its productive model, to advance in the ecological transition, to generate a high value-added industry and to create quality jobs, because a sovereign country must maximize its scientific and technological capacity and that will undoubtedly be one of the major national challenges of the future. In his speech, Minister Duque argued that the government is undertaking a structural reform of science. We might not go that far, but we believe that the measures of this royal decree are urgent and necessary, although in some cases they can also be improved. Similarly, we believe that these measures, mainly related to management, most of which are urgent, are more appropriate to short-term reform; the structural reform that science needs in our country is still pending and requires more ambition. Indeed, the reform that we need is, in our view, to increase the research staff; to stabilize the teaching career; to return talent; to intertwine science, university and society; to truly bet on public leadership and, above all, to ensure the necessary funding with multi-year forecasts. However, the royal decree contains measures that seem to us to be positive. We welcome, inter alia, the speeding up of the recruitment of labour, the sound financial management of public research bodies and progress in the area of equality between women and men. But this royal decree again forgets - as the Federation of Young Investigators has shown - the precarious situation of thousands and thousands of researchers and still does not regulate the scientific career and does not offer itineraries that give future to those who want to dedicate themselves to science. Without caring for those who innovate, without caring for our scientists and scientists, we are hardly going to shield science and research in our country. On the other hand, I have to tell you that this royal decree should have included the regulation of the equal pay of IPO and CSIC scientists. In this regard, the Government is failing to comply with the Supreme Court's ruling that forced it to publish this royal decree and has lost an opportunity to restore an unfair situation that affects many investigators. [[Rumors]] Finally, I would like to devote the final part of this speech to assessing an issue which we consider particularly relevant and for which I was able to ask you in plenary. I am referring to the measures to help people who signed up for rent loans. Let's make a little memory. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u25	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u26	In 2007, the Government of the Socialist Party established the Renta University loan system to finance master's and, subsequently, doctoral studies. In the first year, the loans granted were truly income loans, i.e. loans whose repayment was conditional on obtaining a future income, which was set at EUR 22 000 per year, but in successive calls the Government removed that return threshold without just reporting. We know the result and you have explained it: at present, thousands of students in a situation of precarious work cannot return these loans and, in case there are few, the collaborating banks, like the Santander, have not stopped harassing the university students with commissions, with moratoria interests, with the incorporation of their data in files of lateness and even with some lawsuit. It is truly serious that the banks have been enriching themselves, even though these loans were financed with public money, with ICO money. To solve this serious problem, from United We can put forward a non-legislative proposal and get it approved at the Education Commission on March 22, 2017. As the People's Party Government did not fulfil the mandate of the Congress, this group submitted on 28 June a bill, which is currently in the process. Although we consider our bill to be more comprehensive and robust, for example in preventing bank abuse, today is a day to express our great satisfaction: finally, the Government is fulfilling our proposal and, if this royal decree is validated today, thousands of people affected by the loans will see their economic and vital situation improved. We also want to reflect: never again should a government set up student loans instead of scholarships. You today amend your own mistake, and it is right to rectify, but it must be clear that studying at university is a right that the public authorities have an obligation to ensure. Only with an extensive well-funded scholarship system and lower university fees can the right to education be guaranteed. Loans are a barrier to university access, putting students' vital prospects at risk and helping to perpetuate inequality. I hope the Socialist Party has learned the lesson. No more loans to finance university access, the right to education must never be commercialized. [[Applauds]] In short, today we express our vote in favour of validating this royal decree-law because for Unite-We can politics only make sense if it serves to help people and to make their life easier. Finally, I would like to convey a message to the representatives of the Association of those affected by the rent loans, who are with us in plenary. Thank you, thank you for your struggle. You are the example that you can. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u27	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs González Veracruz.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u28	President, Minister, dear Batet, ladies and gentlemen: last day of the last plenary session; Royal Decree of Urgent Measures of Science and University. I think you can imagine how emotional and important this is to me and to the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We finish in the best way, fulfilling the word; the word of the PSOE, the word of Pedro Sánchez and the word and agreements of this House, which is mandatory to be complied with by the Government. [[Applauds]] What makes me most excited today is that there are many people who are listening to us and whose reality, something as important as what they do for the whole country in their laboratories, changes today thanks to this decree. It's a turning point in their lives. That's why we're so excited, isn't it, minister? I am not going to hide what it has cost and, therefore, I want to thank the work of the whole government, of the rest of the ministries, of course of a minister, who in a short time I have had to learn, coming from outside, what this is about politics, and all of his team. I would also like to thank the Ministry of Finance, but above all the President of the Government, because they show that it is possible to do so and with conviction. I would also like to thank in a special way all the people who are here with us today, in the gallery and also in the rooms, because they are the real engines of what we are getting today and of all that remains to be achieved in this country in terms of science. [[Applauds]] With the CRUE, the Cosce and the unions we reached a precious agreement in 2013, and today I get my hair pointed seeing that it is possible to move forward, although there is a lot to do, and I will not - you know me - be the one who does not recognize it today. I do not know how many times I have said here, in the Committee on Economics and in the Committee on Science, that after the brutal cuts of the People's Party came something even worse: the increase in bureaucratic obstacles, the paralysis in laboratories, in public research bodies, in universities and, therefore, the difficulty in implementing those funds that did exist; political decisions of a government - that of the People's Party, let us be clear - which brought Spain back to black and white in our laboratories. That is why the creation of the ministry was urgent and why the hope generated by this decree was also urgent. In my opinion, the decree generates a turning point that paints Spain of progress that we want in the face of the involution that the People's Party assumed. Ladies and gentlemen, one today is politics, but first of all it is a citizen and has been aware of science for a long time - since I decided to study biochemistry - and sometimes it bothers me that it seems that there are no politicians busy and concerned about science, because there are. Review the Journal of Sessions, review the control sessions, review the sessions of the Committee on Economic Affairs and the commitments of the Socialist Party and Pedro Sánchez and the facts that demonstrate today that, as I say, we keep our word. That is the difference in action from the Government, because from the opposition we all say many things here, but when the reality changes it is in the Official State Gazette, as the Government of Pedro Sánchez has done and only in eight months. [[Applauds]] This decree - which I hope will be approved with the support of all the groups - means: less bureaucracy, that is, more science; finally, goodbye to the previous intervention, something that we all said but that when we had to vote on it in the last General Budgets of the State - by the vote of the People's Party and of Citizens - could not be a reality; longer duration of scientific agreements; facilitate the purchase of materials, which was one of the last stories that the People's Party left us almost at the end; indefinite recruitment from projects, in short, care for talent and facilitate recruitment, not pursue it, which is then when the flight of talents happens, as we have lived in recent years; strengthen the State Agency of Inquiry - which was approved in the 2011 Act, but which the People's Party took endless years to launch and has had to arrive a Socialist Government to strengthen it and to make it useful - and, ladies and gentlemen, equal opportunities. As the socialists amend the Law of Science so that there is no discrimination on maternity and paternity leave, you, that right with three faces, continue to tell us that we have to go back, that we have to go back to a Spain in black and white, something that socialists and women are not going to allow, I assure you. [[Applauds]] In the short time I have left I do not want to forget those affected by Renta University loans. The measures of this decree benefit more than 12,000 young people. Of course, I would like to thank my colleague, the university spokesman, for his willingness to allow me to defend this decree. I would also like to thank Comrade Seijo of the Federal Executive for all her work in the field of universities. Ladies and gentlemen, we live up to the word, not with everything, because it has not given us time, but today it is shown that not only is that commitment that Pedro Sánchez had with the researchers in February 2016 and February 2018 still in effect, but we want to continue to govern to make Spain a country of science, of innovation, to be able to comply with the Law on Science and to do justice with that thousand researchers who have to see their approval in pay; to continue to stabilize the staff: more than 1,400 jobs stabilized in just eight months; to approve these important General State Budgets. That is why I call on scientists and scientists to mobilize, because the Spain we want is not the one that we paint only the socialists, it is the one that most of this country needs and the one that of course scientists and scientists need. And I'm done. It has been a real honor for me to share this legislature with all of you. It is an honour to be able to serve my country, my region, and I would like to convey from here my greatest affection and affection especially to the Members with whom I have had much more friction - I saw them now even in discussions -, to the Members for the Region of Murcia and to my colleagues in the Committee on Science - President, we feel represented by their words. In addition, I want to say that the two spokespersons who are not here today for many of us are also. And, of course, I would like to thank my group, the Socialist Group. It's been a very tough legislature...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u29	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u30	Yeah, I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u31	It's just that you've been two more minutes of the time.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u32	Thank you very much, President, for your kindness. It has been a very tough legislature, at some frustrating times - as an example when we approved things here and the government did not put them into action - but also with unforgettable moments, such as when democracy and the Constitution allowed Pedro Sánchez to change the reality and destiny of this country. With the passion that I have always put on you and with the mistakes that have been made, I wish you all and this House every success; I hope that we can build above that rift, that nothing adds up, and that in future legislatures you will see that agreement for science, among so many others... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u33	Your Honor, your time is up. Thank you so much. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the end of the parliamentary term and it is an emotional day, but we will try to include emotion in the time we have on the agenda. I'm telling you because, as you know, we have limited time. I'd love for all of you to talk for hours in a row, but I have to manage time, and when someone almost doubles it, I have to say it. Thank you so much for your understanding also on the last day. [[Applauds]] Mr Píriz Maya has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u34	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I open quotes: 34% of its legislative decisions have been made by decree-law, making a figure foreseen for exceptional circumstances in the ordinary form of legislation, stealing from the General Courts its function. I intend to limit the use of the decree-law. I close quotes. The phrase is not mine, no, I don't write Adamist best sellers. The phrase is by Pedro Sánchez, in 2015, addressed to Mariano Rajoy. And I say well, the phrase is from Pedro Sánchez, because the government action of President Pedro Sánchez has shown that he was lying, that he was doing it without indecent, that in his government action almost one hundred percent of his legislative decisions have come to this House in the form of a decree-law. Do you know how many? Twenty-eight, in eight months, twenty-eight. And although he presumes at his meeting in Moncloa, no law has been passed in this House initiated during his term of office. Minister, you've had nine months to legislate, to make instructions, to rule. What is the extreme urgency of this decree-law? The elections? No one believes them anymore, no one believes his party, which he became a minister, the Socialist Party; the urgency of today is the same as it was eight months ago. Minister, with this decree they make an ode to plagiarism. You and we know that these approved standards were found prepared when they arrived at the ministry. In any case, plagiarisming what is well done is not negative, do not take it wrong, because you are only right in two situations, when you rectify and when you plagiarism measures of the People's Party, such as the rise to civil servants, the rise of pensions or like this, which attacks some of the important problems of R & D+i. I will start with a basic problem of your proposal. Those who have spent many hours in the Committee on Budgets have heard their spokesmen repeat to the satisfaction that they would never accept a general state budget with less than 2.5% of R & D+i expenditure on the budgeted total. Then, when they govern, they do what they do; this Parliament has returned their accounts to them, which barely had 1.8%. Is that your R+D+i bet? Was that your commitment to universities, research centres and companies? What are we left with, 1.8% or 2.5%? And with regard to the actual decree they bring today to validate, we have to tell them that it seems totally inadequate to us. They started from a virtually closed document and have not been able to move further, to put solutions to the problems of R & D+i in Spain. We find it insufficient because it does not address the main challenges that are needed in terms of funding and at the regulatory level to place Spanish research at the level of the main European countries. And that is that it is not just a criticism of this group, of my group, but that the Conference of Rectors of the Spanish Universities itself, the CRUE, considers the decree to be insufficient for similar reasons. The decree makes progress on issues that were needed, that were necessary and basic to be able to give air to our science, to be able to help our science and technology parks or our scientists. Thus, with regard to the recruitment of labour personnel in IPOs, the centralized financial management of IPOs other than State agencies, internal control, authorized credit operations or those relating to university loans or support to scientific and technological parks, it seems to us necessary measures which, as I say, were on the agenda of the previous Government and which I have found prepared when they arrived. You come with this decree to try to solve the problem of scientific and technological parks, in which some of us have our work, but you generated the problem; this debt was generated with you in the government, with you, and you come with this decree to solve the problem insufficiently and with patches. They assume their responsibility and give a solution to the situation they generated in many scientific and technological parks throughout Spain, putting thousands of jobs in our country at risk; they assume their responsibility at once. In this decree they do not propose a strategic plan for Spanish science, they do not propose measures in the medium or long term, but they bring a real decree only to solve the short term. Their ambition in R & D+i is nothing more than a rhetorical discourse in support of a sector, while they bring to this house a tax on technology that certainly does not help anything in attracting technology companies to our country. With one hand they bring us a decree that helps to innovate but with the other they try to assault companies in the sector that grow and generate research, innovation and quality employment. Just as it is fairer for the prospects of all Spaniards than those who have a flat - all - pay for it the taxes they owe before they drive away companies with taxes. Better to set an example, Minister. Minister, in a press interview a very nice headline appeared: Science needs a loyal ten-year deal. I ask him: loyal to whom, with us? Have you called this group to talk about the future of our science? Did you even call us to talk about this decree? I'm telling you, I'm telling everyone, no. The policy that can be summed up in a headline says little about who practices it, but much less about who believes in it. If during these months I had wanted to treat science as it deserves, as a matter of state I would have done, I would have called us and there we would have been - I am finishing, Madam President - because we believe in the science of this country, because we believe in our researchers and our science system, because if they were not so good, our country would not have had the returns in Horizon 2020 that it is having. If our science were not excellent, it could not compete at this level in Europe. That is why we need to focus on measures to simplify the bureaucracy. Let researchers investigate, let companies grow, don't put administrative or ideological barriers, don't qualify left-wing or right-wing technologies, and don't make our innovators and startups have to leave the country for their ineptitude. They support science, they support innovation, they support research and there they will always find us, they will find my group, as in this decree, that although insufficient and although it comes late and bad, we will support for responsibility with the sector. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u35	Thank you very much. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 4/2019, OF 22 FEBRUARY, OF THE SPECIAL REGIME OF THE BALEAR ISLANDS. [[File number 130/000059]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u36	We continue with the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 4/2019, of 22 February, of the special regime of the Balearic Islands. To present the royal decree-law, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u37	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating and wishing a happy Andalusian Day to all Andalusians and Andalusians. [[Applauds]] President Armengol, Mrs Cladera, ladies and gentlemen, last Friday the Government responded to a long and widespread demand from all the political forces of the Community of the Balearic Islands: the development and effective implementation of a special regime which until then was essentially limited to an institutional framework of cooperation, practices and reduced results. The Government's response is contained in two normative texts: a preliminary draft law on tax subsidies, with which the Government is absolutely committed and which, on account of the subject matter, had to have the form and be included in a draft law, and a decree-law regulating in general the special regime and the concrete elements in measures essentially relating to energy, transport and State investment policy. The Government requests from the House the validation of this decree-law. Special schemes derive from a specific basis, from a differential fact which occurs in the affected community and which requires and justifies such specific measures. But the definition of that basis is not a free decision of each Government or parliamentary majority, but is provided for in the Constitution or the corresponding statute of autonomy, in the rules that, in the words of the Constitutional Court, constitute our block of constitutionality. Only constitutional or statutory recognition requires and permits the existence of such a special regime, which is therefore one of the fundamental decisions of the constitutional framework of the autonomous State. This is precisely the case of insularity, which is recognized in article 138 of our Constitution. The object of the Royal Decree-Law is to introduce improvements in the regulation of the special regime of the Balearic Islands provided for in the sixth additional provision of the Organic Law on Reform of the Statute of Autonomous of the Balearic Islands that make it more effective and respond to the needs arising from the specific and differential fact of its insularity. The Decree-Law introduces improvements in transport, energy and state investments. Thus, in the area of energy, the Government must first promote electricity interconnection between islands and, secondly, the Government will plan and promote the implementation of a second electricity interconnection between the peninsula and the Balearic Islands, in order to deliver the whaler electric system to the peninsular electric system. The Government will also promote the technological replacement of electricity generation in Balearic Islands by renewable and low-emission sources, encouraging the installation of renewable energy for electricity production in Balearic Islands, for which the Decree-Law allows it to regulate a specific remunerative regime for new renewable facilities on the islands. The energy improvements are completed with the impulse of electrification of the ports of the islands to allow the electrical connection of ships during the docking period. This is, therefore, in all cases of forecasts clearly linked to the specific effects of insularity on an energy system based on interconnection, so that they fully respond to the specific situation of the Balearic Islands and to the purpose of responding to its harmful consequences with regard to the general situation in Spain. As regards transport, the improvements to the Decree-Law introduce, first of all, a system of subsidies on fares for the benefit of Spaniards and nationals of the rest of the European Union residing in the Balearic Islands; subsidies amounting to 75 % on the regular rate in air and maritime transport between the Autonomous Community of the Balearic Islands and the rest of the national territory, as well as on the regular rate in inter-island air transport and 50 % in the case of the regular rate in inter-island maritime transport. The Decree-Law also covers the transport of goods, establishing an annual appropriation in the State General Budgets to finance a system of compensation to reduce the actual cost of maritime and air transport of inter-island goods and between the Balearic Islands and the peninsula. This system shall reach at least 65 % of the average freight cost of transport for the export of products originating in the islands or which have undergone substantial processing in the Balearic Islands. In the field of transport, the Government will also establish measures to finance maritime transport between islands of waste generated in the Balearic Islands and a compensation mechanism will be established on the basis of the tonnage of waste transported. The improvements in transport are complemented by two additional forecasts: the declaration of the essential public service of public road passenger transport, which will allow State intervention in its financing, and a closing clause under which, for reasons of general interest, in order to improve and reinforce demand in the air and sea traffic of the Balearic Islands, reductions or subsidies may be introduced on port and airport charges compared to those in force at national level. The link between transport and insularity and its effects on the freedom of movement of citizens and the opportunities associated with it is indisputable, so once again the special regime in this area is adequate and proportionate. Finally, the reforms in the area of State investment are made concrete by the creation of a specific allocation for the Balearic Islands in the General State Budgets of each year as an insular factor, which will aim to correct the imbalances inherent in the territorial discontinuity inherent in the island and multi-insular fact, especially in the area of investment. For its allocation, which will determine the Budget Act, as I said, the level of the average annual investment of the State throughout the Spanish territory will be taken into account and the allocation will serve to finance actions in the territory of the autonomous community in areas particularly affected by the situation of insularity. The decree-law opens up a space of intense community participation in the decision on the allocation of these funds through the action of the Joint Commission provided for in its article 18, thus strengthening the decisions resulting from the agreement and the mechanisms of articulation between the various territorial levels. This participation that the Government has promoted in other areas, such as sectoral conferences or bilateral commissions with various autonomous communities, is a key element in the co-responsibility and momentum of the agreement in the face of conflict and the claim that have traditionally marked the autonomic model, especially when it is endowed with the guarantees of institutionalization introduced by this same decree-law. As I have just explained to you, the fundamental content of the Decree-Law is, therefore, the provision of a number of rules for regulation and intervention in economic activity, in fundamental aspects for the economy and essential services in the Balearic Community. It is essential that the reform avoids the generation of a phase of insecurity in the current framework and its stability, which, in our view, would have a negative impact on the actions of economic actors and, consequently, on the rights of the citizens who are linked to them. On the other hand, the adoption by decree-law has made it possible to maintain the certainty and stability of the regulatory framework, which is the factor of extraordinary and urgent need that requires the use of the decree-law. In summary, the new special regime has a content that is fully adequate to its connection with the island fact and is fully oriented towards guaranteeing in the archipelago the rights that already belong to the rest of Spanish citizens in the peninsular communities. In this sense, the new special regime presupposes a before and after that, with its effectiveness and extension to the field of state investment, it has come to solve a demand and work that had lasted for too many years and did not reach its purpose. A very important part of this success is attributable to the momentum of the Balearic Government, and in particular President Armengol, but above all to the consensus in the Balearic society, its institutions and political parties on the need for and implementation of this special regime. The building of an inclusive consensus in the autonomic sphere is always a fundamental element of encouragement for the acceptance of the proposals made and their assumption in the State and in the General Courts. This is also part of the constitutional loyalty that we all claim. For this reason, it seems to me to be a day of congratulations for the citizens of the Balearic Islands. President, I conclude by saying that it has been an honour to be part of this House, of the legislative branch and to be able to address all of you today as a member of the executive branch, always in defence of the state. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u38	Thank you very much. I welcome the President of the Balearic Islands Government. I had not been informed of his presence. You and your delegation are very welcome in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] Mrs Oramas González-Moro spoke in the position-setting session by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Canary Islands Coalition is not going to oppose the processing of this decree, but we are not going to be complicit in deceiving the Balearic people. Of course, we agree - and for this, Mrs Armengol and President Clavijo worked - that the governments of this country compensate for the insular fact, so that the State, in two communities such as the Canary Islands and the Balearic Islands, where there are neither AVE nor national roads, has an obligation to invest in connectivity. But I think you've entered into a false expectation. Canary Islands is an ultraperipheral region, as recognised in the European Treaty, and this implies remoteness and insularity, and every state aid, every fiscal measure has had to be negotiated for more than eight years, one by one, with Brussels. The REF could not be processed until it was authorised by Brussels. It is not the same as state aid and tax issues and, in fact, this was the case in the Basque case, because this was not taken into account. And suddenly a government tries to solve it by a decree, not by an organic law, which is above budgets, not by a constitutional issue. Canary Islands is in the European Treaty, the REF - the economic and fiscal regime - is in the Constitution and is an organic law involving budgets. By the way, Mr Sánchez's government, on the first change, on the month of the new REF, has gone through where it went, has violated it and has eliminated the things that were binding. That's why I'm telling Mrs. Armengol and the people of Baleares to be careful. A decree has no value, the budget is above a normal law. They have to process an organic law and an exact modification in what compensation for insularity means. Four requirements are needed to be an outermost region and to have State aid and a different tax system: remoteness, insularity, that the income of the community is below the European average and, finally, the unemployment rate. Balearic Islands is one of the richest communities, with the lowest unemployment rate; the Canary Islands has the highest unemployment rate and a low income rate. You are announcing fiscal measures in this preliminary draft law that are going to incite fighting and dumping companies. Aid to the film industry in the Canary Islands has just been loaded and approved for the Balearic Islands. What are you going to do? It is not about facing communities, it is about working together so that all the citizens and communities in this country are in the same conditions. We are going to abstain because we believe that aid for insularity is the rights of the Balearic people. But don't fool them, this is a song in the sun. We had him a lot tighter and they just broke him. And secondly, unless you have agreed everything with Brussels, this is a lie. I'm done, Madam President. We will continue to work with the Canary Islands to ensure that the governments of Spain, whether socialists or the PP, comply with the Canary Islands and the Balearic Islands, but of course we will not be complicit in an electoral campaign of this socialist government with the people of the Balearic Islands. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u40	Thank you very much. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u41	Thank you very much, Madam President. First, say hello to the president of the Island Council of Mallorca. Welcome. The voice of Compromís becomes today the voice of our friendly party, Més per Mallorca, the voice of many citizens of the islands. This decree aims to compensate for insularity, facilitate the competitiveness of the Balearic economy, ensure citizens' right to mobility and one thing that we are also waiting for the Valencians as water in May, which increases the investments of the State and improves funding. This decree, agreed by the Government of Change with the impulse and presence of Més per Mallorca, is a first step, a starting point to compensate for the isolation that insularity entails. It is late - although it is better late than never -, badly and in a hurry, the last day before the dissolution of Congress, and only meets a small part of the commitments that the various governments have made to the Balearic Islands. The different governments of the PP and the PSOE have not been able to understand in time the needs of the citizens of the islands. In any case, this decree improves the poor agreement made by Presidents Rajoy and Bauzá, and it is also better than the previous agreement that the last government of the People's Party offered to the Government of Change of the Balearic Islands. This royal decree contains the main requirements of Més per Mallorca: bilaterality between the two governments to decide on investments, creation of the insularity fund that guarantees investments, declaration of the road transport service, essential service to ensure investments and allow the development of infrastructures such as the train or metro of Palma, investment in renewable energy and the consolidation of the resident discount of 75% for the maritime and air transport of people, which until now depended on the general budgets of the State. Finally, I want to say that we will vote in favour. It is only now necessary for the next governments, whether of this sign or of another, to comply with whoever they are; to comply with both this special regime of the Balearic Islands and the Valencian Statute, which took seven years to pass in this House on investment. The Balearic Islands and the Autonomous Community of Valencia need it and it is of absolute justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u42	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Welcome, President of the Island Council of Mallorca. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that the Republicans of the Catalan countries have always defended, defended and aspired to build the different republics of our nation, the Catalan countries. We have always defended our construction on a basis that part of the rights that we have as a people and denouncing at the same time - perhaps this is one of the motives of our cause - the expoliation that has historically suffered the Balearic Islands together with the Valencià and Catalunya countries. An expoliation that has meant questioning the viability of territories that have been characterized throughout history by their entrepreneurial capacity and resistance to everything that involved a State that was unable to assimilate its multi-nationality. The case of the Balearic Islands, just as it happens with the Valencia Country and Catalonia, is the reflection of a historical reality; in addition to cultural oppression, there is a real fiscal and financial expoliation. However, we are people who base our political action on reality, and it is clear that after so many years of denunciation, this has not meant that we are not able to make this denunciation compatible with everything that belongs to the world of collaboration, to the world of dialogue and of the ability to generate consensus and complicity, in order and effect to make ever more viable a clumsy reality, which is the resistance from the Balearic Islands to their national reality and to the denunciation of their economic oppression, but at the same time, to collaborate with those Spanish progressive governments that manifest some interest - be it tactical or not, be it electoral or not - in solving the problems of citizenship, in this case the Balearic Islands. That is why we are going to vote affirmatively on this royal decree of special regime of the Balearic Islands. Moreover, because it is supported, worked, by political forces with which the republicanism of the Catalan countries maintains relations of complicity and friendship, for example, with MES. However, we are not fooled, there are fundamental issues that we have not been able to make viable, at least in the face of the resistance of the various governments, apart from their political colour. For example, the Spanish governments still do not agree to talk about the management of ports and airports; there are no tax measures that they do have, and with all legitimacy, for example, the Canary Islands, and there is still no provision for how and how the participation of local and autonomous authorities in state taxes is regulated, especially since - I believe - the cul de sac to which the current system has come is evident. Even so, we agree on bilaterality; to enter, at least, into a scenario in which bilaterality is present and not the imposition by the Spanish Government through the General Budgets of the State, that is to say, to assume this new debate of bilaterality that has already been contemplated in the amendment of the Statute of Autonomy of the Valencià Country. We agree that the creation of an investment guarantee fund is a step forward. We agree that, in addition, a certain universe is reached which affects terrestrial infrastructure, investments in renewables and the consolidation of discounts of 75% in all matters relating to air and sea transport. Apart from the debate of whether or not it is electoralist - frankly that is the anecdote and the category is that there is a certain advance - we in everything that we can collaborate for the benefit of the citizens of the Balearic Islands, will always be in it, even though it is evident that the branches will not prevent us from continuing to denounce the existence of a forest that is the forest of the fiscal expoliation suffered by the Balearic Islands by the Spanish State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u44	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Ten Oliver has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u45	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Batet, you said today is a day of congratulations for the Balearics. The truth is, I don't give credit. I don't know if these sheets are a real decree, they're a PNL, but what I see is smoke, it's ammunition for nationalists, it's urgency to mock democracy, it's electoralism, Mrs Batet. [[Applauds]] I'll explain myself, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Minister, we know and agree that insularity generates costs in the transport of people and goods, even in the production of energy. It is true that these costs directly affect productivity and the cost of living and, moreover, this is reflected in article 138 of the Constitution, which recognizes this insular fact as something that must be taken into account to ensure that economic balance and to give effect to that principle of solidarity. Thus came the original REB, which is Law 30/1998. But it was so, in a mere declaration of intent. This REB collected textually: it will be enhanced, a plan will be drawn up, a mixed commission will be set up... The problem is that these statements are intentions; they are vague; they act as a framework of general and indefinite principles. They are not fulfilled, they generate frustration and, in addition, they become the fuel of nationalist discourse; yes, nationalist. Because, what good is it if they are not implemented or there is no budget allocation? We did; in the 2017 and 2018 General State Budgets we enabled a 75 % discount item for residents. By the way, you PSOE voted against, I remind you. What brings us here, really, after twenty years? They're bringing us back the 1998 REB. So, what do we do? With regard to the model of autonomous financing, with that reform, Compromís was very happy with this REF. What do we do, forget? They bring us this REB on the last day of sessions, I don't know, in case it hangs this. It gives the feeling that this is a damaged commodity, but damaged because in the explanatory statement, first, it is shot from a university report. I don't know, if he gets the Turnitin, they even report him for plagiarism. [[Applauds]] This royal decree-law consists of three titles. Title I, on energy and Title II, on transport but we insist on the new mistakes: The Government will promote, the Government will carry out, plan, encourage, can establish..., but it does not contain a single concrete and legally binding measure. Title III, moreover, does so with an investment reserve, but in an absolutely vague way. This is reminding me of the same modification of other statutes of autonomy, which want to force the State, the Government to make such investments, but if the Constitutional Court has already said so: the Government cannot be forced through this reform of the statutes, for it is absolutely useless. I'm done, Mrs. Batet. I believe that this is a tomato of hair, of course, to this dear community of Balearics. You have brought us here the old REB, you know that even before Sanchez, you were negotiating something much better than this. We cannot support this damaged commodity, and we are going to fight for a real REB, harmonising Europe, and an economic and fiscal regime that has concrete measures that are reflected in budget lines. Honestly, what they're asking of us is a real huddle, it's embarrassing. They bring us ammunition for nationalism; it is another humiliating gesture, it is another rapporteur; yes, another rapporteur. Are you going to consent to another assignment to nationalisms? Sincerely, Mrs Batet, I hope that on April 28 we will see each other again and Citizens can fix this authentic chaff. This is broken goods. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u46	Mr Yllanes Suárez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u47	Thank you, President. Very Honourable President of the Balearic Islands, very Honourable President of the Island Council of Mallorca, Honourable Consellera d'Hisenda i Administracions Publiques. Firstly, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate the citizens of the Balearic Islands because tomorrow is Community Day on 1 March, therefore, in advance. I would also like to congratulate all Andalusians and Andalusians who are celebrating Community Day today. Thousands of them helped make the Balearic Islands the reality we have today. We come here today, Minister, to improve that reality. We have come to improve this reality by developing the sixth additional provision of the autonomous status of the Balearic Islands by collecting, after all, the efforts that have been made for decades by the social and economic actors of the islands and also by collecting what is a unanimous demand of the civil society of the Balearic Islands: that the importance be finally taken into account and that the damage caused by insularity be eliminated. In addition, we also comply with article 138.1 of the Constitution, which speaks of solidarity and equality between territories. In Balearic Islands we have always been the most supportive and we want to remain supportive, but we also want to be able to meet our own needs and, therefore, we believe that it is extremely important that this article be developed. The people of Mallorca, Menorca, Ibiza and Formentera have taken a lot and today what we are taking is the first step to consolidate that situation. By the way, I am surprised that on the Citizens' bench there is not the deputy representing the Balearic Islands; this is the respect you have for the autonomous community. [[Applauds]] The Decree-Law is addressed in a number of measures relating to energy model, transport of persons and goods, to industrialization through the development of the nautical sector of the Balearic Islands and also with regard to financing. As far as industrialization is concerned, I will say briefly that diversifying the economy is important because we are too dependent on tourism and, therefore, this future bet must be made. With regard to the energy model, the promotion of renewable energy is a bet that has already been made with the Climate Change and Energy Transition Act in the Parliament of Les Illes Balears and we want to continue to make that bet; in addition, we want to democratize energy through the direct participation of consumers in generation, management and distribution. We want fewer polluting cars and more solar plates in Baleares. We want to protect the territory because it is a fragile territory. In the transport of people and goods, we will start with the end of one of the most obvious aggravations arising from insularity. It is true that there are formulas that establish the bonus on the final price, and look, this weekend Balearics has become a cage for many of those who live there, who have not had the opportunity to go out to enjoy three days of leisure outside the territory in which they usually make their daily lives. It is important that this also has avenues of solution through what will have to continue to be negotiated on this special regime of Les Illes Balears. We believe it is very important that this decree-law shields the discount on the transport of people and goods. Without a doubt, it is a step that the Balearic society was demanding a long time ago and that is very important. Finally, it is true that with years of delay, but investment in values will be at least in the average values of all the autonomous communities. We insist, we have contributed a lot, we have received less in return and, therefore, it is important that we have this possibility. It is true that in the objectives of this funding or of this factor of insularity we miss a very important issue, that of housing. This is a matter of utmost concern to the citizens of Les Illes Balears. Today the news was that the mortgage-real estate market is moving thanks to those who have medium and high incomes because to access a decent home right now in the Balearic Islands you have to belong to that population group, which is terrible. We bet on the future; which, as we see, does not make the Citizen Parliamentary Group which, by the way, has not expressed what the intention of its vote can be. We would have been interested to know if they were going to vote against this special regime of the Balearic Islands. We will continue to negotiate with all our energies both in the Balearic Islands, where we intend to govern in the autonomous community as well as with the Government that is here in Madrid, even if that Government is formed by forces that abhor the regime of the autonomous communities and which, moreover, do not have the least degree of modesty in negotiating with parties for which it would be a great pleasure to end the autonomous communities. The bet is very clear. We begin a work to maintain the beauty of our autonomous community and the happiness of those who live in it; beauty and happiness: two beautiful words to finish the parliamentary work in Congress and, starting tomorrow, start the work, and very serious, in the autonomous community, because now the challenge is in Balearic Islands. Thank you very much, Madam President, for everything in this Parliament. Thank you all very much. Good morning to you all. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u48	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Hernanz Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Many honourable President of Les Illes Balears, Mrs Armengold, Mrs Cladera and the rest of the Balearic delegation who accompany us in the rostrum, are welcome. Allow me, first of all, to express my deep honour at being in this rostrum today on behalf of the Socialist Party asking the rest of the House to support the ratification of our new REB. I would like to make a point to the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Today the representative for the Balearics of Citizens has not come to this rostrum and is not in this House, because the position his group has expressed is indefensible to the citizens of the Balearics. That is why you have fled this debate, this rostrum and this House. [[Applauds]] They'll have to face the Baleares. If today is already full of meaning for all of us because it is the last day of the legislature, I can assure you that it is much more so for the deputies, the deputies and the citizens in general of the Balearic Islands, that tomorrow we are going to celebrate the Day of Les Illes Balears; and we are going to do so having adopted today our new special regime, which means nothing more than the achievement of a collective success of the Balearic society. It is a collective success, because it is the result of a collective work of the society of our islands, which has been able to unite and build a political and social consensus around the need to have a series of measures that serve to solve the disadvantages that the insular fact generates us, and thus to equal us in rights and opportunities to the citizens of the rest of the State. But today I also want to highlight what political success has in this agreement in the best sense of the term political, which is that sense that we should never forget those who are dedicated to representing our fellow citizens and that is nothing other than working to give solutions to problems. That is essentially what this agreement between the Government of Spain and the Government of the Balearic Islands means, which is reflected today in the adoption of this royal decreeley. As a citizen of the Balearic Islands I welcome and would like to thank the intense effort of work, dialogue and negotiation carried out by both the Government of Spain and the Government of the Balearic Islands headed by our president, Mrs Armengol, but I also do not want to fail to mention Constellera Cladera, Constellera Costa and all the team that has been working very hard to achieve this agreement. Today it crystallizes in this agreement that the whales have been waiting for two decades and that it is nothing other than the express recognition of something that we already know: that as a result of insularity, life in the Balearic Islands is more expensive, producing is more expensive, investing is more difficult, creating employment in our new sectors is more complicated and lacks resources to improve our essential infrastructures. In addition to expressly recognizing the realities of our social development and the competitive advancement of our economy, this REB equips us with the tools necessary to combat every difficulty added by insularity with concrete, applicable and quantified measures and does so on four fundamental axes - investments, energy, transport and fiscal measures - in which I will not stop because it has been done both by the minister and the spokesman who preceded me in the use of the word. In any case, there is no doubt that there will be a before and after for the citizens of the Balearic Islands after the approval of our special regime. It is a people's REB designed to reduce the cost of living on our islands, to generate employment in traditional and emerging sectors, to facilitate the development and modernization of businesses in all sectors, to attract productive investment to the islands and to strengthen essential services that will improve mobility and protect our environmental quality. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a historic day for the Balearics. We have advanced in all that we have been claiming in the last twenty years. It is also a golden brooch for this legislature, the legislature of promises fulfilled. Today, the government of Pedro Sánchez fulfils its commitment to the citizens of the Balearic Islands and has done so in record time of eight months. In fulfilling his commitment to the citizens of Baleares, President Sánchez also fulfils his commitment to defending the rights and equality of all Spanish citizens, live where they live. It is also a golden brooch for the legislature that ends President Armengol, which culminates four years of tireless work and improvement of the living conditions of the citizens of the Balearic Islands, fighting for our interests within and outside our community. A great tandem for Balearics, a great day for our community and an important day for all of us. It was an honor. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u50	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Marí Bosó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President of the Government of the Balearic Islands and members of the Government, Mr President of the Council of Mallorca, ladies and gentlemen, in this very democratic frenzy of the royal decree-laws in which Mr Sánchez's Government has become, we are now debating the height of frenzy, the height of the legislation of extraordinary and urgent necessity. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, the culmination of the royal decrees-laws is that their content is exclusively desideratums and measures that are already in force, as is the case with this Royal Decree-law on the Special Regime of the Balearic Islands. Today Mrs Batet brings us the obvious made royal decree-law, and solemnizing the obvious says nothing good about who does it. This royal decree-law which solemnizes obviations and norms that are already in force does not say anything good, not much in favour of you or Mrs Armengol, President of Balearic Islands, who after four years of lamentation and pretending to be very vindictive, has accepted everything that the Government of the People's Party had already approved and is in force; as the only innovation has been allowed to glue something in the matter of investments that, ladies and gentlemen, leaves the citizens of Balearic Islands in worse condition than the provisions of the ninth transitional provision of the Statut d'Autônomie. This royal decree-law of repetition repeats and repeats: repeats the bonus of 65 % in the transport of goods; 75 % in the transport of passengers. This has been in force since 2017 and 2018, because do you know who approved it, Mrs Batet? It was approved by the People's Party Government. [[Applauds]] It was done by the People's Party in the Government, and all this, as budget laws say, on a permanent basis. But I, who have intellectual respect for you, Mrs. Batet, know that you already know this. So, if you already know this, even though you have deceived Mrs Armengol, you will not have the dare to pretend to deceive the citizens of the Balearic Islands. Therefore, it only occurs to me that you bring a royal decree-law with this which is already achieved by the government of Mariano Rajoy and which, therefore, is already in force, because you have the bad conscience of having voted against the same at your time and, now, before the elections, you have the extraordinary and urgent need to vote in favour of things that are already in force. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not said by the Group of the European People's Party, which is also said by Mrs Batet herself in the report on the regulatory impact when it comes to subsidies for goods and transport, which do not involve any variation, or with regard to all the energy words contained in the Royal Decree-Law, measures of a programmatic nature, a simple will... Come on, you make, Mrs. Batet, your comrade Armengol a father's suit and my very lord. But investment is even worse: it does not speak of the average annual investment of territorialized investment; it speaks of a corrective mechanism that will be based on the average annual investment, of the years we determine. That is, neither the annual average nor the average of the average nor the average of anything. Moreover, that is only the basis, because we can enter all the magnitudes and variables that come to mind. That is, neither investment nor annual average of investment nor average of the average. Besides, you can compute and add everything you want. Ladies and gentlemen, this royal decree-law is nothing at all, it is insubstantial, it is inconsequential and contains things that are already in force, so that for the People's Group, which we adopted these measures in 2017 and 2018, it does not involve any effort and, however, it is a shame for those who with sectarianism opposed at the time. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, these eight months of Mr Sánchez's government have been empty for the Spanish. Everything has turned out to be hollow, unsolved, as this royal decree-law demonstrates from what is already in force, this royal decree-law from the repetitions of what has already been approved by the government of Mariano Rajoy and yet we have had to endure for you to talk to us about dialogue and politics. Dialogue, ladies and gentlemen, is not to devote itself to approving nothing more or less than twenty-nine royal decree-laws in eight months and those who come to the transfer of power; and politics, ladies and gentlemen, is not the short-lived regatta of this royal decree-law of the last minute to stay well unsolved. The policy is to be ambitious in solving citizens' problems and to be committed, to be pragmatic as far as possible and to recognize some reason in others because it benefits citizens. Politics is to have the courage to transcend party interests and take a step forward, which you did not do in 2015 when the People's Party government first adopted a special tax regime. We, the government of the People's Party, making good policy, approved the first economic regime in the Balearic Islands in 1998 - I conclude, Madam President - and you did not support it. We, doing good policy, which solves the problems, in 2015 adopted a special tax regime for the Balearic Islands and you returned it. And today, once again in the People's Parliamentary Group, we are committed to the citizens of Ibiza, Formentera, Minorca and Majorca for now in the Government of the nation and in the Government of the Balearic Islands to improve this special regime. This is political, Mrs Batet, and ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, it is a shame that you do not understand. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u52	Thank you very much. Thank you very much to the President of the Balearic Islands for accompanying us and to the entire delegation.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the spokesmen of the parliamentary groups, this Presidency submits to the plenary of the House the exclusion of item 41 of the agenda, corresponding to the agreement on direct and single reading of the proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 5/1985 of 19 June of the General Electoral Regime, for the regulation of the exercise of voting by Spaniards living abroad. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The exclusion of the reference point is therefore approved on the agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u54	The item on the agenda for the debate on all international conventions has fallen due to the withdrawal of the only proposal with an amendment to the whole proposal.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u55	And now, ladies and gentlemen, we turn to the item on the agenda for the debate on the whole of the bill amending the consolidated text of the Law on Property Transfers and Documented Legal Acts, approved by the Royal Legislative Decree 1/1993 of 24 September, from the Royal Decree-Law 17/2018 of 8 November. An amendment to the whole alternative text has been tabled. For the defence of this amendment, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Palmer Tous.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u56	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary an initiative presented by my group, the People's Parliamentary Group, to resolve a problem which has arisen recently and which affects many Spaniards. And we do it because Dr. Sánchez's government, with its usual style, with media decisions that are impactful or magical outings that give rise to high expectations, ultimately never solves anything. I will try to explain to myself what is the problem that brings us here today because, as described, one could think of many situations in the last few months in which this has been the scene, a scenario in which the substance of the actions and decision-making has not been the solution of the problems of the Spanish citizens but the maintenance at all costs of a government that came from the hands of independenceists, populists and philotetras, a government that came not only from his hand but also remained in his hands for that obsession to remain in the chair, to endure. And it is that the transfers to its members of the motion of censure have been continuous and on too many occasions brazen: the rapprochement to Catalan prisons, the elimination of the crime of rebellion, the negotiation of budgets with alleged criminals in prison, the non-acceptance of the amendment of the Law on Pardons while different socialist political leaders issued messages of their possible concession in the event of conviction, the cessation of the head of the State's Lawyer or the recent refusal to vote in favour of criminalizing the convening of illegal referendums. As you see, there are multiple, excessive examples of surrenders to independence, although it was the last surrender that filled the glass of patience of many with the acceptance of the figure of the mediator, or rapporteur - according to the vice president - or secretary, or scribe, or whatever they want to call it. A historic demand for secessionism that this Government succumbed to, although then I would like to mask it. A transfer, the latter, which provoked the strongest rejection on the part of all those who believe in the Constitution and who defend the unity of Spain and the sovereignty of the Spanish people, values which, believe me, also protect many in the Socialist Party, as has already been demonstrated in the Andalusian elections and will again be demonstrated on 28 April. [[Applauds]] A scenario, in short, in which the maintenance of the Government was paramount. Remember the spokesman's phrase with that surprising and disappointing statement that the duty of any Government is to maintain itself. A scenario, he said, in which the maintenance of the Government was paramount rather than making decisions that would solve problems, such as avoiding the economic slowdown that we are experiencing, to set just one example. Finally, although, as honourable Members see, I could devote my speech to highlighting many occasions in which there was a serious deterioration without the Government's reaction to mitigate it, today I must focus on a very specific economic aspect that has greatly worried Spanish society in recent months, such as the tax on property transfers and documented legal acts linked to the signing of a mortgage. Given the lack of clarity in the 1993 law regarding the taxable person of the tax, the Supreme Court in its doctrine had traditionally held that the taxable person was the acquirer of the property, which led the borrower, the customer, to assume the costs of the tax costs associated with the signature of the mortgage. On 16 October, however, the Third Chamber of the Dispute Tribunal amended its previous case law and concluded in its decision that it is not the borrower, i.e. the citizen, the taxable person of the tax, but the lender, the entity providing the corresponding sum, i.e. the financial entity. This decision was thus a radical turning point in the case law established in many years of practice. In fact, the unexpected situation led the Third Chamber, of the Dispute-Administrative Court, of the Supreme Court to a review of the above-mentioned judgment, agreeing, after two days of deliberation, to return to the traditional initial criterion, according to which the taxable person of the tax on mortgage loans is the borrower, the citizen, and not the bank. This controversial decision placed us in one of those scenarios that I mentioned earlier, one in which very grandiose decisions are made by the Sánchez government but which ultimately solve nothing. And we all remember the president in one of his star performances, when he appeared at an emergency press conference in which he informed all the Spaniards that they would correct such injustice and affirmed that the Spaniards would never pay the mortgage tax again, the banks would do so. Do you remember? Well, at that moment and even now when I remember it, I can't help but think of that memorable scene of what the wind took in which Scarlett O'Hara, with a handful of dirt in her hands, shouts that of: I swear I will never go hungry again! Don't they? What do you want me to tell you!, actually it was; in that case it was a point for Ivan Redondo even if it was plagiarizing the scene of a mythical film, but effective it was rather little, at least in terms of avoiding, as Dr Sánchez claimed, that Spanish citizens would end up paying that tax. [[Applauds]] For those of us who believe that Sánchez has been the worst president of democracy, I therefore point out. And it is that, ladies and gentlemen, when this measure was announced, no one thought that the bank was going to bear that cost, it was known that the customer would end up paying it, to think otherwise can only be due to two things: one, to a huge naivety, which is bad, or two, to have a bad intention to deceive the citizens, which is worse. And here I would ask you, gentlemen of the PSOE: which of these two reasons do you systematically reject our proposal? It's just that the president himself didn't believe what he was saying, because right after the big announcement he commented that he expected and trusted the banks' responsibility so that the tax wouldn't fall on the citizens. Also the minister herself in her defense of the royal decree-law here appealed to that responsibility. Little faith I believe they would have in what they were proposing. In short, it was clear that financial institutions would end up impacting the tax by increasing mortgages, and in fact it has. In the last 12 months, the EAR, weighted average rate of all the Spanish banks' terms, has been higher than that of the eurozone, the latest data offered by the Bank Client portal of the Banco de España shows that Spanish mortgages are paid with an EAR of 2.21 compared to the 2.09 of the eurozone. On the other hand, the estimates made by professionals in the sector said that there would be increases of the rates by 5%, which would increase the differential on the euribor by about 10 basis points. Casuality, just the differential that the Client Banking portal of the Banco de España that I have just mentioned to you speaks of. In short, the reality shows us that the result of the Sánchez government's magic proposal is an increase in the mortgage for the citizen greater than it was supposed to pay the tribute, because the bonuses that were established in the autonomous communities are also lost. In this case, therefore, we come back to a new lie from the Sánchez government. Indeed, Mr Sánchez lied when he said that this tax would not be paid again by citizens, paid and done more than before. It is a new lie, yes, and there are more than copies sold from the book whose author claims to be Pedro Sánchez; and here I am not going to enter into an exhaustive account of all the lies and deceptions of the nine months that we have been in because there really is no time for it. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Government states that the measure adopted with regard to the tax on transmissions and documented legal acts is so that it is not assumed by citizens but by banking, the rich. But, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Montero in her time as Finance Advisor in Andalusia raised this tax no more and no less than 50%, and other socialist autonomic governments such as Valencia, with the approval of Compromís, or Aragon, with the enthusiastic support of Podemos, increased it considerably, knowing for sure all of them would pay for it by the citizens. What does that mean, that when they did, they thought they were rich mortgage clients? Or that they just cheat and cheat like they usually do? Ladies and gentlemen, the only measure that actually involves a change for the customer and ensures that the citizen does not assume the cost, without traps, is to abolish the tax, and therefore from the People's Party we make this proposal, convinced that it is the best solution for the Spanish citizens. It is a proposal that offers a real solution and not effective artifacts that are nothing but deceptions to the citizenry. In particular, our party proposes to amend article 31 to provide that, in the case of notarial documents on mortgage-guarantee loans relating to the purchase of a first-house property, the variable fee will be zero. I would like to highlight at this point a detail of the proposal that I have just described: we focus on operations that affect the acquisition of the first home, an operation that essentially benefits families, young people who, after much effort and with illusion, can finally buy their first home. [[Applauds]] The abolition of the tax, ladies and gentlemen, is for them, do not forget it when they vote today. Finally, in conclusion, I would like to point out that this proposal to abolish the tax on documented legal acts for the purchase of first homes is part of the package of simplification and tax reduction measures to which we have committed ourselves in the People's Party and which we have committed whenever we have been able to. It is part of a fiscal revolution that includes measures such as the abolition of inheritance and donation tax, the reduction of the IRPF below 40% or the reduction of corporate tax. And it is that, ladies and gentlemen, we remain committed to the fact that this is the dynamic that we must practice. We really believe that lowering taxes is good and we do so as soon as the situation allows us. You, on the other hand, remain committed to raising taxes whenever you can and everywhere, I refer to the facts, I believe it is part of your DNA. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, if you do not vote in favour of this amendment, you will be adopting a new Sánchez tax which all young people and families, when making the most important economic decision of their lives, will remember. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u57	Thank you very much, Mrs. Palmer Tous. It has called for the use of the turn against the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr Hurtado Zurera has the floor on behalf of that group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u58	Good morning. Thank you, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. As you know, I am a Cordoba deputy, I am an Andalusian deputy and today is a very special day for Andalusia, today, 28 February, the thirty-nine years of a historic referendum, which was the Andalusian referendum, in which the Andalusian people demonstrated that with their dignity it is not played out and, of course, it meant a huge revulsive for the well-being of my land. Therefore, today I want to pay tribute to my land, to my people, to my culture; a tribute after thirty-nine years, to a long way, but a long way that we will follow because it is necessary to continue to improve Andalusia. I also want to send a message of hope to the Andalusian people and of confidence to all of Spain and even to Europe because something very special has happened in Andalusia that concerns us all and is that in Andalusia fascism has awakened because in Andalusia right now the two right-wings have allied with the xenophobic, homophobic, sexist and fascist far-right. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] And it is precisely that far-right party that supports the pillars of San Telmo right now. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] And if the PSOE, the Socialists, have been decisive in these thirty-nine years to transform Andalusia, to make it a reference in equality, in well-being, in respect, in progress, in research, in export, obviously the Socialists too will be especially belligerent so that there is not a step backwards in Andalusia in rights, in freedoms or in well-being. [[Applauds]] We're going to be especially belligerent. That is why I am launching a message of trust and hope because of course there we are going to be and we are going to be as we have always been the socialists, putting things in place and that of course that black eagle does not lift the flight in Andalusia or the rest of Spain. That's our main goal right now. [[Applauds]] And we're going to speak plainly to Mrs. Speaker of the People's Party. [[Rumors.]] Good thing this is over, 'cause you're breaking up. I'm telling you, it's a complete diversion The spokesman for the People's Party comes here saying they're going to make a fiscal revolution in Spain. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] A tax revolution? What fiscal revolution? What things happen to you! What revolution, what is that, when we talk about fiscal harmonisation in Europe, of uniting the whole of Europe in the fiscal sphere? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u60	What is the fiscal revolution?, that occurrence, because it is a real occurrence. People have to be clear. What you want is to remove from the bank the only tax that pays, a tax that we socialists have put since November 8th and you want to remove it, you want to remove it from the banking system, that does not pay taxes, that has all the deductions in the world. [[rumors]] [[Mr Martín-Toledano Suárez signs the speaker to lower the tone of voice]] You're not gonna tell me how I'm gonna talk in this rostrum. [[Applauds]] In this country, which we all contribute to an added value, pay the tax or pass on VAT, the only activity that does not pass on any kind of tax is banking. For we believe that banks have to pay taxes and that is a tax that the bank has to pay because three Supreme Court rulings have said so, because Article 68.2 of the Rules of Procedure was illegal and, of course, because it is of justice. So make it clear: we want to remove the tax on the bank, the only one that pays, and they have also refused another tax that we Socialists have proposed, which is that of financial transactions. Make it clear, because you are the defenders of the bank, the great allies of the bank with the right, with Citizens and with the other who can come. You are the great allies of the bank. Unmask yourselves, make it clear, have the dignity to call things by their name and do not come with euphemisms, with lies, with half truths. We want the bank to pay taxes, to pay a tax that citizens, bank customers, had been paying; a tax that collected around EUR 2 billion to pay the social policies of the autonomous communities. You want to benefit the bank in order to harm the autonomous communities, as you have so many times done and you reiterate it permanently. You have established an immediate information system that has meant removing 25 billion from the autonomous communities. You have refused a path of stability that meant more public spending on social policies, 25 billion for the autonomous communities. You are able to undermine the normative capacity that cost so much work in this country to give to the autonomous communities. Well, the autonomous communities now no longer have regulatory capacity in the tax by a People's Party bill that will support Citizens. Therefore, you make it clear: you will benefit the bank in order to undermine social policies and in order to harm the autonomous communities. We socialists do not say what you say: this is going to impact banking on customers. That's not true. [[Mr. De Olano Vela: No, what's going on!]] That's not true, and I'm going to explain it to you. The only way to pass on something to customers is through interest or bank fees and since 8 November here interest rates have dropped and bank fees have dropped. It's not true what you're saying, it's a lie. [[Applauds]] What would that loss go to? What would those EUR 2 billion go to? They'd go for the profits, the huge profit margin the bank has. The last data we have, 2017, is 17 billion euros of profit from the bank, then they have room to cover it. In addition, we are in a very competitive banking system so, on the basis that it brings them, they cannot transfer it to the customers. And, for more inri, the PSOE, the socialist government has committed itself to creating an authority that will ensure the protection of the banking client. We are putting in place the right limbs for the bank to contribute as it should, and not as you do, always defending it. By the way, who were the ones who gave the Spanish banking system 69 billion from the taxpayer? Evidently the People's Party, with a minister, De Guindos, who said it wouldn't cost the taxpayer a penny. So nothing, about EUR 68 billion, just the same as you pulled out of the Social Security Reserve Fund, just the same. Always with the same policy of benefit and benefit. And then - which is a real misconception - when you talk about that tax revolution you're talking about dismantling this country's tax system. You know what they say? Do you know that we are in a country that only has more fiscal pressure than Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Bulgaria and Ireland? That we have a tax pressure of 37.9% when the average tax pressure in Europe is 44%, seven points more? What do you want, take it off? And then they give a very Kafkian argument and they say: No, but it is that in other countries there is no such tax. Where doesn't it exist? In the United Kingdom, which has a tax burden of 39%. Where doesn't it exist? In the Netherlands, which has a tax burden of 42%. Where doesn't it exist? In Germany, which has a tax burden of 45%. What doesn't go in tears goes in sighs. They obviously have a much higher VAT so that they can support the state, so that they can open the doors of public administrations. We are totally against it and call for it to be known to the citizens, because we are all entitled to present what we think, but there is formal legitimacy and social legitimacy. Social legitimacy means the acceptance of the citizens of proposals that we make here. You're socially delegitimized. Ask your voters if they agree to take the tax off the bank. I'm sure they're going to answer no, because we all know the behavior the bank has had in recent years. We all know the enormous contribution we have had to make from our pockets, and they obviously have an obligation to contribute to maintaining this social state. I conclude by saying: Long live Andalucia free! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u61	Thank you very much, Mr Hurtado Zurera. Mrs Palmer Tous has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u62	Thank you, President. Mr. Hurtado, not by yelling any more you are more right, rather the contrary. [[Applauds]] The fiscal revolution, which I see has not been made clear to you, is to lower taxes. [[Mr. Hurtado Zurera: As in Andalusia]] I understand that you do not understand it, because you do not, but we understand it perfectly and so do the citizens, and it will be reflected next April 28th, I am convinced. [[Applauds]] We remain convinced that this proposal we are making, the proposal of the People's Party, gives a real solution to the problem. We really solve the problem to the citizens because the type is zero in the acquisition of the first home. As I say, this affects young people and families, who every time they have to pay that tax they will remember a lot about you and this day. Your solution, as I said before, does not work, it is not a solution is an effective artifice. And, Mr Hurtado, you did not answer me if you are naive or know that you are cheating on this tax, because Mrs Montero raised it and knew perfectly well that the bank did not pay it, that the Andalusians paid it. As for your opinion of the bank, you said we were in the Champion League, remember? And then we had to face the situation, as always. You put in 30 billion that didn't do any good. We arrived and took all the decisions to restructure the financial system that were essential to make us have a healthy financial system and that was key to the Spanish economic growth in recent years. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hurtado, in our group we are convinced that lowering taxes is good and that lowering taxes can increase social spending, as we have shown many times, many years, in many budgets. Again, I refer to the facts. The welfare state can be maintained, and even improved, by the very economic growth that we generate. Lowering taxes generates resources and therefore economic growth. But, really, what there is never enough money for is to pay for the election campaign in which President Sánchez has been installed since June last year; for that there will never be money. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u63	Thank you very much, Mrs. Palmer Tous. Mr Hurtado Zurera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Speaker of the People's Party, you say one thing when you are in government and another when you are no longer in government. I'll explain to you about this tax. Do you know who rules in the Murcian Community? The People's Party, right? Do you know that the Murcian Community has raised the maximum tax rate of this tax, which is 1.5%, paid by bank customers? Do you know that? Do you know who rules in Castile and León? For in Castile and León the People's Party has increased this quota to a maximum of 1.5%. [[Applauds]] Do you know that in Valencia, when they had an absolute majority, the government of the People's Party increased this type of tax to a maximum of 1.5%? I'm going to refresh his memory more. Do you remember when they ruled, that fifty taxes went up in this country? Do you remember? You now, in the fiscal revolution, say lower taxes. But when they ruled, fifty taxes went up in this country! There has been no Government that has increased taxes further. [[Applauds]] Do you also remember that you approved a tax amnesty so that 30 000 defrauders, a large part of your party, would take advantage of the tax amnesty and regularize a lot of assets and many income of totally unknown origin, if not illegal? Do you remember that? That's his memory, the one I have to refresh, because it seems they don't have memory. This is another occurrence of Mr Casado, of this new radicalized PP. Like another occurrence: we're going to put an examination on the staff. A real occurrence instead of supporting public services by saying that we have to bring in many more public employees to improve the quality of public services. Another occurrence of Mr Casado, to say that those autonomys that do not comply will be made a moratorium on his competences. That goes against the Constitution itself. Another occurrence of Mr. Married or the last of Mr. Maroto: that the fault of the arrival of immigrants is because they have much easier access to social assistance. But what barbarities are you saying instead of showing that they are fundamental and indispensable for the birth rate in this country and for the competitiveness of sectors that would not be productive without them? Why are you guys out of line with the way you're doing it? Say it clearly, say it openly, you want to take the taxes off the bank because you are the great allies of the bank. That is the only reality that can be said. On the contrary, what has the PSOE done? What has the Socialist Group done? Not only does it remove this tax from bank clients, but it has also passed the Real Estate Credit Act, which means that formalization costs will be borne by all banks, except valuation. This has been done and promoted by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, because the Socialist Parliamentary Group is an ally not of banking entities, but of banking customers and of the need to protect them. Those are the two totally opposite positions. You are in it, but you want to mask it and you want to say that less taxes is the best, without saying that less taxes means, of course, less sustainability of the welfare state, less resources for the autonomous communities. Tell that to the autonomous communities where you govern if you are really willing to take on that loss of revenue and revenue. Therefore, the important thing is that citizens know, because I am sure that they do not legitimise them socially for this initiative because it is a retrograde, totally anti-social, anti-welfare initiative and, above all, an extremely unfair initiative. Banks have an obligation to contribute, because they have profit margins that allow them to contribute like other citizens, like other companies in all productive sectors. This is one more occurrence of this radicalised new PP, because you, when you rule, go up this tax to the maximum and, when you don't rule, change your mind and say you have to take it off. No one believes that, nor do you, who defend it. Thank you. [[Mr De Olano Vela asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u65	Thank you very much, Mr Hurtado Zurera. Mr. Olano, tell me why you're asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u66	Madam President, pursuant to Rule 71.1, I wanted to ask Mr Hurtado to withdraw a statement because he lacked the decorum and respect for this parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u67	Tell me exactly what you mean.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u68	Mr Hurtado has said that much of my party has benefited from the tax amnesty. I ask Mr Hurtado, who has surely made a mistake in his statement, to withdraw it, because, if not, I would be forced to say that much of the Socialist Party has benefited from the EREs in Andalusia. [[Applauds.-Rumores.-A honourable Member: It's the same!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u69	Thank you, Mr. Olano. Mr. Hurtado, do you withdraw what Mr. Olano has just requested?
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u70	Matizo: Some of the members of the People's Party have benefited from the tax amnesty. [[Rumors.-Mr. De Olano Vela asks for the word]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u71	Thank you very much, Mr Hurtado Zurera. Mr Olano, it seems to me that this subject is already sufficiently debated, please. We now turn to position-setting and Mr Bel Accensi has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hurtado, I agree with you, Viva Andalucía libre! [[Applauds]] I hope you'll agree with me, Visca Catalunya lliure! [[Applauds]] I see that this one has not received as many applause as the previous one. It's curious. [[Rumors]] Anyway, Mrs. Palmer...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u74	Mrs Palmer, while I was making your speech, I reviewed your whole proposal because I thought: Let me see, rapporteur, rapporteur... Where does the rapporteur come from here? Let's see if they become a passive subject of legal acts documented to the rapporteur and end up paying the notary the tax, because, of course, not much is understood. We are going to vote against, and I will give you a reflection that you may not have time to develop here, but that you must pass on to the citizenry, to all these people who want to buy the housing and that you do not want to pay the tax. Look at your argument. There is a Supreme Court ruling that the tax should no longer be paid by the buyer, who is mortgaged, but must be paid by the bank; there is also a contradiction or a counter-resolution of the Supreme Court that says that it should be maintained, but the Government comes and says: No, this is paid by the banks. And you do the following reasoning: Listen, as the banks are going to move it and the customer will end up paying it, then no one will pay it. And my question is, was the client not paying for it before? In 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and until May 2018, who paid this tax? Who ruled in the Spanish state? Who could have changed what you are asking for right now? During the years in which the People's Party ruled, were not the buyers of the first home, the young people of the first home, paying for it? It's not that the banks hit it, but that they paid it directly. Why didn't you take that step? This is where the incongruity and, from my point of view, the electoralism of the proposal lies. That goes for Citizens because, of course, I don't remember, but who approved the last budget in force? Who approved it? The People's and Citizens' Party. Who was paying the tax at the time? The customers. And you modified it? Of course, there were no elections at the time and now they want to change it. Subsequently, the People's Party introduced an additional provision that said that the autonomous communities would not be concerned and would be compensated by the State in accordance with the average collection for the past three years. But we, in Catalonia, do not deserve any credibility because I remember the last clause that Minister Montoro put in saying that he was going to compensate us for the tax on bank deposits that established the same, also urgently, that prevented it from being fixed by the autonomous communities and that it would be compensated. How much has Catalonia been compensated for this tax? Zero potato. Therefore, the credibility of the tax compensation to the Autonomous Communities that must be made by the State to us deserves absolutely no confidence. For all this, because we understand that this measure that you are proposing is as electoralistic as some of the real decrees that the Government wants to adopt or as some or a large part of the budgets that were not admitted to the process, we are going to vote against and we understand that, if we have to think about this tax, we will have to think globally... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u76	Thank you, President. In any case, I end up like Mr Hurtado: Visca Catalunya liure! Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u77	Thank you very much, Mr Bel Accensi. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u78	Thank you, President. Members, Members, we are finalizing the parliamentary term by debating an amendment to the whole of the People's Group which does not surprise us at all. In fact, it is an identical amendment to a proposal for a law that was tabled last November. It seems, therefore, that the PP does not feel right that the banks should pay the tax on documented legal acts; a tax, let us recall, modified by royal decree by an opportunistic government that decided to amend with this patch the shames of the Supreme Court. The Royal Decree provides that the taxable person of the tax is the lender, the banker, and not the borrower, the customer. You now propose that for first homes the variable share of the tax be zero, but, look at the data, before, when it was the customers - the usual ones - who had to bear this cost, it seems that they didn't care so much. Beyond the debate on the far-reaching, much-needed reform of the financial system, which must put an end to banking privileges and abuses and the violation of consumer rights, the following must be taken into account. The tax on heritage transmissions and documented legal acts is a tax assigned to the Autonomous Communities. This means that the regulatory capacity on the type of tax or deductions and allowances of the quota is the competence of the communities. In the case of the Government of Catalonia, this type of tax is regulated in Article 7 of Law 21/2001 on tax and administrative measures. It is therefore unclear whether the scope of this reform affects all autonomous communities alike, both those that have passed the tax rate themselves and those that have not. In that case, once again, we are faced with an invasion of competence and interference with the autonomous financing system, and we will therefore vote against its amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Margall Sastre. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, next Tuesday these General Courts are being dissolved, and it is time, first of all, to say goodbye and, having the honour of making the penultimate intervention of my parliamentary group, the first thing I wanted to do is to thank these thirty-two Members for their honour in defending and representing the Spaniards during this parliamentary term. [[Applauds]] Secondly, I will mention some basic issues. The first is that in a sale it gives the same economically where you place the passive subject. We are all clear that we pay VAT and that if we get VAT up or down this directly affects us as consumers and yet all VAT is paid by companies. Therefore, much of this discussion that we have brought here is somewhat absurd. It is also absurd that we should become so transcendent today, because we all know that, as the General Courts dissolve on Tuesday, this bill will be lost as tears in the rain and therefore this amendment to the whole has a purely political value. However, last Thursday we debated and voted exactly the same, that is, in the first place, the zero rate for the acquisition of the first dwelling in the tax on documented legal acts, and the vote was indeed there. And what happened? [[Show a chart]] That we were left alone voting for the Senate's proposal to leave the type zero in the first house, giving a new wording to article 29. Alone. The People's Parliamentary Group voted against its proposal for a tax reduction. Why did you vote against your own proposal? It's important, because this was real. If it had been approved right now - or, more precisely, within three months, which is when the Law on Real Estate Credit comes into force - the type of legal acts documented would be 0 %. Why did you vote against it? Because, as in the vote on Rule 29.1 first there was a tie, he thought it was the same. Of course, as it really was, it couldn't be that the autonomous communities lost money. [[Show another one a graph]] In fact, this tie in Article 29.1 got rid of it by the Basque Parliamentary Group, because it went on to say that they did not intervene in matters that were common taxation not outside to break the tie, because they saw that it was possible that in the Basque Country the first purchasers of the house would benefit and pay 0% of taxes, and Article 29.1 - which was otherwise - did not end up coming out. The surprising thing is that the People's Party has voted against its own tax cuts when they are really; they even brought us - and this was remembered by my colleague Rodrigo Gómez - a tax hike. Why? Because by deleting the word'subjective', novations and subrogations were subject to tax again, when they had a tax rebate since 1994. It is important because this tax reduction in 1994 allows, for example, the refinancing of debts without paying the tax. What happened? We warned you that you were carrying a tax increase - that, according to your spokesman in the Senate, Mrs. Arenales Serrano, was made by mistake - and the whole House voted against your article 45 tax increase, but you continued to propose a tax increase. They're voting in favor of raising taxes. Mr. Married, his leader, spends the day saying that he will immediately lower all taxes, which is exactly the same as Mr. Montoro and Mr. Rajoy said in 2011. However, the first thing they did at the first Council of Ministers was to start massively raising taxes. [[Applauds]] We thought they weren't going to be so fast - because, among other things, the next president of the government is not going to be Pablo Married, but Albert Rivera - but we were wrong. Even from the opposition and two days after they promised to lower all taxes, they decided to raise taxes and vote in favour of decisive votes to raise taxes. We will vote in favour of your amendment to the whole, which will serve no purpose because it is a pure political position, but we, when it really is, vote in favour of lowering taxes; and we did so, as we did in the 2018 budget, because the milleurists do not pay the IRPF thanks to our commitment to Citizens and condition our vote to that. [[Applauds]] I'm closing up. We therefore managed to ensure that the carrots were not at the end of the parliamentary term. Mr. Married, what have you been doing all these years? It voted in favour of the increase of the IRPF, VAT, IBI, corporate tax and excise duties. He has voted yes to tens of votes for tax increases of 23 billion euros and also to some rebate - he has already come out here - like that of the tax amnesty. I mean, you're cutting only for the defrauders, but to the common mortals a massive rise in taxes. Now you're telling us that you want to lower taxes, when the first thing you do when voting is really trying to get them up, even through the back door, like you did last week? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, as you said, it is true that the Socialist Party is trying to finance with these tax increases the most expensive election campaign in history and that for uncontrolled spending tax increases are insufficient, but it is also true that you make unfulfilled promises and never lower taxes, except when demanded by Citizens. In Citizens we believe in tax cuts that can be made, as we have already done in the 2018 budgets; in the fight against fraud and not in tax amnesties, and in eliminating unproductive public spending. Ladies and gentlemen, in this last speech I bid farewell. I'll see you at the polls. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. De la Torre Díaz. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, I have the floor, Mrs Ramos Jordan.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u82	Thank you, President. Gentlemen of the PP, be honest. This amendment responds to a very simple thing: you have been called by your friends from the bank because you do not want to pay taxes and, as we are in the campaign and you cannot defend that it is paid by the citizenry, which was the one who was paying it so far, they abolish the tax. So flat and so simple. It doesn't matter if there is less money for hospitals, for education, for roads, so long as your bank friends, who already owe us more than EUR 60 billion, are happy. I'd like to remember a little bit what happened. The gentlemen who today are judging activists such as Jordi Cuixart or Jordi Sánchez, accused of calling a demonstration, are the same who less than four months ago changed, to the liking of the bank, a sentence that, for once, favored the citizenry. [[The lady]] But, as everyone knows, this is no exception, ladies and gentlemen, neither in the regulation of housing nor in the judicial dome. If we talk about housing, this tax is only the tip of the iceberg of a legislative framework tailored to the financial powers. The same always happens: under the slogan and the defense of market freedom is legislated in favour of a few. And let's put a few examples: we have a mortgage credit law that does not provide for payment; we had ground clauses; we had the preferred ones and an endless number of abusive clauses that have freed the financial powers. But, if we focus on the judiciary, the closing of the Supreme Court is only the colophon of a long history of discredit, which goes from the sentence of La Manada to the statements of Mr. Cosidó in which he boasted of controlling the judiciary. Let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that this government has also been quite short in cleaning up the judicial dome of the people's party's heritage, and that is not a failure for the left alone, it is a failure that affects the rule of law and the trust that citizens have in their institutions. In this context, the Socialist Party is developing a real decree which, obviously, we believe is insufficient. As we have already stated at the time, this decree came late - I remember Mrs Calviño telling my partner Lucia Martín that we had to wait for the sentence to be able to act -, a decree that, likewise, continued to benefit the bank, since the exemption to pay the tax in certain cases, allowed it to deduct the tax in the company tax and did not allow the return to the contracts already signed in the last four years. This royal decree is simply an example of its housing policies, unbraved policies, nothing transformative, which do not guarantee the right to decent housing. Because when we have to touch and make structural changes, friends of the PSOE, with financial power we have come across. And what about the People's Party, which comes with this amendment as a whole to give management lessons when during the last ten years of your government you have done absolutely nothing? It's worth a brief review of your trajectory. There were hundreds of evictions a day, ladies and gentlemen, that have destroyed the lives of hundreds of people and families. And what did you do? Nothing. While you were ruling, thousands of people were losing their money in a bank scam as obvious as that of the ground clauses, and while the European courts declared the retroactive nature of the clauses, you were doing absolutely nothing. And now they celebrate the functioning of the Spanish mortgage banking system. Really? The People's Party, with its citizens' allies - which once called itself the regeneration party and which for all it has served is to re-centralize and worsen coexistence in Catalonia - have blocked each and every of the social initiatives that have been presented in this House and that were essential laws for all citizens. Well, what's this game doing? This party presents us with an amendment to the whole that serves nothing, but to hinder the legislative process, as they had done last week with the PAH law and as they have been doing the whole legislature. If you are so worried that the bank will impact the costs on the customer, put in instruments, because eliminating the tax is not the solution, and defend the creation, for example, of a competitive public bank. For these reasons we are going to vote against this amendment as a whole, although we still consider that the policies of the PSOE and this royal decree are insufficient; we know that as far as touching financial powers is concerned, the PSOE is not on our side. So we will continue to work to end evictions without housing alternatives, to limit the power of the bank, to create a public housing park and to limit rental prices; social laws, ladies and gentlemen, to improve people's lives. I would also like to take this opportunity to say good-bye to all of you in this legislature and to thank my parliamentary group, as well as all the technicians and techniques that have supported us. I am very proud to say goodbye, ladies and gentlemen, to the work we have done in this legislature, but above all to the way we have done it, not forgetting where we come from and who we defend. And, of course, I want to thank all those people who go out on the street to defend our rights and to remind us that we can. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u83	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ramos.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u84	The next item is the agenda item on the agreement on direct and single reading of the proposal for an organic law on the transfer of ownership and powers from AP-9 to the Autonomous Community of Galicia. This item will be put to the vote with the remaining votes at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u85	We are now discussing the last item on the agenda, which relates to the opinion of the Committee of Inquiry on the financial crisis in Spain and the financial assistance programme. Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor to present the opinion.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 22 February 2017 the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies agreed to the creation of the Commission of Inquiry into the financial crisis in Spain and the financial assistance programme. From that time until the adoption of its opinion on 29 November, the Commission held 48 meetings lasting more than 214 hours. It was attended by 81 experts and individuals of the most diverse status who provided their views on the subject matter of the work. Similarly, attention should be drawn to the large volume of documentation submitted to the Commission by a wide range of institutions and individuals, the details of which are found in the opinion published in the official bulletin and which adds up to more than 18 500 files covering more than 45 gigas. I believe that the members of the Commission can say at this time that we are satisfied with the duty to do so, but I must add that this satisfaction is not a feeling of self-congratulation. From the outset, we were aware that the Spanish Parliament owed its citizens an explanation that would be rigorous and credible of what has been one of the greatest tragedies for people of all kinds and conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, as much as the opposite has been said, there is not a single winner of the great crisis that is beginning to manifest itself clearly in 2008. It must be made clear, however, that citizens have undoubtedly been the main losers. I'll talk about it later. But what about the prestige of centuries-old institutions, such as the Banco de España, or more recently, such as the National Securities Market Commission, how to forget the operating difficulties that Spain has had to endure during these long years, without forgetting the deep crisis of the reputation of the Spanish financial system and of each and every one of its entities, those that existed at the beginning of the crisis and those that ended up surviving the disaster. The crisis also exposed the weakness of the institutional architecture with which the European Union endowed the euro system, and also - it seems appropriate to say now - the judiciary reacted late, too late, to the cruel application of legal mechanisms devoid of the slightest consideration for the victims of the crisis. Finally, the proliferation of rules with which the General Courts had to deal with it speaks of the evil legal framework with which we operated when we believed that everything was a road of wine and roses. This has been the task of the Commission since its establishment, and I must stress, first of all, the very important level at which it has been working. I do not think that any of the usual spokespersons or members of the Commission deny me. The best reflection of what I am saying is that the final opinion that I now have the honour to present has only been voted negatively by less than one tenth of the House. You, like me, know perfectly well the value of this data in the times ahead. Secondly, it should be pointed out that the opinion submitted for consideration by Congress goes far beyond the particular views of one or other Members, of one or other parliamentary groups. The report - you can see - is based primarily on the contributions made to the Commission by the many representatives who have illustrated to us with their knowledge and experience. It is obvious that there have been conflicting positions among themselves on identical issues. This is reflected in the report. In the same way, it is clear that some have seemed to the Commission stronger and more widespread than others, and this is reflected. In the face of purely doctrinal analyses and studies, as full of data and statistics as frozen on many occasions, the Commission offers a coral analysis of what happened during the terrible financial crisis, told by its own protagonists, in the first person, including the testimony of those serving prison sentences for their harmful and illegal behaviour during it. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is important to stress that, together with the effort to get a full understanding of what has happened, what is really fundamental is the value of the conclusions, of the lessons learned from this period as black as a convulsion of our country's economy. It is not easy in such a short space to select which battery of measures is proposed in the opinion, but I think I am not mistaken if I briefly highlight some elements. Eliminating the risk of a crisis such as the one we are facing requires a major reform and improvement of public institutions. It is clear that neither regulators nor supervisors were up to the challenge they faced. While better regulation would have avoided many problems, resources were not even used properly and in particular in a timely manner. A serious and responsible country must be able to rely more fully on its regulators and supervisors. To this end, many measures are proposed in the conclusions. In this paragraph, I must stress three essential measures: the urgent creation of a macroprudential monitoring mechanism, which is essential to warn and warn of crises before their effects are irremediable; the inexcusable articulation of an institution that allows the most effective protection of all users of the financial system in all its fields, and it is also essential to strengthen the independence of regulators and supervisors, avoiding any temptation and possibility of their capture. For the same reason, it is essential that financial institutions and market operators substantially change the parameters of their behaviour. The incomparable erosion of their reputation - unanimously accepted by all of them - must move them away from the will to maximize the results on any other perspective, including that of the suffering of individuals and groups above levels that are difficult to bear. This is not to mention many clearly incorrect practices in their usual operation, which are described in detail in the opinion. It is also essential to note - no matter how obvious - that this type of crisis, if it ever happened this way, never happens again in a single national reality or country. We are talking about a global macro-crisis that, as a member of Spain, had a special impact on the European Union. This has been a unanimous conclusion of representatives and parliamentarians. The European financial system set up by economic and monetary union has proved, at best, insufficient and imperfect, and at worst extremely damaging, for a proper balance between the needs and responses of the system. Without taking any credit from Mr Draghi's performance at the head of the European Central Bank, for what he assumed to lead and resolve the crisis, it is clear that the European Union must perfect and complete its financial structure if it is to avoid repetitions of these crises in the future, and this must be done not only for reasons of economic and financial logic, which also, but also for being able to reflect a pride of European sentiment, which has recently been very deteriorated. In this regard, it is worth highlighting the much improved performance of the Single Resolution Board in the liquidation process of the People's Bank; in addition to its successes or errors, the Commission was able to find that its management was presided over by intolerable obscurantism, completely removed from the parameters of transparency required in a democratic society, concealment which, of course, affected shareholders, bondholders and depositors of the institution, but which reached the Congress of Deputies itself. With all the above being important, in the view of this most important Member, it is that the Commission, through its work, can be able to convey to this House the unbearable level of suffering that this crisis has entailed for millions of Spaniards, who have seen their work disappear, their health worsened, their housing was withdrawn from them, they had to involuntarily abandon their peoples, their cities or this country, in short they were the real losers of the crisis. Several of your representatives have had the opportunity to listen to you in the Commission, believe me that your testimonies have been touching. Nor should we forget thousands of large and small shareholders of entities such as Bankia or Banco Popular, who saw their savings disappear in a hardly justifiable way, even though in many cases they have been able to recover them, not without an unequivocal effort. But being the main ones affected, I think it is right to say that out of this crisis we have all, absolutely all, come out poorer, economically or morally. Anyone who thinks that the crisis is not one of the main causes of so many unquestionable populist political movements that have emerged around the world is mistaken, and you, ladies and gentlemen, know it. It will now be the spokespersons who will forward their opinion on the opinion and I must stop here. [[The lady]] I'm done, Madam President. He did not want to do so without thanking those who had contributed to the Commission's work. Firstly, to the many institutions which, not because they are the priority subject of the research, have ceased to offer their maximum cooperation, notably the Banco de España, the National Securities Market Commission and the FROB; its governors and presidents must acknowledge their unconditional cooperation. Special thanks to the Court of Instruction No. 4 of the National Court, which provided us with important information on the Bankia case, which is under its jurisdiction. I reiterate our gratitude to the dozens of attendees who illustrated us with their knowledge, without them the work would have been impossible. I also think of justice for the thanks, with names and surnames, to the members of the General Secretariat of the Congress, who worked hard to get the work to a good end: the lawyers of the Commission, Manuel Alba and Luis Manuel Miranda; the members of the secretariat of the Commission, Manuel García and Belén García Paesa; of the Department of Economic and Budgetary Analysis, Carmen Gutiérrez del Castillo and Juan Manuel Andrés; of the Department of Documentation, Immaculate Moreno and Rosa Grau; and of the Department of Archives, Rosario Martínez-Cañavate. Finally, I would like to thank all the members of the Commission personally for their cooperation and contribution in facilitating this Presidency's work. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, for our part: mission accomplished; a challenge for the next Courts and governments. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u87	Thank you very much. In order to defend the particular votes cast and to establish a position, Mrs Sagastizabal intervenes by the Basque Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u88	Thank you, President. Good morning. I have to admit that the opinion is not the document of the Basque Group, but it was the document that had been agreed at the last meeting of the presentation of the financial crisis, which some groups subsequently took off. I say later because in that presentation it was agreed to adopt the report, each with its own particular vote reserved; a report made on the basis of the Podemos document, which basically collected the account of the various participants, on which everyone, I repeat, we agreed. Perhaps it would have been better if they were to take off, if they had expressed it at that meeting. But, despite this, I believe that the consensus reached in the motions for resolutions, which in the case of the Basque Group have all been, must be highlighted. Many people have appeared in the Commission and there has been no attempt to exculpate anyone, but there is no point in pointing out or talking about a single culprit. There was bad management of the managers of the entities, the Executive at best took time to act, the regulatory bodies also did not act courageously, and later with the case of the People's Bank it has been shown that the performance and transparency of the European bodies can also be improved. The subject of pointing out the culprits has been in the minds of all and all who have been in this Commission, and in this attempt the list may vary according to each one's conclusions and ideology, but, regardless of whether or not responsibility could be determined, we should answer the following question once determined or not, the responsibility as it said: where do we go or what do we propose? And that is why I think it is more important to look for or lay the groundwork for what has happened in the future not to happen again, and finally to understand why regulators could not see the bubble or why, when it was seen, the measures were insufficient or even why the market could not self-regulate. The crisis has paid for it and is being paid for by those who have not originated it, and this should cause us to reflect to make self-criticism, to set guidelines and to make economies more resilient in the long term, and ultimately to learn from mistakes, and that is why this group has placed the focus of its particular vote on the regulatory bodies, including the role of the auditor, especially because they did not know or could not detect or see certain facts that have subsequently had a great impact on people, that is, a great cost to society, and that the crisis is also the result not only of concrete decision-making, but also of non-decision-making. Basically the particular vote of this group comes to say that the regulatory and supervisory bodies were lax in terms of the permissiveness of the excessive growth of mortgage credit, in terms of credits to promoters to buy land and build housing, and also in terms of excessive valuations among others. As far as decision-making is concerned, it seems that, as we have seen in the appearances, they were aware of the problems of the banking system, as I said, through the appearances. On the other hand, market surveillance also appears to have been lax in the protection of investors who were buying toxic products, preference shares and subordinated obligations, and who have given rise to a great social and economic problem for those who subscribed to them. The problem is not whether these products are illegal, not illegal, but how they were marketed. The buyers were retail investors, small savers who hired this product under the belief that they were depositing their savings in a safe and readily available manner of capital, and also based on their relationship of trust with banking entities. However, and given the perpetual nature of these products and the profitability that is not guaranteed can generate, both profits and losses, investors have had to assume losses that in many cases have meant losing the savings of a lifetime. The role of supervisors, both in the Bankia Stock Exchange and in the People's Bank resolution, has also been called into question in that Commission. Monitoring should also be complemented by other tools such as external auditors, consultancy work or on-site stress tests. These audits should provide an independent, detailed and comprehensive opinion after reviewing the accounts of the entities, and thus contribute to improving efficiency and financial balance sheets, and this was not the case either. Therefore, the audit reports have shown us that we need to address, on the one hand, the weaknesses identified in them, because it is an important part of the financial information provided to the market, and, on the other, we also believe that we need to address the excessive concentration in a few audit firms, which is a consequence of the complexity of the audit also to large corporations. The requirement to ensure general interests determines the role played by regulators, the structural and corporate complexity not only of service providers, but also the unequal position of certain users of these services, globalisation and internationalization pose new challenges for regulation, and it is that despite the existence of international regulatory mechanisms, some of the crises of recent years have also not been predicted. Although after the crisis the financial system has been regulated with the intention of preventing or containing future crises, and therefore various measures have been articulated, we, seeing that the economic and financial crisis has caused a crisis of confidence that needed to be recovered, should place the emphasis on consumer information, a clear information in a way that understands the risks it takes when hiring. The defence of consumers and users is one of the main drivers of social and economic policy, and from our point of view effective procedures are needed to ensure that this protection is real, achieving a balanced regulation for the good behaviour of the two parties involved in the credit relationship, and in that we have sought our motions for resolutions. Finally, I would also like to make a clarification by this group. The account of the opinion has been based solely on the statements of the representatives, and I must commend the rigour of the Commission's lawyers in this regard. Last week we were aware by the lawyers of this Commission of the existence of some somewhat problematic wordings in the motions for resolutions that could best lead to someone challenging this opinion. Some of these were proposed by this group, and to safeguard working hours and a rigorous opinion my group was prepared to amend that wording, following the warnings of the lawyers. In spite of all this, and that another group has also been in this same situation, and in its legitimate right it has not wanted to change its wording, we believe that their interests have prevailed, not allowing the others, in this case this group, to make such a change, since unanimity was required to do so. If I had been in your case my attitude would not have been the same, I would at least have allowed others this change. Finally, I would like to thank all the colleagues and spokesmen of this Commission for the work they have done, and especially the lawyers, Manuel Alba Navarro and Luis Manuel Miranda López, who have done an impressive job. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u89	For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u90	Thank you very much. I will speak very briefly. The Democratic Party has not participated as a member of this Commission, since the composition of the Joint Parliamentary Group and the system of participation in the commissions of inquiry made it impossible for us to be represented in it. I will therefore make a general and brief position on the conclusions, which I am already going to support, and I will also take a position on the particular votes. Although we have not been members of the Commission, we have followed the work of the Commission, so first of all I would like to thank all the Members of the Commission and their chairman - who is also part of the Joint Group - for their work, for their extensive and hard work, which we know has not always been easy, and therefore we are grateful. As we have not also participated, I must point out to you that the conclusions and recommendations that we are going to support do not exactly reflect our position. In some of them we differ significantly with their wording, and in others we believe that it should have been expanded or improved. However, we understand that the vote is on the concept and the conclusions and recommendations, and we will therefore vote in favour. The work of a commission of inquiry on these characteristics is always useful, it is very useful to know what happened and why it happened. But especially if it should be useful for this House and for the society we represent, it is to take action in the future, and draw conclusions that can materialise in legislative changes that avoid what happened at other times. At this point we also have some doubts. We understand that much further progress should have been made, we understand that in the face of a problem as serious as the one that caused the financial crisis, we should have tried to reach a consensus on some of the major measures to tackle some of the problems, and this from our perspective in the current legislature has not happened. [[The Lord]] Let us hope that these conclusions and recommendations, as has happened on other occasions, are not a set of good intentions which, when the term of office ends, are placed on some shelf, and that the new legislators do not use them. In any case, we believe that this would require consensus. Finally, if I may, as we have not participated directly in the Commission, in relation to the particular votes we shall proceed... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u91	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u92	If this is over now, if there's too little left, we're not going to look bad for the little that's left. He said that with regard to individual votes, with some of which we can agree in part, we are going to abstain in all of them, we are not going to vote against each of them, because we do not feel obliged to do so by not having participated. In any case, we are going to abstain. Yesterday I said goodbye, but today I would like to make a very special reference to my colleagues - today they cannot all be in the House at this time, but to the eight colleagues, the seven present more Quico Homs - for the joint work, for the experience and the experience throughout this legislature. Thank you very much, comrades. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u94	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. Thank you for your generosity in giving me half a minute to remember that today is International Rare Disease Day. Today is the day when it is everyone's duty to remember the duty we have to put an end to invisibility and to bet on research into minority diseases. Today modestly those who speak to them try to make them visible. Tomorrow I think it'll be up to everyone to put resources on the table. [[Applauds]] Thank you. I have the rare honour of closing this legislature with this debate on the opinion of the Committee of Inquiry into the Financial Crisis. We started and almost finished with the thanks section. It has been so complete that our president has made it possible to save me a few paragraphs. I would just like to endorse everything she has said and complement it with thanks to the President of the Commission. In a Commission where we had a very bad time, she helped us at all times. Thank you, Ani. It is also important to underline the lawyers, Mr Alba and Mr Miranda. Without them I would not have been able to present my conclusions. We must also remind the ushers, the House's assistants, stenographers and stenographers of whose patience we have abused. The thanks also have to be to some - be subrected - of the attendees. It should not be necessary to thank them for fulfilling an obligation, but there were few who showed up and said what they really knew and thought. It should also be remembered here, as we noted in our particular vote, that many of them refused to attend a commission that constituted the Parliament of Catalonia on the same cause a couple of years earlier: Luis de Guindos, Elena Salgado, Fernando Jiménez Latorre, Pedro Solbes Mira, José Manuel Campa Fernández, Luis María de Linde Castro, Miguel Ángel Fernández Ordóñez, Jaime Caruana Lacorte, Jerónimo Martínez Tello, Fernando Restoy Lozano and María Elvira Rodríguez Herrer. Shame on them for their fear of democracy. And what about that, in addition to them, it would be up to them to distribute some anti-oscares, especially as far as main protagonists are concerned. Also for special purposes, for the exceptional accounting makeup that we have seen and experienced in recent years. Or the Oscars to the great productions for the brutal expenses carried out in a speculative way by some managers. Just remember that we have seen people who have failed billions in urban operations that are still standing still and without a solution. That's right, the benefits are still in your pockets. But we also prefer to focus our attention on the true heroes of this whole story. For starters, the managers of Caixa d'Enginyers, of Caixa de Pollença, of Caixa de Ontinyent, small savings boxes that showed that everything could have been avoided with another attitude. They won't have to spend money to save their reputational prestige. Another financial model is possible if greed is not the main sign of identity of so many bankers. But we must also thank those who represented before us the voices of those affected by banking barbarities; those who draw strength from weakness not only to record their denunciation, but also to fight so that they do not repeat themselves in other people. I'm running out of time, I've got a whole list and I don't know how to count in the Journal of Sessions so many people that should be mentioned. The conclusion is to what extent the laws that establish the Spanish financial system have allowed the impunity of the banking elites for so many years; to what extent the connivance between the highest financial institutions of the State and the major banks has been evidenced; in how the Bank of Spain, the CNMV, the ministries of Economy and Finance, rather than being vigilant in the name of citizenship in the face of abuses and bank abuse, have blatantly silenced and allowed, for example, more than EUR 60 billion of public money to end up in private pockets. How do you want citizens to trust a state that plays on the side of looters? In Catalonia, many Catalans - not all of them - have long been aware of this, and that is why we are working to have a state of our own. So the best way we have to thank all the people who have helped us is to get the improvements implemented... [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u95	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u96	... that are proposed in the conclusions and we are able to prevent another disaster from happening again. I'm done, Mr. President. Without the assistance of so many people, our work would not have been possible, which has led to the elaboration of thirty-four proposals for the opinion, of which twenty-eight were voted, unappealably good, and which are part of the opinion, something to be emphasized given the rebellious, seditious character that is usually attributed to us; many of them voted by PP, PSOE and - pasmense - by Citizens. [[the lady]] That is why we will vote in favour of our particular vote - I should like to say this - but also of the Commission's opinion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u97	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Roldán Monés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u98	Thank you, President. First of all, I wanted to thank the lawyers for their extraordinary work. I would also like to thank the President and my colleagues in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection who have done a great deal of work, extraordinary work, and the other speakers in the Committee who have done a great deal of work. There have been many appearances, it has been more than a year and a half of work, although unfortunately this party does not share the final opinion or the agreement that PP and PSOE have reached, to essentially remove responsibility from politicians in the boards of directors of savings banks, which is the main and differential problem of the Spanish crisis. This commission was created to clarify the political responsibilities in the biggest financial crisis that Spain has had in the last century. If we, as politicians, spend a lot of time working and come to the conclusion - against what all the research says and what all the reports of all the institutions and all the recommendations say - that the main responsibility and the only money spent on the rescue comes from the savings boxes, then the 60 billion, the cuts, the social suffering, all that is direct responsibility of the savings boxes; that is, if we try to deny what is obvious, we will be deceiving ourselves and helping very little citizens. Our thesis is that there was a rotten system of power relations between the financial system and the political system, through the incestuous triangle of savings banks, presidents and autonomous communities, and then promoters. It was a circle that worked very well, it was a win-win: they gave easy credit to finance pharaonic projects everywhere that then returned to the party with millionaire bites. This led to the construction in Spain of two thirds of the total housing that was built in the European Union between 1999 and 2007, with the largest external deficit we have ever had, the highest unemployment rate in Europe and the largest cuts we have suffered in generations. That, as I say, is the direct responsibility of savings banks. Well, in the opinion, which is - I insist -, in my opinion, shameful...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u99	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u100	..., which have been approved by the Socialist Party and the People's Party - which tend to find agreements when it comes to trying to cover up their own shames - do not include a number of things, so we are going to vote against it. I'm going to name some of them. PP, PSOE and Podemos-Izquierda Unita, the three with politicians on the boards of the savings banks, voted against the point of Citizens in the conclusions where it is said that the differential cause of the Spanish financial crisis are the savings banks and the politicization of their councils. It is a shame, it is an insult to the citizenry that this House, which has an obligation to draw the truth, is trying to cover up the shame of its politicians instead of responding to reality. [[Applauds]] The PSOE doesn't think it had any responsibility Zapatero, which entered in 2004 and until 2009 said there were green outbreaks and that everything would be fine, great. Essentially, the Government functioned as an arsonist rather than as a firefighter, feeding the construction of housing in Spain. PP, PSOE and Podemos deny the proven fact that the cost of the rescue, the 60 billion, is attributable to the savings boxes... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u101	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u102	...and also reduce the amendment we have tabled since C ́s explaining that point. Old parties think that... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u103	Wait a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. The photographs will be taken at the end of the session. Thank you very much. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u104	He said that the old parties agreed to vote against the autonomous communities having political control of the boards of directors, where they had essentially plugged in their cousins and friends. Those were the ones who handled an extraordinary risk; almost half of their balances were in construction and that was the main reason for the rescue after. In short, it is a shameful opinion, an opinion that seeks to hide the truth from citizens and an opinion that fails in its initial objective, which was to try to clarify and seek political responsibilities for the crisis. We have proposed an alternative opinion, in which we propose some solutions. I would like to conclude, because I am running out of time, saying that I went into politics to try to find solutions, to seek empirical evidence, to try to uncover the truth, to try to recognize the mistakes of the past, to learn from them and to improve politics in the future, but I believe that this Commission has not been able to do that work and is therefore a huge disappointment to me. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u105	Thank you very much. [[Rumors]] Quiet. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Garzón Espinosa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u106	Thank you, Madam President. I'm going to be telegraphed for the time available. Firstly, I would like to thank all those who have participated in the Commission, as other speakers have done, and to stress that there has been an atmosphere of great cordiality in this Committee of Inquiry, despite the differences that remain. I think that's something that has to be valued. Bearing in mind that we are talking about something that really breaks Spain, such as the economic crisis and, above all, the EUR 60 billion that we have already lost from the public, there has been a fairly reasonable and friendly atmosphere between the different speakers, perhaps with the exception of Mr Roldán's last intervention, which is very angry, although he did not come to the Commission as much as to be so. In any case, the rest of the groups have worked very well, also the spokesman for the Tower, of Citizens, and the opinion I think is good despite some issues. For example, we cannot forget that this Committee of Inquiry was born amputated. A series of appearances were requested that were rejected from the beginning by the People's Party and the Socialist Party, such as those of the... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u107	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u108	... presidents and presidents, if any, of the big corporations, of the big banks, or of the presidents of the government during the period studied. Their absence is absolutely unjustified in a Commission of Inquiry of these characteristics and, therefore, the Commission was already born amputated from the beginning. Even so, as I said, the opinion is positive. I do not deceive anyone if, moreover, I announce that much of the opinion is based on our report, which was a very hard-working report. That is why I want to mention our parliamentary group here, because it has worked enormously and with a result, I believe, far above expectations. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u109	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u110	I think it is important to say this because much of the absences in the opinion are in our particular vote; a particular vote that... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u111	One moment, Mr. Garzón, one moment. I'm stopping time. You can go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u112	Thank you very much, Madam President. He said that it is an opinion that includes all those absences that our group detects in the opinion. As you know, this Commission has worked with an opinion which is the lowest common denominator of what all groups think and, in that sense, no group disagrees with what is written, but it does have notable absences. It has surprised us that the Banco de España is so concerned about this opinion and that is why we believe that it should be brought to the prosecution, should the prosecution itself understand that there are signs of crime that need to be investigated beyond this Commission. For us it is very important that the work of this Commission can serve as a basis for clarifying criminal consequences in another area, because there has been responsibility. Despite what the Banco de España says, there have been many responsible and in our vote we point to them. Regulators, governments, large banks and savings banks and their managers are responsible for one of the great looting of our country, for a great scam. This is what appears in our particular vote, this is what appears to a great extent in the opinion, and that is why we stress once again that our group will vote yes to the opinion and will do all it can to get it to the prosecutor's office and that they feel that it is appropriate to clarify responsibilities beyond the Commission that ends today. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Mayor Perales has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u114	Good morning. Thank you, President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u115	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u116	First of all, I would like to use the rostrum to congratulate the Andalusian people today, 28 February, and to recall that on 28 February and 4 December they make Andalusia the symbol of the brotherhood of Spain. I would like to thank you for what your struggle for the right to self-government and your struggle to defend popular sovereignty has meant. Secondly, I would like to thank the work in the Commission, the technical support of the lawyers and the work of the whole of our parliamentary group. I would also like to thank the work done by the President of the Commission, who has worked to bring positions closer from the visions so far away that we had all the parliamentary groups. I believe that this has been an improbable task and it must be recognized. In this Commission, speaking of the financial crisis, we need to talk about those who are missing and I do not want to fail to mention; I do not want to fail to mention those who have triumphed in the crisis; those who have emerged strengthened from the crisis on poverty, pain and human rights violations of the most vulnerable population; those who are stronger and those who currently control the financial system in our country. I want to tell the untouchables, who have not been called to appear because they are above the law: Ana Patricia Botín, Francisco González, Josep Oliu and Isidre Fainé. [[Applauds]] I would like to congratulate you, once again you have been spared from appearing in this House, but our group wants to tell you that if we have a majority on 28 April, you will have to come and report to our people, that you have no doubt. What we have analyzed has been the looting, the placement of toxic products such as the preferred ones and like the garbage mortgages, which were only tools to put the hand in the pocket of the working people of our country. Those who speak only of boxes, always forget to explain to us something that is not less: why the boxes began to issue preference on the Cayman Islands in the 1990s with the acquiescence of the Banco de España. What were the caisses doing in the Cayman Islands more than raising funds in a tax haven to allow tax avoidance and a few to get rich, to swell that real estate bubble, among other things, through the financing of the caisses? I would like to take this opportunity to denounce that the bubble continues, that there are still 100% mortgages and that the Real Estate Credit Act has again shown that we have learned nothing; that this House, apart from issuing a critical report, when it has to make decisions and put the institutions alongside the social majority, shakes its legs and is unable to look into the eyes of financial institutions and tell them that they have to respect the people of our country. The financial institutions - I am finishing - have lived a permanent rescue with the Fund for the Acquisition of Financial Assets, the FROB 1, the FROB 2, the Sareb and the free money of the European Central Bank. Faced with this, the response to the popular classes suffering from the crisis has been the use of State violence, systematically violating human rights and condemning poverty and exclusion. The social rescue of all those who were sentenced to exclusion is pending. Simple things are necessary for the future, as well as recognizing the damage done, as well as the restoration of truth, justice and reparation. There is a need for regulation to stop abuses and protect the population from financial institutions. A firm commitment is needed to make our international human rights commitments a reality; a public bank is needed and not in the hands of speculators; a public park of sufficient rental housing; and to stop the vultures, who are the new actors, those who inflate the bubble of rent, those who have capital companies that are real tax havens in our country. It is necessary to put an end to the privileges of speculators. It can't be that working people are paying taxes and vultures and speculators...
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u117	Mr. Mayor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u118	...are protected by unfair tax legislation. We and we, starting on 28 April, are very clear about what this House needs to do: fiscal justice, to pay more for those who have the most and to end the impunity of vultures. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u119	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Palacín Guarné has the floor. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u120	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We have already discussed the last item on the agenda and I wanted to say that it is a great pride and honour for me to be able to speak on behalf of the Socialist Group in the last initiative to be debated in this Parliament. It is a debate which should, in principle, be positive, since the Committee of Inquiry into the Financial Crisis is one of the few that has finished its work and today we are voting on its opinion, but the satisfaction cannot be complete because, as we have heard, the opinion that we will be voting on today will not have the unanimity of all the groups. If we cannot count on that consensus, it is because the group that is shouting in the sky today has not done its job well or has not done all the good that it should have done; then I will delve into this matter. Firstly, I would like to thank the members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group who have participated in the Committee of Inquiry: Margarita Pérez, Javier Lasarte and Antonio Hurtado. [[Applauds]] Comrades, you've done a great job. I cannot forget also Pedro Saura, who was the one who carried the baton at the beginning of the Commission itself. It has been many hours of work, many shared reflections, many documents analysed and our work is in the document presented, in the negotiations held and in the proposals incorporated in the final opinion. I have to say that the Socialist Group has managed to incorporate all the proposals and conclusions it has put forward in its day, and we have managed to do so by negotiating and agreeing with the rest of the groups, because this, ladies and gentlemen, is the policy. In short, what we can draw from the Committee of Inquiry is that in the management of the financial crisis many things have failed, almost everything has failed: firstly, the managers of the entities, whether they were political or not; secondly, the supervisors, including the Executive, and, thirdly, the financial institutions themselves with the austerity policies that imposed on us. Our proposals are aimed at improving governance and supervision and at establishing foresight mechanisms that allow us not to repeat the mistakes of the past and that a new financial crisis does not have the economic and social cost of the past. They are also in the line of maximising the recovery of the resources invested, either through disinvestment in Bankia or by incorporating tax measures that were already introduced into the budgets that were rejected a few weeks ago in this House. Progress has been made in recent months. Transpositions have been approved that were necessary to improve consumer protection, the Real Estate Credit Act was passed at last week's plenary session and we are making progress in the creation of the macroprudential authority, which is positive and will help limit the economic impact in the face of future crises. What is not understandable is that citizens today show their anger and their beating and that, when it came to negotiating, I would not want to negotiate anything to improve the text or try to incorporate measures that they have shown today. We were even told to the rest of the groups that the initial text was already good for them and that there was no need to add or remove anything. Some of us understand that citizens have put us here to solve their problems and not to use them as a bold weapon, which is what Citizens have been doing in recent weeks. Therefore, with their behavior and overperformance, the only thing they are doing is losing credibility. Perhaps they should have spent more time raising the phone and trying to negotiate to agree on some of their actions that they use to tweet or prepare interventions. They could have negotiated and made further progress; indeed, as other speakers have already said, the climate was predisposed to improve the text, and those who did so have succeeded in approving our proposals. Needless to say, we will vote in favour of the opinion. Although we obviously do not share a hundred percent of it, we believe it is a good text. I would also like to thank the work of the Commission's lawyers, Luis Miranda and Manuel Alba, who have done a great job, as well as that of the Chamber's technical staff and that of the house's own tachographs, who have spent many hours in the Commission. I would also like to thank the other members of the Commission and, in particular, their chairman, who have made the task very easy for us. In conclusion, I would like to say that it has been a pride to be able to represent the Socialist Group in the last three years and the millions of voters who trusted in our project. It has been a privilege to share many good and bad moments with all of you. I'm sure we've all learned a lot from it. I would like to say to the people who are seeing us that the Socialist Group is about solving problems, not creating them, to defend the interests of the majority and not electoral interests. [[Applauds]] That's why, comrades and companions, although I don't know who or who we'll be from April 28 here, I'm sure we'll be so many more. All I have to do is say good-bye, give them good-days and wish all of you a lot of luck, and you, comrades, a lot of strength. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u121	For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Paniagua Núñez has the floor. [[Rumors]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u122	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I have very little time to summarise the conclusions of this Commission, i.e. I recommend that everyone read the opinion -331 folios - and the particular votes, especially ours, which I assure you is the most reliable, but I am going to comment on some of the things that have been said. Most of the particular votes speak of the real estate bubble, but, gentlemen, our crisis was caused by a credit bubble, neither real estate nor financial. We had already had real-estate bubbles that burst with absorptive consequences, but the data I now offer you make the origin clear. With this country's banking close to 100 per cent, we get a private debt of 210% on GDP when the risk limit is 133,700 billion more; limit, by the way, exceeded in 2004. The need for state funding came to exceed 9% two years in a row when we had never crossed the 3% barrier before, because a devaluation of our currency was forced, three times the limit, ladies and gentlemen; a limit that, by the way, we crossed again in 2004. The banking risk in the construction, promotion and housing sector reached 60% of the total. Does this concentration seem normal to you? Doesn't that sound too risky? Growth, by the way, also from 2004, was really disproportionate, exceeding reasonable limits. Secondly, some groups criticize the rescue of the bank. Why was financial institutions rescued? At present, the financial sector's assets, after the thinning of all these years, account for three times the Spanish GDP, 300% of GDP. Do you think this country could bear the fall of a sector like the financial one? On the contrary. Many witnesses have told us that if the ransom had been carried out long before it would have cost us much less. Another additional advantage is that the economic crisis would not have been so deep; the banks would have supported the recovery since 2009, as they did since 2012, rather than helping companies and families close and break, as they did, because of their situation. And don't tell me that the beneficiaries of this crisis have been the banks, because right now the banks have the same offices and employees as in 1985, thirty-five years ago, and they have gone from 30 billion won in 2007 to the losses they had, for example, at the end of 2017. European representatives in this Commission have also highlighted what we did in 2012. The restructuring and recovery of the sector and, therefore, of the Spanish economy have brought to value, as always, the work carried out by the People's Party in the Government. Then there is the subject of the politicization of boxes. We are clear that the main ones responsible were, firstly, the managers of the financial institutions; secondly, the supervisory and regulatory bodies, in particular the Banco de España and, thirdly, the socialist government of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, which, by the way, ruled from 2004. [[Applauds]] And since the onset of the crisis in 2007, those responsible for what has happened remain the same. First, the managers of institutions, some for trying to extend the losses throughout the company through the issuance of preference and subordinates and for disproportionate execution of failed mortgage transactions. For what? To fill up with properties they couldn't manage? By the way, these are the main reasons for the reputational problem of the financial institutions that they maintain today. Secondly, the supervisory and regulatory bodies did not resolve the crisis of financial institutions and allowed the massive sale of preference to retail customers. And thirdly, the socialist government did not want to solve the problem, as Mr Solbes acknowledged here in the Commission; they had means and had money: means, as we saw, with the Guindos I and II decrees in 2012, and money, I remind you that we had a debt on GDP of 36% in those years, that is, we had a lot of room for action. I would like to express my thanks to the President of the Commission and thank so many people for their cooperation and dedication, in particular to the lawyers, to Luis Manuel, to my group colleagues who have participated in the Commission, to the President for her work, and to the other groups who have worked generously and with great effort in this Commission, except for the Citizens' Group. By the way, I am glad to see you, Mr Roldán, because we have not seen you almost in the Commission, not even in drawing up the opinion. [[Applauds]] And I ask you, Mr Roldán, why do you request the creation of this Commission if you have not listened to the representatives; why, if the report you have submitted had it written before the Commission. They lie in their arguments; their arguments have not been validated in this Commission, quite the contrary. If that were the case, all the boxes would have broken, and if that were the case, there would be no bank that would have broken too. It is absolutely true, absolutely true, and the vast majority of those present here have denied their arguments. We have all endeavoured to reach agreements, all but you, who up until the last day have had disloyal behavior and use in your proposals and conclusions as always that neighborhood language and sabbatical to which we are accustomed, that usual bad education. [[Rumors]] Their way of speaking and the content of what they throw at public opinion all they do is generate confrontation, generate populism and generate extremism, and all because they think it's their way of growing in politics, because it brings them political revenue and that's enough for you. You said that you came to solve the problems of Spanish politics, but you are exclusively dedicated to criticizing what the People's Party and the Socialist Party have done. [[Rumors]] But it is contradictory your message, Mr. Roldán, because if you support... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u123	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u124	... what this country has done in the last forty years, how can they criticize everything that the People's Party and the Socialist Party does if we are the ones who have built it? How can it be?
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u125	Mr Paniagua, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u126	Until they step forward, they will not be a government party. I'm done, Madam President. I end by thanking La Carroza and my group, the People's Parliamentary Group, to which I deeply admire. As an illustrious palento said and who did so much for Spain at a crucial moment, Professor Fuentes Quintana, I do not believe in the values that are not professed, the values must be incorporated into life itself, and I hope that those values that we speak of here will be applied in our actions in the next legislature, Spain will do much better. And I finish, President, by paying tribute to you for your behavior during this very convulsive legislature. I believe that the assessment is shared by most groups. Thank you very much, this time in all sense, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u127	Thank you very much. The votes will begin in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u128	Before voting, the first secretary will make an institutional statement. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Every 19 February the day is celebrated against LGBTIphobia in sport. This tribute exists thanks to Justin Fashanu, the first professional footballer in history to openly declare himself gay in 1990. While it is true that the LGBTI collective has made progress in recent years in its struggle for equality, non-discrimination and the defence of diversity, sport remains a space that on many occasions resists the acceptance and promotion of diversity through sexual orientation or gender identity. In Spain there is no data on the personal situation of gays, lesbians, transsexuals and bisexuals in sport. There are very few sportspeople of recognized prestige who make public their sexual orientation for fear of the consequences that this may entail, while counting sports entities promote sport among the LGTBI collective. In the middle of the twenty-first century, we regret that situations of discrimination based on sexual orientation, gender identity or expression continue to occur in any of the sporting events. Therefore, it is necessary to enhance sport as a tool of transformation and leverage to build a fairer, more inclusive and more respectful society. Sport needs to be understood as a friendly space that offers LGBTI people resources for inclusive, safe and discrimination-free practice. Recently, ladies and gentlemen, the first Congress on Sport and Diversity was held in Madrid, in which the participants agreed on the following final declaration: First, to denounce and penalize the social behaviours of LGBTIphobics, sexists, xenophobics and discriminatorys in the sport environment. Secondly, to end any expression of violence, whether physical or verbal, in sports spaces, playgrounds and stands, for any cause and especially for issues related to sexual and gender diversity. Thirdly, to equate the public recognition of female athletes with that of male athletes, as well as the prizes awarded in any sporting event. Fourthly, to ensure the sporting practice of trans and intersex people, according to their sex sense, protecting their rights and privacy, and ensuring, especially in elite sport, a regulation that ensures the conditions of equality. Fifthly, to recognize and place the diversity of affective sex, gender expression and identity and sexual orientation as enriching elements. Sixthly, use inclusive language that avoids discriminatory expressions based on sex, gender, sexual orientation and gender expression and identity. Seventh, make real the recognition of the rights of LGBTI people in the field of sport in Spain. And eighth, include in the regulation of all sports activities the values of diversity, equal treatment and non-discrimination. All these actions seek to achieve a final objective: access to sport for different people on equal terms as an activity that empowers us, improves our life, teaches us to relate and enriches our society with its values. The Congress of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, shares these objectives and undertakes to promote the above-mentioned actions and thereby to promote policies that respect diversity and promote inclusive and tolerant sport. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u130	The second secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u131	Thank you, President. Institutional statement on the theft of babies. [[Rumors]] According to the reports submitted, the theft of babies and the forced disappearance of minors have had an impact at different stages by separating thousands of minors from their families to give them up for adoption or to register them as biological children. Some took place under the regime of the Franco dictatorship and others took place after the adoption of the Constitution and the laws that emerge from it, which are the laws that make up our rule of law. Following the adoption of the Constitution, the largest number of complaints was concentrated around the 1980s and spread over time, reaching the early 2000s. As the Ombudsman's annual report in the first half of 2017 notes among its recommendations, the public authorities are obliged to give a legal response to the victims and to make an effort, within their competence, to clarify the facts reported, as well as to give them all the necessary support to alleviate the anguish caused by the fact that they cannot meet their biological family. This problem has received the attention of international bodies such as the UN Committee on Enforced Disappearances, the UN rapporteur Pablo de Greiff, the UN Working Group on Enforced Disappearances and a mission of the European Parliament's Committee on Petitions. Under international human rights law, victims have the right to full reparation for their violated rights. Among these rights, the principle of comprehensive reparation establishes the right to public recognition of this drama. We regret that we have not been able to obtain the passage of the law in this legislature, in which, however, there has been progress in reaching important consensuses that we will work to maintain, especially because victims need effective tools in investigating the truth in the disappearances of minors that have repeatedly occurred in this country, with the consequent pain and suffering for the people affected. Article 10.1 of the Spanish Constitution proclaims the right to one's own personal identity and to the free development of that personality, the dignity of the person and the inviolable rights inherent in him as the foundation of the political and democratic order of our country. In view of the persistent situation, we recall the treaties and conventions that are part of our legal system and therefore of binding compliance, such as article 8 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, which recognizes all those parents, brothers and sisters and other relatives affected by the human right to family life, without external interference. Article 9 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child also provides that States parties shall ensure that the child is not separated from his or her parents against the will of the parents, except where determined by the competent authorities. And the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance, signed by Spain, provides in its article 25, devoted to children, that States parties shall take the necessary measures to prevent and punish criminal offences. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for your attention. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u132	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u133	We shall then proceed to the votes and finally the President will address a few words to the House. We vote, first, the Royal Decree-Law 3/2019, of 8 February, on urgent measures in the field of science, technology, innovation and university. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 plus 2 telematics votes, 342; 340 plus 2 telematics votes, 342.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u134	The royal decree-law is validated. [[Applauds]] The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 plus 2 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 149 plus 1 telematics vote, 150; against, 125; abstentions, 66 plus 1 telematics vote, 67.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u135	Consequently, it is dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 4/2019, OF 22 FEBRUARY, OF THE SPECIAL REGIME OF THE BALEAR ISLANDS. [[File number 130/000059]]
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u136	Royal Decree-Law 4/2019, of 22 February, of the special regime of the Balearic Islands. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 306 abstentions, 32.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u137	The royal decree-law is validated. [[Applauds]] The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 136 against, 197 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u138	Consequently, it is not dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u139	We now vote, ladies and gentlemen, on the amendment to the entire alternative text to the draft law amending the consolidated text of the Law on Property Transfers and Documented Legal Acts, approved by the Royal Legislative Decree 1/1993 of 24 September, from the Royal Decree-Law 17/2018 of 8 November, submitted by the People's Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 plus 2 telematics votes, 342; 163; 172 plus 2 telematics votes, 174; abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u140	It is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u141	We continue, ladies and gentlemen, with the agreement to deal directly and in one reading with the proposal for an organic law on the transfer of ownership and powers from the AP-9 to the Autonomous Community of Galicia. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 plus 2 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 307 plus 2 telematics votes, 309; against, 32.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u142	Consequently, the agreement on direct and read-only processing by the plenary of the above-mentioned proposal for a law is approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, we moved on to the opinion of the Committee of Inquiry on the financial crisis in Spain and the financial assistance programme. We're going to vote the private votes. Particular vote No 2 by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 6 against, 313 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u144	It's rejected. Private vote number 4, of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 16 against, 253 abstentions, 71.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u145	It's rejected. Private vote No. 3, of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 33 against, 292 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u146	It's rejected. Private vote number 1 of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 70 against, 254 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u147	It's rejected. Special vote No 6 by the Socialist Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 82 against, 236 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u148	It's rejected. Particular vote No. 5 by the People's Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 136 against, 189 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u149	They're rejected. We shall vote on the opinion. Firstly, the vote on conclusions 2 and 4 by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress in paragraph IV, regulatory bodies. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 140 against, 185 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u150	It's rejected. Vote on the remainder of the opinion, incorporating the technical corrections distributed. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour 308 against 32.
ParlaMint-ES_2019-02-28-CD190228.u151	It was adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, today concludes the last plenary session of this XII Legislature. With your permission, I would like to say a few words of sincere thanks, first of all, to all the members of the Bureau, to Don Ignacio Prendes, Don Micaela Navarro, Don Rosa Romero, Don Gloria Elizo, Don Alicia Sánchez-Camacho, Don Juan Luis Gordo, Don Marcelo Exposito and Don Patricia Reyes. It has been a pleasure to share with all of you these years of work at the Bureau and I am very grateful to you, thank you that I extend to the speakers, to those who are and those who have been in this legislature. I would also like to thank all your ladies and gentlemen, each and every one of you, on behalf of the Bureau and on my own behalf, for all the consideration and support that you have given us during this period. It was a real honour to hold this presidency, knowing that it had the confidence of its ladies and gentlemen. Throughout this time I have always tried to be the president of everyone. In the office of the President there hangs a painting of a painter, Asterio Mañanós, from 1908, in which a session of this Congress is reflected. The only women present there occupied seats, but it was in the guest gallery; today we are many women who sit, fortunately, in these seats and, personally, I am proud to be one of them. [[Applauds]] I haven't taken any time, but I'll be brief. During these nearly three years we have experienced complicated moments and I am aware that we have all made a great effort. I thank all your ladies and gentlemen for that effort and for all the work they have done. I would also like to have a special reminder to those Members who have been and who no longer hold their seats, who cannot be here today and to Mr Francisco Molinero, who was about to lose his life. [[Applauds]] I would also like to acknowledge and thank the commitment, dedication and professionalism of all the officials of this House, starting with its Secretary-General, without whose effective work it would not have been possible to undertake all the work that has been carried out during this parliamentary term. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]] Gratitude I extend to journalists, photographers and all the staff who collaborate with the Congress of Deputies. Also those who are right now in the cafeteria. [[Applauds]] I'm sure there are things we could have done better and I apologize for the mistakes that you may have made. Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, occupies a central position in our democratic system and its vitality must serve to promote political action aimed at responding to the needs of all citizens, because our main mission is nothing more than to try to improve the lives of citizens. Parliamentary work is essential to strengthen the confidence of all Spaniards in their institutions and this will be further strengthened if we strive to show the respect that we owe to each other as representatives of all the citizens of our country; a respect and affection that we have been able to maintain despite the dialectical confrontation inherent in the political debate. And since I cannot say goodbye without referring to the commemoration of the 40th anniversary of the Spanish Constitution, I would like to recall and make mine for this occasion and for this closing of the legislature the words of one of the constituent parents in recalling the process of drawing up our Magna Charter. He said: Thinking of those days and that work of all, with the best that each one could give, one can think without fear of being wrong - to be wrong - that it was worth it; it was worth it for you, for Spain and for the Spaniards. Thank you so much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen, on the ground]] The meeting rose. It was one and twenty-five minutes in the afternoon.
